K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M and Mrs F bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  Mr M 
and Mrs F say the cover was sold by post.  But Halifax says it was sold during a face to face 
meeting. 
Although this was a joint mortgage, the policy  provided cover for Mr M (not Mrs F) for 
accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject  to its exclusions and limitations. It offered 
to repay  £900  a month towards Mr M and Mrs Fs mortgage balance  in the event of a 
successful claim  for up to two years  for each  claim.  At the point of sale,  it cost £54.54 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as an account  manager. I understand  he was entitled  to 
some sick pay, but it was not clear  how much. Mr M had been with his employer for two 
years when he applied  for the mortgage  and so I think hed have had some redundancy 
entitlement. 
Theres some confusion  as to whether Mr M and Mrs F  had any savings. I can see that 
when it was investigating this complaint, Halifax noted Mr M told it he had substantial 
investments. In the PPI questionnaire,  Mrs F said they had savings that were the equivalent 
of less than one months salary of Mr Ms gross  on target earnings. When they completed  
the mortgage application form, Mr M and Mrs F said they had no savings or investments.   
I can see in the PPI questionnaire  that Mrs F said she was pregnant when the cover  was 
sold, and that she was working  on a fixed-term contract. She thought  both of those things 
would have made it more  difficult  for a claim to be made.  However, as the cover  was set up 
to cover Mr M only,  Mrs Fs circumstances wouldnt have had an impact  on any claim Mr M 
made. 
I understand Mr M was in good health  when he cover was sold.  
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account was closed in 2003.  
Mr M and Mrs Fs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr M and Mrs Fs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M and Mrs F 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr M and 
Mrs Fs representatives believe  there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN53048482The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely Mr M and Mrs F could  
make a successful claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by 
the low claims  ratio.  The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Halifax  should 
have told Mr M and Mrs F about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and Mrs 
F and the impact  they would have had on their chances of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr M and Mrs F received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr M and Mrs Fs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Mrs Fs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN53048483There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr M and Mrs Fs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr M and Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN53048484-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr M and Mrs F with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs F sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M 
and Mrs F, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent Mr M and Mrs F 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and Mrs F 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr M and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr M and Mrs F know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
It looks as though when they applied for their mortgage, Mr M and Mrs F had more than one 
appointment with Halifax. I can see from the original application form that they initially  left the 
PPI section blank.  So it looks like they agreed  to take PPI out at a subsequent appointment. 
I know Mr M and Mrs F said that PPI was sold to them by post. But looking at the 
commencement date of the cover,  I think  its more likely to have been sold face to face. And 
as they ostensibly refused the cover in the first instance, I think  theyd have known they 
could refuse  it when it was offered at a later date. 
Those representing Mr M and Mrs F argued  that PPI was presented as part of the mortgage 
package. However,  I cant reasonably say that could have been  the case  if Mr M and Mrs F 
didnt initially  agree to take the cover  out. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr M and Mrs F knew  the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats because the cover was sold during a meeting at 
which Mr M and Mrs Fs personal circumstances would have been discussed.  I think  they 
could have reasonably thought Halifax was making  a tailored recommendation after taking 
account of their circumstances. This means  Halifax  had to advise Mr M and Mrs F with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the electronic evidence suggests that 
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Ref: DRN53048485Mr M and Mrs F.  For example, I can see some  rudimentary questions  were asked about Mr 
Ms employment circumstances and health. But although some  questions were  asked  about  
his wider circumstances,  I dont think Halifax did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For 
example, I cannot  see any enquiries  were made about their existing means or Mr Ms work  
benefits. 
 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr M and Mrs F given  their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M and Mrs F, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr M and Mrs F had a need  for the policy  Mr M was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr M and Mrs Fs finances  would be put under strain if he was not 
working. The cover would have lasted for up to two years, so I think this would have 
exceeded any sickness and redundancy benefits Mr M was entitled to. And if Mr M 
and Mrs F did have  savings, they could  have used those funds for their other 
essential expenditure at what would have no doubt  been a very worrying  time if Mr M 
was out of work.  
-Mr M and Mrs F stated in the PPI questionnaire that they were financially stretched at 
the time.  But looking at their stated expenditure in the mortgage application form, the 
evidence doesnt suggest PPI would  have been  unaffordable for them.  
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable.  There was nothing  
about Mr Ms employment or occupation which would have made it difficult  for him to 
claim. And Im not aware of any pre-existing medical conditions that could have 
affected his ability  to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim, 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr M and Mrs Fs circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M and Mrs F were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr M was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr M and Mrs 
F would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
Ref: DRN53048486But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr M and Mrs F agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M and Mrs F Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr M and Mrs F all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr M and Mrs Fs representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr M and 
Mrs Fs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr M and Mrs Fs representative  considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M and Mrs F about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr M and Mrs Fs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr M and Mrs F suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr M and Mrs F? To what extent  did 
Mr M and Mrs F suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M and 
Mrs F. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
M and Mrs F suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether or 
not Mr M and Mrs F would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr M and Mrs F, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
Ref: DRN53048487In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M and Mrs F suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr M and Mrs F would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mr M and Mrs F say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M and Mrs F had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
M was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr M and Mrs Fs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M and Mrs F knew they would  have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact premium  at the point 
Mr M and Mrs F applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr M and Mrs F 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered  their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M and Mrs F would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr M and Mrs F would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr M and 
Mrs Fs expectations  about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M and Mrs F thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
Ref: DRN53048488The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M and Mrs F pause for thought   and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M and Mrs F from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr M and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr M was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr M wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  he didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M and 
Mrs F might reasonably  have  expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr M and Mrs F from taking out the policy,  Mr M and Mrs F, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr M and Mrs F had known they could only claim for disability if Mr M was not only unable 
to do his job or any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr M and 
Mrs Fs circumstances  and the limited other means  they had to make their repayments  if Mr 
M wasnt  working, on balance, I still they would have been  interested  in taking  out the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr M and Mrs F that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 24 months  was most likely a longer period than Mr M would have received full sick pay 
for and his statutory  redundancy  entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M and Mrs F would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr M be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M and Mrs F would  still have  taken out the policy.  The policy  was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr M was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
Ref: DRN53048489than not Mr M and Mrs F would  have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr M and Mrs Fs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M and Mrs F would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr M and Mrs 
Fs circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
and Mrs F found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr M and Mrs F believe the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M and Mrs F in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr M and Mrs F compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M and Mrs F think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs F, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1999 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN530484810Ive also thought about the approach Mr M and Mrs Fs representative says a court might 
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and Mrs F and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr M and Mrs F in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5304848