K821x#15complaint
Mrs P feels  that Lloyds Bank Plc has treated her unfairly in relation to transactions she made 
to rent a holiday cottage. 
Background
In June 2020 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to uphold  the 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached my 
final decision. Both parties have responded to say they disagree with my provisional 
decision. Lloyds  has then changed  its mind  again and accepted  my provisional  decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In response to my provisional decision Lloyds initially changed its position  and said it did 
consider raising  a chargeback and pointed to what it says is evidence  of this. It goes on to 
say the option  of a chargeback could not be considered as it did not fall within the scope  of 
the regulations  to do so. However Ive considered the scheme and seen nothing  to prevent 
a chargeback being raised in these  circumstances. So, again, Ive questioned Lloyds 
position on this matter pointing to the specific chargeback reason code and scheme rules. 
After giving it a second  extension to respond Lloyds has now come back to me again and 
accepted it could have raised a chargeback as Ive set out and accepted  my 
recommendation that it should make a payment  to Mrs P. 
Ive considered Mrs Ps response. She has again  described the state  of the cottage she 
stayed in and how the brochure  description of it isnt supported  by what Visit England has 
said. I do not dispute Mrs Ps arguments on either  issue. She also describes how this has 
been a very difficult  process for her and shes worried  about  the cost of the accommodation. 
I appreciate Mrs Ps position  on the matter. But she did stay at the accommodation for the 
period she was due to. As Ive described this is a decision  regarding Lloyds and how it has 
treated her. And unfortunately  for Mrs P shes  not said anything that persuades me to 
change my position on the matter for the reasons given in my provisional decision.
Mrs P is at liberty not to accept this decision. However if she doesnt  then Lloyds isnt bound 
to pay the remedy  Ive set out.
Although Mrs P disagrees with my provisional decision she has not persuaded me I should 
change my stance. Lloyds after a somewhat drawn  out correspondence  and efforts  on my 
part has finally  accepted  it should  have done  better.
Consequently, I direct Lloyds to pay Mrs P £150  for not following good  practice  and trying 
the chargeback  process as it should.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I uphold  this 
complaint about  Lloyds  Bank Plc and direct it to pay Mrs P £150 within 28 days of being told 
by this service that she has accepted my decision.
Ref: DRN50584572Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN50584573COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs P feels that Lloyds Bank Plc has treated her unfairly in relation to transactions she made  to rent a 
holiday cottage.  
background
Mrs P paid for a holiday cottage  through two transactions on her credit card with Lloyds. The first was 
in January 2018 for £237.66 and the second was in May 2018 for £412.34. She paid a property  rental  
agent who then paid the cottage owner. Whilst staying at the cottage (7-14 July 2018) she says she 
discovered a dead bird, mould,  over grown plants and other issues with the cottage which meant it fell 
beneath the standards  she was expecting. So she complained to the property rental  agent  (who didnt 
agree with her).
So she complained to Lloyds  to get her money back. Lloyds looked  at her complaint and said that she 
couldnt hold Lloyds responsible as section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 didnt apply  as she 
wasnt in the correct type of financial relationship in the transactions made. Mrs P didnt agree so she 
complained here.
The investigator felt Lloyds had treated Mrs P fairly in relation to the section 75 complaint.  Mrs P 
doesnt agree. So this complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
In the interests of fairness to both parties I am issuing this provisional  decision to allow both parties to 
fully understand  my position  so that they have a fair opportunity to understand and respond to points 
which I think  are key to this complaint that, so far, theyve  not had opportunity to address.
There are two possible  avenues  for this dispute to follow, namely a Section 75 complaint under  the 
relevant legislation  or via the credit card chargeback  process which  is under the chargeback scheme  
rules administered  by the credit card provider (which is not Lloyds).
Mrs P has said she doesnt  know really  what section 75 is and Im not persuaded  its been properly  
explained to her. The general  effect  of section 75 is that if Mrs P has a claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring  that claim against 
Lloyds, provided  certain conditions are met. In essence Lloyds would be equally responsible as the 
supplier if the conditions are met. One of those  conditions is that there must  be a debtor-creditor-
supplier (D-C-S) relationship.
Mrs P paid the money for the cottage  to a property  rental agent. The agent  then paid the cottage 
owner. Mrs P used her credit  card to pay the agent which is a separate entity to the cottage owner.  
This means  there is no valid D-C-S relationship in relation to the cottage she rented because Mrs P 
didnt pay the cottage owner directly (she paid the agent).
.
Mrs P may well argue  that she shouldnt  be expected to understand the implications of paying  a third 
party. And I can well understand her frustration both with the technicality which means  that shes not 
Ref: DRN50584574got any chance  of getting her money back through section 75. But that doesnt mean I can say Lloyds 
should refund her under section 75, or that its done something  wrong by not telling  her about  the D-
C-S implications of paying a third party.  Lloyds  wasnt under any obligation to do this. All in all, Ive not 
seen enough to make me think that Lloyds  was wrong to turn down Mrs Ps section  75 claim. 
The chargeback process is administered by the scheme provider (not Lloyds) and provides a process 
for banks to recover funds for its account holders  in certain situations. Broadly  speaking businesses 
should decide  whether  to make  a chargeback  or not. If they do, then it must do so properly. The 
merchant then receives that chargeback request and may agree to refund  payment or may contest 
the chargeback. If it contests, then the bank (Lloyds here) should  consider this and then if it still feels 
the chargeback  is warranted  then it can take the chargeback further through the chargeback  process.
When asked about whether  it considered  going through the chargeback process, Lloyds has 
responded by saying the transaction itself took place  on 8 January  2018,  however, the customer  first 
came to us in August  2018.   A chargeback was therefore not an option as the (Chargeback scheme ) 
regulations confirm that a customer has 120 (days) to raise a dispute  for us to consider this option.
Lloyds is saying that by the time she complained to it she was out of time to complain according the 
scheme regulations.  Ive considered the scheme rules  issued  on 10 May 2016  and those  on 01 May 
2018 regarding the chargeback for goods not being as described.  Both of which  have the following 
wording:
Time Frame. One of the following:
 120 days  from when  the services ceased with a maximum of 540 calendar days from the
transaction settlement  date for issues of interruption of ongoing services
 Between 15 and 120 calendar dates from the transaction settlement date
 Between 15 and 120 calendar dates from the delivery/cancellation date of the goods or services
So it is clear  to me that Lloyds is incorrect in its position regarding timeframes  for raising chargebacks. 
This is because only one of the time frame conditions  needs to be met. And it is clear that when Mrs P 
brought the issue to Lloyds in early August  2018  that she was well within time because  she stayed  at 
the cottage  between  7-14 July 2018 and that was the dates of the delivery of the goods or services  as 
per the third part of the time frame section quoted above. She could  not have known there was a 
problem with the cottage  until she arrived at it in July 2018.
So Lloyds has made a mistake in not considering raising a chargeback in this case. And as a 
consequence I must  consider what would  have happened had it not made that mistake.
Mrs P has provided  a significant amount of evidence from the time about the state  of the cottage 
including photos from the time.  She has also provided  the agents responses to her complaint.
I note that Mrs P has provided a letter from Visit England (dated 28 August 2018) which  states that 
the agents brochure says the cottage hadnt been assessed by Visit England. It goes  on to say I can 
confirm (the cottage) has never been visited by Visit England Assessment Services. It goes on to say 
that it is going  to pursue  the matter and takes the use of its logos and signs very seriously.
Lloyds has also provided its file on the matter. In it is what appears to be an email from Lloyds to the 
property agent dated 26 November  2018. In it this email Lloyds says (in reference to the Visit England 
letter) that As a result the cottage has been misrepresented on the brochure  as being  approved with 
a four star rose rating by Visit England. It goes on to point to what  Mrs P has said about the state  of 
the accommodation.
Considering all of this, on balance, I think Lloyds would have considered  that there was a reasonable  
prospect of success in raising the chargeback and so would have done so.
I next need  to consider how the property agent would  have responded. I have seen its responses to 
Mrs P on the matter but acknowledge it might have reacted differently  to a chargeback being raised 
Ref: DRN50584575by Lloyds. Especially had the chargeback process gone through all its stages within the chargeback 
scheme. I can see that the property agent  has noted that when Mrs P contacted  it whilst at the 
cottage she was offered  alternative accommodation or a refund  but didnt take those  options. The 
agent goes on to say that had Mrs P contacted it whilst at the cottage it would have sent a 
representative to the cottage to assess the situation.  It acknowledges that Mrs P said due to the 
circumstances she could not contact it whilst at the cottage.
It seems likely that there was misrepresentation by the agent. But it is clear Mrs P did have some 
benefit from staying in the cottage and it appears she chose not to take alternative accommodation 
when offered it. Considering the complexity  of the situation, the differing views  on the matter  and 
considering the time elapsed  since from when the chargeback should  have been raised there is no 
way of assessing what  exactly  would  have happened had the chargeback been raised and what  
would have happened from that point onward. Particularly as its likely the chargeback would  have 
been rebutted  by the agent throughout the full process.
But Lloyds did make  a mistake and Mrs P has lost out on not having a chargeback pursued against 
the property  agent. And now we can never assess how that process would  have played out. So, I 
think it fair that Lloyds redress Mrs P for that loss of opportunity  to go through that process. I think 
£150 fairly represents  that lost opportunity to Mrs P.
So I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint  and direct Lloyds to pay Mrs P £150  for not 
following the chargeback process as it should.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am currently minded to uphold the complaint against  Lloyds Bank UK 
Plc. I now invite both parties to give me their final thoughts on the matter within  the timeline described  
above.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5058457