K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him packaged bank 
accounts. 
He says that he wasnt aware he was paying  a monthly fee for his account and doesnt recall 
agreeing to his account being upgraded to a packaged account.  Mr M says he was unaware  
that benefits came with the accounts  some of which, he says he didnt need. 
Mr M has also complained that his account  was changed to a fee-free account that came  
with fee-paying Travel  and Tech  packs,  without his consent or awareness.
background
Mr Ms account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free  account
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account  in May 1998
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions Active account in October 2009
Changed to a fee-free account  with fee-paying Tech and Travel packs added due to 
the withdrawal of the Additions Active account  in January 2017
Barclays said that our service was unable  to consider Mr Ms complaint about the sale of the 
Additions Active account because it said hed complained  too late about it. One of our 
adjudicators considered what  Mr M and Barclays had said and they agreed that our service 
was unable to consider  the complaint about  the Additions Active account. Mr M did not 
disagree with this.
An adjudicator then assessed  Mr Ms complaint  about the sale of the Additions  account and 
the change to a fee-free  account with the Travel and Tech packs  added. And she concluded 
that Barclays had not mis-sold the Additions account  and she didnt think Barclays had done  
anything wrong  when it withdrew  the Additions  Active account.
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. As our 
adjudicator already established that we are unable to consider the complaint about the sale 
of the Additions  Active  account and as Mr M did not disagree with this assessment, I will only 
address the sale of the Additions  account and the withdrawal of the Additions Active  
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive taken this into account 
when considering this complaint.
Ref: DRN56955612Additions account
Ive started by considering whether Mr M was given a fair choice. Mr M says that he does not 
recall agreeing to the Additions  account  and therefore says that the account was upgraded 
without his consent. Whereas Barclays says that it didnt automatically upgraded Mr Ms 
account. Barclays has only been able to provide limited information about the sale, but given 
how long ago it took place, I think this is understandable.
In response to the adjudicators assessments, Mr M said that the adjudicator  had effectively 
disregarded any mitigation he had offered and there appeared to be a blanket siding with 
Barclays. But I cant simply accept that the Additions account mustve  been mis-sold purely 
because Mr M doesnt remember agreeing to it. Instead where evidence is incomplete and 
matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to make my decision based on what I think  is 
most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything Ive seen and been told by both 
parties. 
Although Mr M doesnt recall agreeing to the Additions account, the upgrade  happened over 
21 years  ago  so I think its understandable if Mr M cant remember much  from the time.  
But, having  considered the evidence that Barclays has been  able to provide, I think its more  
likely that Mr M agreed to it but he just doesnt remember  doing  so. I say this because,  at the 
time the account  cost £5 per month and the main benefit it provided  was an automatic 
overdraft facility (although  its not clear what that amount was as it was so long ago).  And by 
having the account, the first £100 of the overdraft was interest free and Mr M would avoid 
paying a £5 overdraft usage  fee that was applied to fee-free accounts. 
Looking at Mr Ms account statements from the time, prior to the sale he was typically  paying 
around £30 per month in unarranged overdraft charges. But after the account  was changed 
to an Additions account, he was generally  overdrawn  more frequently and for larger amounts 
- yet he would typically be charged the £5 account  fee plus around £20 in unarranged 
overdraft charges. So looking at how Mr M operated his account I think  its more likely that 
he agreed to upgrade  the account  to try and reduce  the amount he was paying in overdraft 
charges, rather than it being  the case that Barclays upgraded the account without his 
permission.
Based on the evidence  that is available, Im not persuaded that Barclays recommended the 
Additions account to Mr M. This means it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But even 
if it had recommended he upgrade his account, based on the potential overdraft savings, I 
dont think this wouldve  been unreasonable. 
Mr M has listed a number  of benefits  that he says he couldnt  use  such  as breakdown 
cover, travel  insurance and household cover. And questions why would he agree to pay a 
monthly fee for an account if he cant use the benefits it provides. But based on what  I know 
about the Additions account at the time of upgrade, none of these were  benefits of the 
account. So not needing those benefits  wouldnt have affected  his decision whether to 
upgrade or not.
Ref: DRN56955613Barclays had to give Mr M important information about the account. And because Mr M has 
no recollection of agreeing to the account and Barclays  cant provide much information  from 
the time either, I accept its possible that Mr M might not have been given all the important 
information about the account at the time.  
However, Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve been put off from agreeing  to the account  
had he been given more information about  it. I say this because  it came as a package,  so Mr 
M could not pick and choose what it came with. And as I think  its likely he agreed  to it for the 
overdraft benefits  alone, I doubt  that he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it had 
Barclays given him more information  about  the benefits  the other benefits such as 
cardholder protection,  purchase protection, will writing service, legal advice line and £5,000 
life assurance.
I appreciate that the benefits  provided  with the account changed over time. And some 
benefits mayve later been added which Mr M may not have wanted.  But this doesnt mean 
that Barclays was wrong to have sold the Additions account to Mr M when it did. Therefore, 
taking everything into account, I dont think  the Additions account was mis-sold. 
Withdrawal of the Additions Active account
As explained by the adjudicator, Barclays decided to withdraw the Additions  Active  account 
from its range of packaged accounts.  This was a commercial decision it was entitled to 
make, but in doing so, it had to provide the affected  account holders with notice of this and 
explain what  would happen  to their account.
The Additions Active account came with a range of benefits, including  a number of insurance  
benefits. So Barclays took the decision to change the affected  accounts to a fee free account 
but to add Tech and Travel packs to closely match  the existing benefits   which account 
holders could then opt out of should they no longer  want those benefits. 
Barclays has provided us with a copy of a letter sent to Mr M on 29 September 2016. This 
explained that his account was changing  to a Barclays Bank  account  and that he could opt 
out of the Tech and Travel packs  but he had to contact Barclays  by 12 January 2017  if he 
wished to do so. 
Mr M says that he didnt receive  the letter and says that he went into branch  and was told 
that his address couldnt be changed as the property was a new build. However, Barclays 
has provided evidence  to show that the address the letter was sent to was changed on 31 
May 2016 and remained  registered  to that address  until it was later changed in 2018. And 
the address on the letter matches  the same one that was registered  for Mr M, so I think it 
was sent to the correct address.
Barclays has provided copies of other letters  sent to the same address and it has no record  
of any of the letters sent to that address being  returned as undelivered. It says that if mail is 
returned undelivered it will add a marker  to the consumers file. But I cant see that a marker 
was added to Mr Ms file, so I think its likely that the post was not being  returned as 
undelivered.
Ref: DRN56955614Therefore, I think that its more likely  than not that Barclays did send a letter to Mr M and that 
it contained enough information to explain what  options Mr M had regarding  the change  to 
his account. So I cant reasonably conclude  that Barclays has done  anything wrong or acted 
unreasonably in regards to the changes that took place on Mr Ms account in January 2017. I 
therefore dont  think it would be appropriate to require Barclays to refund the fees Mr M paid 
for the packs since then.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr M and I can see he feels  strongly 
about this matter. But I hope I have  been able to explain why Ive not been able to find in his 
favour on this occasion.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5695561