K822xcomplaint
Mr R has complained about the service he received from I.P.M. SIPP  Administration  (IPM)  
who he considers  havent  been  transparent  in their dealings with his pension  scheme.  
Mr R says IPM made unjustified payments to third parties and failed to invest a refund 
issued by cheque  for £2,433 by HMRC.
background
Mr R was a director of his own company and had a company  pension  scheme  a small self 
administered scheme (SSAS). Mr R was both the beneficiary and the principal trustee. One 
of the assets of the scheme  was a commercial  building that Mr Rs company was the tenant 
of.  
In 2015 Mr R was making plans to wind up his company. He wanted to make sure his 
pension arrangements were separated out from the company.  His financial  adviser  
recommended that he transfer the assets  from the SSAS to a self invested  personal pension 
(SIPP) with IPM. By doing this he could simplify the administration of the scheme,  but still 
keep the property as one of the scheme  assets. The adviser  was to manage the additional 
pension assets  within a General Investment Account  (GIA).
The application for the new SIPP and supporting paperwork was sent to IPM in June 2015 
with the instruction that all assets  were to be transferred  from the SSAS to the IPM SIPP. 
The ownership of the property leasehold  was to be transferred in-specie thereby avoiding  
the need for a sale and purchase to complete.
The transfer of the non property assets  was relatively straightforward but the transfer of the 
property didnt complete  until 29 September 2016.  There were many additional external 
complicating factors that slowed the progress down, not least  the fact that the freehold  
changed hands twice during the transfer period.
Mr Rs company had gone into liquidation  on 26 August 2016  but still had a sublease 
agreement in place  for the property until 30 June 2017. Once  the transfer  of the property  had 
taken place, IPM, as the trustees of the SIPP, became the legal owners of the leasehold 
property and responsible for its upkeep and ensuring that it was being managed in the best 
interests of the SIPP. 
The company vacated the property in November 2016 and an agent was appointed to find a 
new tenant to take over the sublease. As the current  holder of the sublease (the company) 
was now in liquidation, the SIPP then took over the payment of all bills due on the property.
A potential  new tenant to take over the sublease  was found in July 2017 and the agent was 
appointed as property manager  going forward. A service agreement  was agreed between  
the agent and Mr R and signed  by IPM. 
There were a number of lease amendments required and some building  work to be carried  
out before  the new tenants  were  happy to sign the sublease. Once  again, the cost for these 
and the ongoing property  upkeep was charged  to the SIPP. The new sublease completed on 
12 December 2017 and the agent  commenced collecting the rent and making payment over 
to the SIPP as per the property  management  agreement.
Ref: DRN56769232In the meantime, a cheque  had arrived (but wasnt  passed  to IPM until later)  dated 15 March 
2017 from HMRC for £2,433.  HMRC  said it was a VAT refund due in respect of overpaid 
VAT from the SSAS.  Mr R asked that this was paid directly to him but HMRC would  only pay 
it to the SSAS  (which had now been wound  up) or the SIPP.  Mr R asked  whether the SIPP 
could accept it. IPM agreed it could, so long as the payee was amended  to show  the 
trustees of the IPM SIPP  and HMRC  confirmed exactly what the refund was in respect of so 
that IPM could then treat it as they would a dividend payment.
On 13 November 2017 Mr R, via his financial adviser, asked that the cheque be returned  to 
HMRC and that the details be provided to allow the cheque to be paid into his SIPP  account. 
IPM responded the next day giving their requirements for accepting the cheque into the 
SIPP. 
The SIPP bank account was changed  to a different bank at the beginning of 2018.  This 
caused problems  for Mr R as he felt that the live online view of the account didnt tally with 
the statements  he received and so he wasnt sure which one could be trusted to be correct.  
Correspondence continued between Mr R, his adviser and IPM around the bank account, 
the property charges and management  fees, and the VAT refund cheque. 
Mr R complained to IPM in June 2018 as he felt that ever since they had taken  over the 
running of the SIPP things  had been going wrong. More specifically he was concerned that 
IPM had been  paying money out of his pension which they shouldnt  have been. He was 
also unhappy that their systems made it difficult  for him to understand exactly  what  money 
was in his pension and what was being  paid out and that the bank  account  information was 
not correct as far as he could see and didnt  tally with his annual statements. He felt IPM 
were unhelpful  and incompetent, as evidenced by the fact that the VAT refund cheque had 
still not been paid into his SIPP.
IPM responded to the complaint on 11 July 2018. IPM said they were satisfied they hadnt 
failed in their duties and so they wouldnt be upholding the complaint. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with IPMs response  and referred his complaint to us. 
It was investigated  by one of our adjudicators. She issued her initial  view on 21 December 
2018. In summary  she concluded that IPM had acted  fairly in their dealings  with Mr R, 
generally responding quickly to questions and requests  for information. She acknowledged 
the property within the SIPP had caused  some problems but she didnt believe the difficulties 
with transferring the property from Mr Rs SASS  to his new SIPP  was down to IPM as their 
role wasnt  to advise or act as a project manager  for the transfer. Our adjudicator also 
concluded that IPM had acting appropriately in accordance with their role as scheme 
trustees/administrators when paying bills from the SIPP  that were rightly  due. 
But the adjudicator didnt  think  IPM had dealt with the VAT refund cheque  as they should 
have done. She said that IPM had initially understood the VAT refund was to be settled 
outside the SIPP. But on 13 November 2017  Mr Rs adviser asked what IPM would need for 
the cheque to be paid into the SIPP. IPM set out its requirements. And so IPM was then 
aware that the intention was to pay the cheque into the SIPP. But IPM hadnt  then taken 
further steps to bring that about. The adjudicator thought it should  have  been  possible to 
cash the cheque  by 1 February 2018.  She said IPM should pay compensation to reflect  the 
loss Mr R had suffered as a result of that money not having been invested from that date. 
She also said IPM should pay Mr R £100  for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered. 
Ref: DRN56769233IPM didnt agree with what the adjudicator had said about the delay  in the banking of the 
refund cheque. IPM said it related  to a return by the transferring scheme  (Mr Rs SSAS)  and 
Mr R had completed the VAT returns for that scheme. IPM said it needed information about  
those returns which HMRC wouldnt have  provided as they related to a different company or 
pension scheme. IPM said it had told Mr R what information it needed and responsibility for 
providing that promptly rested with him. Further  it seems there  was a discrepancy between  
the rental accounts and the VAT returns submitted by the transferring scheme. IPM said it 
couldnt simply bank  the cheque  without  determining if it was correctly payable.  
Mr R also made some  further comments.  In particular he said there were discrepancies in 
the on line spreadsheets. He gave examples and said that confusing  explanations had been 
given. Amongst other things he said IPM had paid a disputed invoice for ground 
maintenance without  consulting  him and when hed told IPM that they needed to access 
paperwork held by the liquidator  or company accountants for proof that the invoice had been  
paid. Rates had also been overpaid  due to an error  on IPMs part and for which it had 
apologised. The managing agents  fees had also been overpaid as thered been a mistake  in 
the VAT element of the invoice. 
The adjudicator made  some further enquiries with IPM before issuing a second view on 15 
March 2019. She said IPM had said, although they knew  about  the VAT refund  cheque in 
2017, they werent in receipt of the cheque until 26 February 2018. IPM had been advised  by 
HMRC in a letter dated 9 August 2018 that the cheque was a refund in respect of VAT 
returns made by the previous scheme for March  2016 and June 2016. HMRC had made  
automatic deductions  based on the amounts it assumed would  be due but nil returns had 
subsequently been submitted and so the VAT was being refunded. But that didnt match 
what IPM had been told by the SSAS administrators and which suggested the nil returns had 
been submitted  in error. IPM couldnt pay the cheque into the SIPP as it could be an 
unauthorised contribution.  IPM had written to Mr R on 20 August 2018 asking for further 
information which hadnt been  received. 
In the light of that further information  the adjudicator now didnt  think  IPM had done anything  
wrong or was responsible for the cheque  not having been paid into the SIPP.  
The adjudicator said shed queried with IPM what Mr R had said about two statements 
showing different information.  IPM had said the incorrect statement was produced manually 
from data entered  by IPM. They had noted  an error in the data entered  as the sum of £87.58 
had been rounded up to £87.60  which had led to the discrepancy.  IPM confirmed that they 
had noticed and corrected this error in October  2018, so the records  were  now correct.  The 
adjudicator said she was satisfied this was a clerical error  rather than any failing in IPMs 
administration systems. She also thought the actual bank statements were correct.  
About the outstanding invoices she said IPM, as the legal owners (as SIPP  trustees) of the 
(leasehold) property, had a legal duty to ensure any outstanding bills were  paid and that the 
SIPP wasnt  potentially liable for recovery proceedings. If evidence was found to show the 
invoices werent in fact due a refund could be requested. 
There was a dispute about the property management invoices. Mr R felt there was an 
element of double-charging of commission on the VAT element of the rent. It had been 
corrected since Mr R had pointed it out. IPM had said that they dont double check the 
invoices other than to see that the fee charged was 8%.
Ref: DRN56769234The adjudicator said that the agreement for the property management was made  between  
Mr R and the agent without input from IPM, although IPM had signed the engagement letter. 
But fees were deducted  from the rental  payments and a net amount paid to the SIPP.  IPM 
didnt have any control over how much  was deducted so any error would only ever be 
corrected after the event. 
The adjudicator maintained that IPM had acted properly and where errors had occurred 
theyd been quickly  rectified. She no longer thought  IPM should  pay redress  for investment 
loss in connection with the VAT refund cheque. But she said she understood why Mr R felt 
that, at times, he was fighting an uphill battle.  She thought thered been a breakdown  in 
communications on more  than one occasion  which had left Mr R feeling that ongoing issues  
werent being dealt with and hed be out of pocket. IPM had offered a meeting to discuss  any 
ongoing issues which the adjudicator thought  might  be useful. She maintained IPM should 
pay Mr R £100 for the trouble and upset  hed experienced.
IPM accepted the adjudicators findings. Mr R remained unhappy. He was still concerned 
about the on line bank statements which he said were spreadsheets inputted  manually and 
which showed incorrect withdrawals and deposits.  He was disappointed with the award  of 
£100 which he didnt  feel fairly reflected the time hed spent in highlighting discrepancies  in 
the administration of his pension and for which hed not received any apology.   
The adjudicator responded. She agreed that the format of the bank statements and account 
statements was very similar and so was confusing. She was satisfied the bank statements 
were correct but the account summary  was manually produced  and thats where an error  
had been made. She agreed IPM should have apologised and explained. But she 
maintained the award for distress and inconvenience was in line with our usual approach.  
Mr R reiterated that the statements didnt add up and that IPM had agreed that it had made 
an error. He also said that HMRC  had to issue several cheques  as IPM held onto them  and 
theyd expired. He also mentioned incorrect or disputed  invoices  and he said hed had 
similar problems  more recently. 
The complaint has now been referred  to me to decide. Im sorry its taken longer  than wed 
have liked to reach this stage of our process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R also made a separate  complaint  about his financial  adviser which has been dealt with 
under separate reference. Im only dealing here with his complaint about IPM.
IPM was the administrator of Mr Rs SIPP. What Im looking at is whether IPM has 
administered Mr Rs SIPP properly and if the service provided  by IPM has been of a 
reasonable standard. Having done  so Im satisfied  on both counts. I agree with the findings 
the adjudicator  reached and with the reasons she gave. 
As the adjudicator noted, theres a vast amount  of correspondence between Mr R, his 
adviser, other parties  and IPM. Im not going to comment on everything but Ive concentrated 
on the main issues as well as forming an overall impression of how things  went. Ive given  
some examples to support my conclusions.  
Ref: DRN56769235I can see that the transfer of the property  was problematic. An in specie transfer  of a 
commercial property is often complex and time consuming. Here the situation was 
complicated by the fact that Mr Rs company had ceased trading and a new tenant for the 
property had to be found. That took some time and when a prospective tenant was found 
IPM had to liaise with a large number of parties - Mr R, his adviser, the property agent,  the 
solicitors instructed by IPM and for the prospective tenants as well as various contractors. A 
considerable amount of documentation had to be agreed and completed..  
Overall I think  IPM dealt  with Mr Rs queries  promptly  and fully. For example, Mr R raised a 
number of queries  (initially to his adviser) on 31 July 2017  about the new sublease  checklist. 
IPM responded the following day, noted by Mr Rs adviser as a swift and comprehensive 
reply from IPM. But Mr R didnt agree and felt the response was somewhat vague. But IPM 
dealt with Mr Rs follow up queries promptly.  
IPM had to chase  up Mr R to agree the draft sublease. I can see that by then Mr R was 
beginning to feel somewhat side lined. I tend to agree with what  the adjudicator said about  
Mr Rs position having changed  the property had been an asset  of his SSAS and Mr R was 
the principal trustee. Transferring it to the SIPP meant that IPM were  the trustees  and so 
many of the decisions fell to IPM. And, as his company was no longer the tenant  of the 
property, the property itself wasnt under Mr Rs direct control. So I can understand why Mr R 
may have  felt somewhat excluded and that he had no option  but to agree to whatever IPM 
suggested. 
But overall I think it was clear that IPM was trying to act in Mr Rs best interests. That 
included getting  the new tenancy agreed  and the tenants in the property as quickly as 
possible. And I think IPM did try to make it clear, at times at least,  that they wanted to work 
with Mr R. I think IPM tried to progress the matter  as quickly  as possible.  I cant see any 
evidence of delay  on IPMs part. IPM seems to have reacted promptly  to queries and 
requests for information and generally  tried to ensure  the new lease completed as quickly as 
possible. For example,  I note that IPM asked the agent to chase up the lack of response 
from the prospective tenants solicitor to the requested changes  to the lease agreement 
which I think evidences that IPM was proactive. 
I dont think IPM paid money which it shouldnt have done. Mr R queried the payment of 
rates and utility  bills and whether IPM was legally  able to make  such payments. IPM did 
explain the position: The lease hadnt completed in early September  2017 as originally 
planned and before the next rates  payment fell due. As the tenants werent in the property 
IPM as the owner  of the property was responsible  for meeting all the property costs, 
including those required in connection  with the new sublease,  such as the electrical and 
asbestos reports. I note Mr R considered the latter was poor value for money.  But I dont 
think that was IPMs fault. Nor were the issues that arose about how the asbestos had been 
removed and disposed  of.  
The SIPP was also responsible for utility  bills due after Mr Rs company left the property  and 
before it was re let. I agree it was prudent to arrange  for the bills to be sent to the managing 
agent for checking  before submitting to IPM for payment.  I note, when a large  electricity  bill 
was received, IPM asked  the agent  to query  it as a matter of urgency. 
Mr R was also concerned  that IPM had taken its own fees first. IPM explained  that the 
charge of £825 related  to its annual administration and VAT fees, both payable in advance  
and that no charge would  be made  in respect  of the new lease until it completed  or aborted.   
Ref: DRN56769236I can understand Mr Rs concern about  the amount of payments being paid out of his SIPP 
fund. I can see that he may have  felt he had no control over the expenditure and he may 
have felt that he hadnt been consulted. But Im satisfied that IPM acted  legally and 
appropriately in discharging the various accounts  that fell due. IPM did generally seek 
confirmation from Mr R, via his adviser,  before discharging accounts. There was a debt 
recovery agents letter about an unpaid electricity account (£188.51 including the £50 
recovery fee) which I dont think IPM had much  choice other than to pay, even if Mr R did 
want to dispute  the amount later.  
Mr R did query the managing agents  fee which IPM raised promptly with the managing 
agent. It seems that Mr R had agreed a 10% letting fee with the agent  8% was the 
management fee. There was an extra charge for advertising which  Mr R said he hadnt 
agreed. Mr R queried if IPM had signed  off that fee. IPM replied to some  other  points but had 
to be prompted  to deal with the specific query. But Mr R subsequently said that the invoice 
could be paid. I dont  think any omission on IPMs part to deal immediately with the query 
about the agents fee is significant  overall or evidence  that IPM failed in their duties.   
There was also an issue with the VAT refund.  I understand that has yet to be resolved. Both 
Mr R and IPM would like this matter settled.  Id assume that the cheque has now expired so 
a new one will be required.  But I cant say that IPM is responsible for the delay in the refund 
being paid into Mr Rs SIPP, if indeed that can happen. If IPM isnt happy about paying 
crediting the VAT refund to Mr Rs SIPP then Im not going to say that IPM must do that. 
First, it appears  that IPM has requested information from Mr R which  hasnt been 
forthcoming. Id suggest  that Mr R provides  the information that IPM has requested  and 
which will hopefully result on IPM being happy to accept the refund. Secondly,  Im not sure 
to what extent it would be fair to hold IPM responsible for what might be termed legacy 
matters connected  to Mr Rs company. I think that applies to some of the other issues too, 
such as disputed invoices  relating  to Mr Rs company.
Mr R has also expressed concern about discrepancies when accessing his scheme bank 
account on line and the annual statements. The adjudicator agreed that confusion  had 
arisen because  of the similar format of the bank and account  statements.  But theres nothing 
to indicate that Mr R has suffered any financial loss. Mr R did identify an error which IPM 
corrected. I can understand Mr Rs annoyance if no apology was forthcoming.  
But I dont think theres anything to justify a higher award. Mr R may have spent time 
reconciling the statements. And my view might have been different if, as a result, hed 
identified multiple  errors.  There were  some errors but, given that the circumstances werent  
straightforward, I dont  think a higher  award is justified. Awards for time spent are perhaps 
more modest than Mr R might expect. The award was initially suggested because the 
adjudicator thought IPM hadnt handled  the VAT refund cheque  properly. The award Im 
making reflects the fact that some errors were made by IPM. I consider them to be of a 
relatively minor nature  although  I recognise Mr R is unlikely to agree. 
my decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint  but only in part. I.P.M. SIPP Administration Limited must pay him 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  suffered  as a result of the shortcomings identified  
above. 
Ref: DRN56769237Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5676923