K822xcomplaint
D complains that Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited trading as Cashplus  failed to return 
some of Ds money after they closed Ds business account. 
This complaint has been referred to us by Mr M, a director of D. 
background 
D had a current account with Cashplus.  In 2018,  Cashplus  gave D 60 days  notice to close 
its account and subsequently closed  it. Cashplus told Mr M that payments received into the 
account would be returned to the sender and they would  issue  D with a cheque for the 
remaining balance. 
In February 2019,  Cashplus  wrote  to D to say that three final payments had been returned to 
source and a cheque would  shortly  be issued to D for the balance  of £2869.61. 
D initially complained  about Cashplus closing its account, but they didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
In January 2019, Mr M referred his complaint  to this service. Mr M told us that his real 
concern was that D hadnt had all its money back. Mr M said that hed received  the cheque  
but Ds new bank  account didnt accept  cheques.  Instead, hed tried to pay it into his 
personal account, but it had been  returned  unpaid. So the company was still without the 
funds.  
In November 2019, Cashplus told us they were still trying to work out if the cheque had been 
cashed. 
In March 2020, I issued a provisional decision. I said I thought Cashplus had had enough  
time to work out whether a cheque had been  paid, but I gave them one more  chance to 
respond. I said that if Cashplus  didnt reply, I would assume theyd  completed  their 
investigation and found no evidence that D had had the funds. In that case, my intention was 
to require Cashplus to pay D the outstanding amount by electronic transfer.  
I also said that I was minded to require Cashplus to compensate  D for being deprived of the 
sum by adding interest at 8% a year pro rata. And to require Cashplus to pay a further £150 
as compensation  for the trouble theyd  caused.   
Cashplus once again asked for more  time,  in view of the current lockdown situation. I gave 
them a final deadline of 18 May to provide  more evidence.  No further evidence was received  
by this date. So Im now proceeding with my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and in the absence  of 
any new evidence or arguments from either party, I havent changed my provisional view.  So 
Im going  to uphold  it. 
Ive seen evidence  of the amount in question,  in the form of an email from Cashplus 
confirming a cheque  had been issued  to D for £2869.61.  Mr M says this amount remains  
Ref: DRN54402042outstanding, because he wasnt able to pay in the cheque. On the other hand, Cashplus 
says it isnt certain and is worried about double-compensating D. 
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that the sum remains outstanding, given the 
absence of evidence  to the contrary from Cashplus. In saying this, Im mindful of the amount 
of time that has elapsed  and the fact that working  out whether a cheque has been paid or 
not isnt generally  an unduly complex or time-consuming task.  
In the circumstances, my decision is that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect D to wait 
any longer for its money. Cashplus has, in my view, had ample  time to investigate the 
cheque and provide evidence, including  several months before coronavirus had any impact. 
Once Mr M provides Ds bank account  details, Cashplus must  make an electronic payment  
for the amount outstanding. 
D has now been without  the outstanding amount for over a year. So Im also going  to require 
Cashplus to compensate D for being  deprived  of this sum over that time by adding  interest.  
I also still think that D has been inconvenienced by Cashplus delays and poor customer  
service in this matter. So Cashplus should  pay an additional £150 as compensation for the 
trouble caused  to the company.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. I direct Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading  as Cashplus to pay D by electronic transfer into Ds nominated  bank account  
the sum of the following:
£2869.61,  being the outstanding amount owed 
£150 for the inconvenience theyve caused  to D
Interest on £2869.61 at 8% a year pro rata, from the date Mr M informed Cashplus 
that the cheque hadnt  cleared until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
D to accept or reject my decision before 19th June 2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5440204