K821x#15complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has said she has historic  arrears on her mortgage 
account. 
background
Miss T has an interest-only mortgage which was due to be repaid in 2013  but a shortfall  was 
left after her linked endowment  policy  matured  with a lower value than anticipated. Since that 
time, Miss T has continued to make monthly  interest payments on the balance   however 
some of these payments  have been missed.
Because of this, the mortgage fell into arrears which have resulted in arrears  charges and 
periodic visits  from field agents  which Miss T has said puts her under pressure. 
In July 2018, Santander wrote to Miss T informing her that there had been further spells  of 
arrears in the past, in 2006, 2007, 2009,  2011  and 2012. Santander said they capitalised the 
arrears. This means they added what was owed at that time, onto the outstanding mortgage 
balance. Miss T said that she was unaware  of the arrears and that this was the first time she 
was told about  them. She said she had made all her monthly payments, so she didnt think 
there were any arrears on her mortgage account.
Santander have  said that they would have notified  Miss T of these arrears, but they havent  
been able to provide any evidence of this due to the passage  of time. They have said that 
there havent been any errors made and Miss T would have known about the arrears from 
her mortgage statements  and the balance  showing.
Miss T has said that the annual mortgage statements she was sent didnt show  any arrears,  
so she thinks that Santander have applied  interest and charges to her account unfairly. 
Miss T also said that she felt pressured  to repay her balance especially as there  was a 
shortfall in the endowment policy. She brought another complaint to our service  regarding 
the endowment  policy and this complaint has now had a final decision from our service,  so I 
wont be commenting on this at all.
Because of the capitalisation  of arrears, Miss T is unhappy because  her monthly payment 
suddenly increased  from around £9 to £30 a month.  As she remained dissatisfied  with what 
Santander had said, she brought the complaint to our service where it was looked at by one 
of our investigators who upheld the complaint. Our investigator didnt think that Santander 
had done enough to make  Miss T aware of the arrears on the account and that if they had, 
Miss T would have made  payments towards her arrears  in due course.
Our investigator thought that Santander  should re-work the mortgage account as if the 
monthly payments  were made  on time and therefore  no additional interest should be applied  
to the account.  She also said that Santander  should also remove all arrears related charges  
and third-party administration costs related to the historic arrears. Our investigator  also said 
that Santander should pay Miss T £500 for the trouble and upset they caused to her.
Miss T accepted what our investigator  had said but Santander didnt agree. They made  the 
following comments:
Ref: DRN52927432They said they have  been in contact  with Miss T over the years  and said they wrote 
to her letting her know what her monthly payments would be (26 February  2009  and 
24 May 2011).
In March 2013 the endowment proceeds  were applied to the mortgage  account, and 
they issued a redemption statement to Miss T at that time. They  also wrote to her 
asking her how she intended on repaying the outstanding balance. They said they 
wrote to her at the security address and the correspondence address  (Miss  T was 
living with her mother for a while),  but Miss T did not contact them. On 1 May 2013 
they sent out another redemption statement to Miss T.
Throughout 2014 they tried to contact Miss T and when they did speak to her she 
was unwilling to discuss the issue of the outstanding balance because  she was 
waiting on the outcome  of her endowment complaint  which  was with our service.
During this time (2014) Miss T called  Santander  a few times wanting  to know  why 
credit had not been returned to her as she had been overpaying. Santander said they 
advised her that overpayments  were applied to reduce the outstanding balance
During 2015 they tried to contact Miss T, but she did not return  calls or respond to 
letters. They sent Miss T another redemption statement  in the hope  it would prompt 
her to contact them regarding the outstanding balance.
In July 2016 Miss T said she felt that the letters being sent to her were harassing her 
and was unhappy with the field visit arranged  as she was still pursuing the 
endowment complaint.  Santander  said they checked Miss Ts address which  was 
correct, and she was told she had to maintain her monthly mortgage payments.
They sent a letter in March 2017 advising  Miss T of her monthly  payments.
In February 2018 another letter was sent to Miss T advising her of the arrears. It was 
noted in April 2018 that a conversation  took place about Miss T keeping  them  
updated with her intentions to repay  the outstanding balance.
They investigated the arrears and capitalised  due to their age and waived fees 
applied to that calendar year.
They said the annual  statements they have provided our service  are not in the same 
format that the customer receives them. The mortgage statement dated  31 
December 2018 does state 2019 monthly payments does not include  outstanding 
arrears of £36.76  at 31 December 2018.  Santander said all their annual  statements 
have been in this format  since  2002.
They said they confirmed to our service  in August 2020 that no fees or charges have 
been added  to the account after April 2020. The balance has been  due since  2013 
but Santander decided to keep the mortgage account on hold. Due to Covid-19 
guidelines, they wouldnt commence litigation and under  their present guidelines, 
because of the balance or the arrears,  they wouldnt start litigation, but their criteria  
could change.
They felt £500  trouble  and upset recommended by our investigator  was too high 
because Miss T was not engaging  with them and they would need a clear  payment 
plan from her on how she was going  to repay the debt.
They said Miss Ts payment increased in January  2020,  not just after capitalisation 
but as part of the Year End Review. They said they have  a process  whereby their 
system recognises if there was a shortfall  in an endowment policy and it creates an 
additional amount that needs to be paid in order to make it up. They said that if 
Miss T had got in touch with them, they could have removed the excess  amount from 
the account in order  to reduce  her payment  but she would still have the issue  of the 
term being expired  and the outstanding balance being due.
Ref: DRN52927433As Santander didnt  agree  with what our investigator  had said, they asked  for the complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several submissions that have been  made by Santander and Miss T and I have  
thought very carefully about everything before coming to my decision. If I havent specifically 
covered off every point  that has been raised, I can assure both parties that all points  have 
been carefully considered. This isnt meant  as a discourtesy to either party,  but I have 
focused on what I believe to be the main crux of the complaint  as Im required to do.
Miss T has told us that the first time she was aware of any historic arrears  present on her 
mortgage account was when she received the letter from Santander  in July 2018. Miss T 
said that this has caused her a lot of stress and anxiety. Santander have  said they have 
made Miss T aware of the monthly payments and that letters  have been sent out to her 
along with redemption statements, highlighting what was outstanding on the mortgage  
account. They said due to the passage  of time,  they are unable  to provide us with any 
supporting documents. They have however sent us sample letters to show what the arrears 
notification letters would  have  looked like.
Santander said the letter they sent Miss T on 24 May 2011 showed the outstanding balance,  
the end date of the mortgage and the monthly payment. They also said that their historic 
statements dont show the arrears balance, but they show that Miss T has missed some of 
her monthly mortgage payments from 2006  to 2013. They said there was a difference 
between the closing and opening  balance on the statements  so Miss T should  have known  
that there  were arrears on the mortgage.  Santander  have said there  were  no arrears  related 
charges applied to the account from 2006 to 2017.
If there are arrears  on a mortgage account,  we would expect lenders to send out letters to 
consumers notifying  them of any arrears on their mortgage account. We also expect lenders 
to discuss forbearance  options with consumers  in order to decide  what  is affordable in order  
to bring the mortgage account  back on track.
As we dont  have  any evidence  of any letters which were  sent to Miss T, I have reviewed the 
contact notes to get an understanding of what has happened  over the years.  The contact 
notes for the account start as early as 1995.
I can see from the notes in 1995  that Miss T was experiencing financial difficulties and her 
mortgage account went into arrears around that time. The notes  show that Santander  carried 
out an income and expenditure assessment and discussed a repayment  plan with Miss T. I 
think its also clear from reviewing the contact notes,  that Miss T contacted Santander  
whenever she received  letters from Santander or had specific  queries relating to her 
account. The contact  notes show that Miss T called and spoke to Santander a few times 
asking about her account and it doesnt appear that Santander informed her that she was in 
arrears  which they should have done.
Ive then looked at the mortgage statements from 2006, which is when Santander  said 
Miss T had further arrears on her mortgage  account. From reviewing the statements, I can 
see that Miss T did miss some of her monthly mortgage payments in 2006, 2007, 2009, 
Ref: DRN529274342011 and 2012. But I dont think the mortgage  statements  are clear that the mortgage 
account was in arrears.  There is no mention of arrears on the statement and while I 
appreciate what Santander have said about  the opening and closing balance, I dont think  
this is clear enough to have alerted  Miss T that her mortgage was behind.  The balance  
outstanding overall on the mortgage  was very small (£9710 in 2006) and the arrears  were 
minimal so I think it would have been reasonable for Miss T not to have realised. Especially 
given the fact that Santander didnt write to her to let her know  she was behind on her 
payments and had to pay more. Even  if Miss T did know  she didnt make all her payments, I 
would have expected Santander to tell her that. Looking at all the mortgage statements on 
account (from 1989 to 2018), Miss T has missed  some  of her mortgage  payments. But she 
overpaid in other months for the payments that she is aware she missed.  So, it wasnt made 
clear to her that she was in arrears during those years.
So, although  Miss T missed some  mortgage payments in the years mentioned by Santander, 
there isnt any evidence that Santander  informed her of this prior to sending the letter out in 
July 2018. We would expect a lender to notify a borrower if they were not making all their 
payments and let them  know that they were  in arrears. Santander have not chased  Miss T 
for the arrears on her mortgage  and have not discussed these with her. I would have 
expected Santander to have discussed the arrears with Miss T first before capitalising the 
arrears. They didnt  give Miss T the opportunity to agree a way forward with them in order to 
try and bring  the account up to date.
I can see that Santander have tried to contact Miss T on several occasions from 2006 to 
2013 to try and discuss a repayment arrangement that may have been affordable for Miss T 
as there  were arrears  on her mortgage account  but they were not able to speak to her. It 
doesnt however  look like any letters have been sent with regards to the arrears.  When 
Miss T called to speak  to Santander because she queried her account,  it doesnt look like 
Santander made her aware that there  were arrears  on the account.
From reviewing the mortgage  statements and taking into account what  Santander said about 
these statements, I dont  think  they were clear  enough  and I dont think  they would  have 
alerted Miss T that she had arrears  on her mortgage  from 2006  to 2013.
I appreciate that Santander have said they did notify  Miss T of the arrears  on her account  
before they sent the letter out in July 2018,  but based on what  I have  seen, on balance, I 
dont think they did.
From looking  at the contact notes,  Miss T tends  to have a history of calling Santander to 
discuss anything she is unsure about. I think if Santander had notified her of arrears on her 
mortgage from 2006 to 2013, based  on how Miss T conducted her account, she would have 
called them to discuss it  and there  is no evidence  that she did this either which makes me 
believe she wasnt aware. The notes  on file dont indicate that anything was actually 
discussed in relation to the arrears  during  this time.
I think had Santander  made Miss T aware that she had arrears  on the account, Miss T would 
have contacted Santander  to discuss options  and agree  a way forward  that was affordable  
for her and I think she would have  made  her payments based  on what  she had done 
historically.
Miss T is unhappy that the mortgage payments on her account increased  when  the 
mortgage arrears were capitalised, and she said that arrears related charges  have been  
Ref: DRN52927435applied to her account  unfairly. Santander have  told us that they havent applied  any charges 
from 2006 to 2017.  
Although Santander sent the letter to Miss T in July 2018 letting her know about the arrears, 
they also said in this letter that the arrears were  capitalised.  But in their final response  in 
November 2018,  Santander said that any overpayments Miss T had made,  had been used to 
reduce the arrears balance and that she was still in arrears. 
As the arrears had been capitalised, there was no mention  of what  the monthly payment 
would be, and I think that Santander should have  informed  Miss T of this rather than just 
increasing her payments  without notice. Santander did inform Miss T in this letter what  
balance was outstanding but not what she needed to pay going forwards. I do appreciate 
that the term ended  in 2013 and Santander are not following their normal  process because 
they have said the mortgage amount left outstanding isnt worth starting litigation for 
(although they have  said their criteria may change). But I still think  that Miss T should  have  
been notified clearly what  she needed  to pay, and Santander should  have discussed a 
repayment plan that was affordable to Miss T in order  to repay the balance that was 
outstanding. 
I believe that Miss T wasnt aware  until 2018  that she had historic arrears on her mortgage 
account. I dont  think  that Santander did enough  to inform Miss T about the arrears on her 
mortgage and I do think, based  on what I have seen, that if Santander had notified Miss T, 
she would  have made her payments eventually. I dont think it would have taken her nearly 
13 years  to pay off the arrears outstanding.
End of mortgage term
The mortgage term ended in 2013 and Miss T was left with a shortfall on her mortgage  
because of the shortfall in her endowment policy. Miss T has said she feels pressured by 
Santander to repay  her mortgage.
I appreciate how Miss T may be feeling  but the term of her mortgage did expire  in 2013 and 
Santander are entitled  to get their money  back. We would always expect a lender to work  
with the borrower  to try and come  to an agreement for the outstanding  amount to be repaid.
As I have already  mentioned,  from reviewing the contact notes, I can see that Santander 
have tried to contact Miss T numerous  times to discuss  the balance  outstanding and I cant 
say that they have  been unreasonable in doing so. The balance does need  to be repaid  and 
therefore Miss T will need to engage with Santander moving forwards so that they can come 
to an agreement for this to happen.
Santander should take into account  the current circumstances surrounding the pandemic 
and should give Miss T reasonable  time before starting any legal action. Repossession  
should always be the last resort.
Overall, I think that Santander  could  have done  more to inform Miss T about the arrears on 
her mortgage and as Ive explained, I think Miss T would have made arrangements to pay 
this had she known.  I therefore think the mortgage  account should be re-worked as if the 
monthly payments  had been made in time from January 2006  to December 2012 and there 
should be no additional interest, arrears  related charges or any third-party administration 
costs applied to the account as a result  of the arrears. This would meant  that the 
Ref: DRN52927436capitalisation in effect should not have happened which would mean  the monthly payments 
wouldnt have increased.
Santander have  already  told us that they havent  applied any charges to the account  from 
2006 to 2017 but they should remove any arrears related fees up to July 2018 unless these 
arrears relate to any missed monthly payments from 2018 that Miss T was supposed to 
make.
Our investigator thought that in addition to this, Miss T should be awarded £500 for the 
trouble and upset  that she has been caused. Santander felt that this amount was too high.  
But Miss T has suffered  a great  deal of stress and anxiety because of this. She has been  
trying hard to make sure her mortgage  account was up to date by making payments that she 
had missed, and this was a concern  for her. This has had an impact as she has been 
worrying a great deal about what was going to happen to her and her home. I think that £500 
is a reasonable  amount to be paid to Miss T.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Santander UK Plc to:
Re-work the mortgage account  as if the monthly payments were  made  on time from 
January 2006  to December 2012 so there  should be no additional interest, arrears 
related charges or third-party administration costs applied to the account  as a result  
of any historic arrears. If any costs were  applied, these should be refunded.
Remove all arrears  related charges that were applied due to the historic arrears  up to 
July 2018.   
Pay Miss T £500 for the trouble and upset  this has caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before date 9 April 2021.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5292743