K821x#15Mr L is seeking to recover  £4,400  from HSBC  UK Bank Plc, which was stolen from his bank 
account as a result of a third-party scam.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Mr L unwittingly authorised the payment   
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from 
the payee bank. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for the following reasons:
1.Its common ground that Mr L authorised the scam payment of £4,400 in November 
2017. He was duped by the scammer  to transfer the money  online via an international 
payment to pay for two luxury watches.  Hed lost an online bid for the watch on a well-
known buying  and selling website. But the seller later contacted  him to say the sale had 
fallen through  and the watches were  still available.  The seller  asked  Mr L to transfer the 
money directly to him via bank transfer,  rather than through the website. Mr L trusted the 
buyer having noted he had lots of good  reviews and was present on a watch  forum. He 
therefore proceeded to make the payment. Sadly,  when the watches didnt arrive, Mr L 
realised hed been scammed and contacted HSBC. 
2.I accept this was an authorised payment  even  though Mr L was the victim of a scam. He 
used his security credentials to request  the payment. So, although  he was tricked  into 
making the payment, under the Payment  Services Regulations, Mr L is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
3.However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
4.HSBC has placed emphasis on the legal case of Barclays  Bank  plc v Quincecare Ltd 
[1992] 4 All ER 363. It says the Quincecare ruling means its responsibility to be alert to 
fraud is subordinate to its contractual duty to promptly execute a payment order. HSBC  
went onto say that it would not be fair and reasonable to impose standards  that prevent 
the effective operation  of its retail banking services  and said that it does have systems in 
place to monitor accounts, but these  will consider  the whole relationship with the 
Ref: DRN52975272customer, not just the last couple of months.  It pointed  out Mr L has banked with HSBC 
for 23 years. I recognise there is a balance here and I dont  expect HSBC  to 
unreasonably disrupt  its banking services where  payments  appear  (and are) legitimate. 
However, I do think there are certain  cases where,  on those specific facts, it would have 
been fair and reasonable for a bank to take action  because the fraud alerts that they are 
supposed to deploy for regulatory and legal  reasons, probably could and should have 
been triggered. I think Mr Ls payment is one of those occasions. 
5.Having reviewed Mr Ls account statements for the seven months prior to the £4,400  
payment, I think the activity on the account was unusual and out of character for Mr L. 
Peoples circumstances and spending habits  can change  over the years,  so thats  why 
Ive focused on more recent activity when assessing whether this particular transaction is 
unusual and out of character. Also, I note HSBC didnt refer to any particular spending in 
the past 23 years that would cast doubt  on whether the £4,400 international payment 
was unusual for the account in that time. Mr L didnt make payments  for such a large  
amount from his account during the seven months prior to the transfer  it was mostly 
used for lower value  card payments,  Standing  Orders and Direct Debits. He made  the 
occasional bill payment,  but mostly to existing payees and not to an international bank.  
So, when  taken  altogether, Im satisfied there  were  signs Mr L could be at risk of fraud or 
financial harm when  he made the transfer. 
6.It follows that I wouldve then expected  HSBC  to contact Mr L and satisfy  themselves he 
wasnt at risk of any financial harm. It seems very likely that had HSBC  asked Mr L what  
the payment was for, he wouldve explained  it was for watches he was buying online.  A 
couple of probing questions  wouldve uncovered that Mr L had seen  the watches on a 
buying and selling website but was now being asked to transfer money outside of this 
website. In my view transferring money in this way is a clear  red flag. Not only is it a 
common type of scam,  but there is no protection to consumers when transferring money 
in this way, and particularly when it is an international payment. So, at this point I 
wouldve expected  HSBC to warn Mr L of these risks and point out that he was 
potentially walking  into a scam.  
7.HSBC disagree that had it contacted  Mr L, it wouldve made a difference.  However, Im 
satisfied it wouldve. Mr L had checked reviews on the seller prior to making  the payment 
and seen he was on a watch forum, but I dont think this wouldve been sufficient enough 
for him to have ignored such a stark  warning from his bank. Had HSBC pointed out the 
risks and red flags around making  a payment outside of the buying  and selling website, I 
see no reason to believe Mr L wouldve ignored this and proceeded with sending  a 
significant international payment  with effectively no protection should the watches  not 
arrive, and the seller  turn out to be dishonest. I think that, instead,  Mr L would probably 
have explored  other safer ways  of making the payment or not have  made a payment to 
the scammer at all. In other words, but for HSBCs failure to flag the payment  and 
provide an adequate  warning, Mr Ls loss would probably have been  avoided.
8.HSBC delayed contacting the receiving bank, via the intermediary. However, in light of 
my conclusions  above, it is not necessary  to consider the impact  this had on it being able 
to recover Mr Ls money.  
9.I have also considered whether Mr L should  bear some responsibility  by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of 
authorising the payment, he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate 
what he was doing or the consequences of his actions.  Mr L was satisfied with the 
Ref: DRN52975273legitimacy of the seller  having already seen he had good reviews and that he was active  
on watch forums. So, when he was contacted  by the seller  and asked to make the 
payment outside  of the buying  and selling website, he wasnt suspicious.  Unlike  the 
bank, Mr L isnt an expert in scams and so wouldnt know to be on the lookout for this  
he said himself that he had no reason to doubt  the seller given what  hed seen. Whilst 
there was information  on the buying and selling  website  about fraud and scams,  HSBC 
could and shouldve  prevented the loss. A person needs to reasonably  foresee the risk of 
some sort of loss  not necessarily the precise  loss that occurred  in order  to be held 
liable in negligence. I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable  to say that Mr L was 
careless or partly responsible for a loss that he simply did not foresee. Im therefore 
satisfied there was no contributory  negligence on this occasion.
10.In the circumstances  Im satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mr L for 
the loss he suffered  without any reduction, together with interest to compensate him for 
being deprived of the money  he lost.  Im satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the 
money from Mr L it wouldve  remained  in his savings  account,  so interest should be at 
that rate. HSBC  should also refund the £4 charge associated with the international 
payment. 
11.HSBC has admitted  it didnt provide Mr L with the best level of service. It caused delays, 
gave contradictory  information and failed  to keep Mr L updated throughout the process. 
HSBC paid Mr L £300 for the trouble and upset caused. Being the victim of a scam is 
already a very upsetting  situation  to find yourself in, so I would expect HSBC to help its 
customer through the process, rather than make  it more difficult. Im in agreement  that 
the level of service fell below what  I would expect.  However, I believe the £300 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. In reaching  that conclusion  Im mindful  that the callous 
crime was ultimately  committed by the fraudster and Mr L did authorise the transaction   
albeit HSBC could  and should  ultimately have prevented the payment and provided a 
better level of service. 
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank Plc  and I therefore require  the bank to:
Pay Mr L £4,400  within  28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision; plus
Refund the £4 charge;
Pay interest on that sum at the savings  account rate from the date of loss to the date 
of refund. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5297527