K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that a car he got through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Billing finance Ltd 
(Billing Finance) is still faulty despite  having  been repaired. He would like the car properly 
repaired. And a refund  for costs he has incurred in diagnostic  reports  and repairs.  
background
Mr H says he has had three Hire Purchase Agreements with Billing  Finance. Each car has 
had problems. The first two agreements were terminated  by Billing Finance.
Mr H says he took out a third agreement in April 2019.He says he experienced problems 
soon after getting  the car.  And  advised  Billing  Finance  of problems on 25 April 2019. At this 
point an engineer identified water in the front bay of the Signal Acquisition Module (SAM) 
Unit causing oxidisation on the circuit boards. He says the repair cost him £384.00
He says Billing Finance organised an independent  report which  confirmed there were faults 
and these were most likely present or developing at the point of sale.
Mr H says although the report recommended returning the car he wanted  it repaired. So 
repairs were carried out. But Mr H says he still has problems  with the car. He says he has 
paid for a number  of diagnostic reports and repairs that he feels  Billing Finance should 
refund.
He is also not happy that he says he has had fines from the Driver Vehicle and Licensing 
Agency (DVLA) for his previous cars as Billing  Finance  didnt update the car ownership as 
agreed.
He would also like repair costs he has incurred for the car to be refunded.
Billing Finance  said it wouldnt  refund the cost of cleaning the SAM Unit (£384) as it had told 
Mr H not to carry out any work to the car. It offered to unwind the agreement or let Mr H keep 
the car but said that it wouldnt authorise any further  repairs.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She found  that Billing Finance had taken all of Mr Hs 
issues with his three agreements seriously. But she felt for the current car that Mr H had an 
ongoing problem  with the SAM unit that hadnt  been addressed  by the repairs
She felt there were grounds  to reject the car. But accepted Mr H had specific medical 
reasons for preferring  a repair. She recommended that Billing Finance arrange for the car to 
be tested again  for faults identified in the independent report. And if there were still issues  for 
these to be repaired. 
She didnt  think it would be reasonable for Billing  Finance  to pay for repairs that were not 
apparent at the point of sale or were due to wear and tear. She felt most of the invoices Mr H 
provided werent for faults. And noted that Billing  Finance  had agreed to pay £100  for 
diagnostic tests which she felt was reasonable.
She noted that with regard to the DVLA fines she didnt feel Billing Finance were responsible 
for this as Mr H could have dealt  with this himself.
Ref: DRN53458972Mr H didnt accept this view. He said he thought £400 for repairs  to the suspension should 
be covered as this fault was mentioned in independent report. He says he was given an 
option of repair or dissolve the agreement. He wanted a repair. He said the car was currently 
unusable. He felts Billing Finance should  provide a car until either  his current  car is replaced 
or satisfactorily repaired.
Our investigator said she couldnt  recommend  Billing Finance paid for repairs it hasnt 
authorised or been given the opportunity  to investigate before a repair was carried out. 
Billing Finance  suggested the best way forward might be for another  independent inspection  
of the car specifically  to look at the SAM  Unit issue. This second  report  indicated  it was likely 
that the SAM  units needed replacing. But that the faults although present wouldnt have 
been developing at the point of sale.
Our investigator considered the findings of the second independent inspection but didnt 
change her view.  She found the reports to be contradictory with the first indicating  there  was 
a problem with the SAM  unit at the point of sale but the second  report,  although 
acknowledging an issue with the SAM unit, didnt make the same  finding. She felt any 
reasonable person would feel there was a link between the two 
She recommended that Billing Finance allow rejection  of the car as follows:-
:
-the car to be picked  up with no further cost to Mr H
-the agreement  unwound with nothing  further  to pay
-any deposit to be  repaid  with 8% interest
-monthly payments  on the agreement to be refunded from  September 2019  when  the
car became un- driveable - any transport costs incurred during this time should  be
considered as included within this so would not be refunded  in addition.
-£100 diagnostics  test undertaken  in  April 2019 to be refunded  if not already paid
-£152.22 diagnostics  and thermostat costs incurred in July 2019  to  be refunded as 
SAM faults have  been confirmed
- any further costs refunded that were sanctioned by Billing Finance.
She didnt  feel it was appropriate  for the costs of further diagnostics and attempted  repairs 
were refunded as these  were not sanctioned by Billing Finance.
Billing Finance  accepted this view but Mr H didnt.
Mr H initially said he wanted all of his costs,  which he estimated to be £1,007  refunded. But 
in order to resolve the matter said he would agree to half of this cost being refunded 
(£503.50). He also wanted compensation for the inconvenience of the problems with the car.
Our investigator considered these points and got a breakdown  of Mr Hs costs  which  totalled  
£934.08. This was made up of diagnostic and repair costs on the following dates of £383.40  
on 23 April 2019, £152.52 on 16 July 2019 and £398.16 on 14 October  2019.  
Ref: DRN53458973Billing Finance  said it would be happy to pay half of Mr Hs costs  incurred in April and July 
but not in October as it said it had made clear by then it couldnt cover any further  
diagnostics or repair  costs. This totalled £267.96
Our investigator felt this was a fair resolution  particularly as she felt the relationship between 
Mr H and Billing Finance  had broken  down  to the extent further repair  of the car was no 
longer a sensible option. 
At this point she confirmed with Billing Finance that Mr Hs car had been  undriveable since  
August 2019 not September as previously advised. 
Mr H didnt accept this view. He wanted all of his costs refunded. But as a compromise 
asked if Billing Finance  would agree to cover the full cost of the April and July 
diagnostic/repairs. He also queried  why he hadnt  been offered any compensation.
Unfortunately Billing Finance didnt agree to Mr Hs request.  And our investigator  was of the 
view that the compromise she had reached with Billing Finance was fair the decision has 
come for an Ombudsmans  view.
my findings
Mr H feels strongly  about this and I do understand why. He has had three Hire Purchase 
Agreements with Billing Finance all taken  out in 2019. He has had problems with all three 
cars, the first two were returned.  This complaint relates to the third car.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr H has had problems  with his current  car. Mr Hs car 
is a used car which had just under  80,000 miles use when he got it. So I think he does need 
to bear in mind  that a used  car will incur some wear  and tear costs.
Mr H got his car in April 2019  and within the same  month raised problems with 
Billing Finance.  Billing Finance say Mr H told them he had taken the car to an auto engineer  
who discovered water in the front bay of the SAM Unit. Billing Finance say it requested a 
copy of the diagnostic report but asked  Mr H not to arrange for any repairs. 
I dont find that response unreasonable - its likely  repairs so early on in the agreement would 
be paid for by Billing Finance. And it would want to be sure any repairs  were carried out by 
an authorised garage.
It seems  however that Mr H went  ahead  and had the SAM Unit cleaned along with clearing 
of fault codes.  Mr H said the cost of this was £384.  Billing Finance has refused to pay this 
as it didnt authorise this work. As it seems to have made  clear  that Mr H wasnt to arrange 
any repair work himself that doesnt  seem unreasonable to me.
Billing Finance  arranged  an independent  ACE report when Mr H first had problems.   And a 
second independent ACE report after our investigator issued her first view. Ive seen both of 
these reports which were  carried out by the same engineer.
The first report  dated  1 May 2019 stated that there were  a number of fault codes relating to 
multiple issues with the car. It also noted  that the engineer had been  given  a diagnostic print 
out showing 18 fault codes but was told these had been cleared by a third party  and the 
ones now showing were  ones that had recurred. 
Ref: DRN53458974It also noted that the vehicle required significant  in depth diagnostic checking,  possible repair  
or replacement of the front SAM  unit which might be contributing to the electrical issues 
experienced. It didnt,  however, conclusively state  an issue with the SAM unit.
It went on to state it was possible that water ingress  had occurred  due to power 
washing/steam cleaning of the engine bay but had no evidence  to confirm this  And  
concluded these  issues were developing at inception so the car should be returned  to the 
selling agent.
Mr H didnt want the car to be returned. He wanted  it repaired. So the car was then looked at 
and some work carried out after this first report. It doesnt seem  any work was done to the 
SAM unit as no issue was found  when the car was being repaired. 
Mr H thinks this is due to the fact the fault codes  would have been reset to zero when the 
unit was removed and cleaned. Ive no evidence that this was the case.  
However it may be that there wasnt, at that time, a problem with the SAM unit since the first 
report only stated that the SAM unit might need  possible replacement or repair not that it 
did.
As Mr H continued to have problems  with the car which he felt were  down to the SAM Unit 
Billing Finance  arranged  for the car to be inspected again.
The second  independent report concluded that appeared  to be a voltage concern with the 
front and rear SAM units. It noted electrical  failures  such as these can be sudden  and 
sporadic in nature and that this fault wouldnt have  been developing at the point of sale.  It 
didnt conclude there had been any unsuccessful repair but said it was likely the SAM units 
might need  replacing.
In a follow up commentary by ACE on the two reports  ACE noted that at the unauthorised 
repair Mr H first arranged the SAM  unit had been removed and corrosion and oxidisation had 
been found. This indicated potential moisture contamination of the unit.
It said it wasnt clear  if the source of the water  contamination was ever rectified and said if it 
hadnt been this might have caused  the condition to recur and worsen the fault.  It felt on 
balance that the fault was due to the third party repair  rather than a condition  present at the 
point of sale. 
These two independent  reports  both note issues with the SAM unit. The first suggested the 
SAM unit might need repair or replacement but didnt conclusively say that it did. The second  
said there was an issue  with the SAM  unit but felt it was likely that this was due to the repairs  
Mr H first had done to the car may have caused.
We would  normally accept the findings  of independent reports. I dont feel I have conclusive 
evidence that the third party repairs caused  the problems with the SAM unit. But equally I 
dont have any conclusive evidence to show they didnt.
As such I think  that Billing Finance has been  reasonable  in accepting our investigators 
recommendations in allowing Mr H to return the car and to cover some  of his costs.  I think at 
this point I would also agree with our investigators  view that the relationship between 
Billing Finance  and Mr H has broken down. So although Mr H has alternated between wising 
Ref: DRN53458975to accept rejection  of his car or wanting  it repaired  I feel rejection is now the best solution  for 
both parties.
I appreciate Mr H initially wanted all of his costs recovered. But has since compromised a 
fair amount by initially  saying he would accept half of his costs, and then the full costs 
incurred before October 2019.
 
Billing Finance  made it clear in June 2019  that Mr H had the option  of either returning his car 
or unwinding his agreement. Or he could  keep the car but it wouldnt pay for any further 
repairs or diagnostic  reports. It agreed to pay for half of Mr Hs costs incurred in March  and 
July 2019.
Our investigator accepted that as fair and I agree  particularly as the second  independent  
report concluded that ongoing issues with the SAM unit might be due to unauthorised repairs 
more than a problem at the point of sale. Billing Finance might  have  argued  against rejection 
on the basis of this second report but ultimately  hasnt  done so. It feels to me that both sides 
have made  compromises  and the end result  is a fair one in the circumstances.
I know that Mr H has queried why our investigator  didnt recommend  any compensation. I do 
accept Mr H had been put to some  inconvenience  by problems with his car. I think  this is 
acknowledged in the refund of some  of his monthly  payments that our investigator 
recommended and Billing Finance accepted. 
Unfortunately used cars can be subject to maintenance and repair  issues.  And in this case  it 
may be that the repairs Mr H arranged,  despite Billing Finance asking him not to do, 
contributed to the problem. I feel the total of the recommendations  our investigator made are 
adequate and I see no reason to expect Billing finance to pay additional compensation as 
well.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Billing Finance limited should:-
-Take back Mr Hs car at no cost to Mr H.
-Unwind the finance agreement  with  nothing further to pay
-Refund any deposit paid with 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date 
of refund
-Refund monthly payments on the agreement  from August 2019 - any transport costs  
incurred during this time would be included within this so would not be refunded  in 
addition.
-Refund £267.96 to represent  half of the diagnostic/repair costs  incurred  in April and 
July 2019. Any refunds  already  made against  these costs  should be deducted from 
the £267.96
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Ref: DRN53458976Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5345897