K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the way that his claim for storm damage to his property was dealt with 
by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
background
In April 2018 Mr J made  a claim to Lloyds  for storm damage to his home after discovering 
internal water damage to the ceiling in his spare bedroom. Lloyds arranged  for a surveyor  to 
inspect the damage. The survey report found  that there were broken  tiles on the roof. Lloyds 
explained that the damage to the roof was wear and tear and not covered under the policy. It 
further pointed  out that there  were  no storm conditions  at the time the damage occurred. It 
agreed to pay for the internal damage. Mr J obtained an estimate for that damage for 
£547.08. Lloyds  paid that sum, less the £100 excess. 
Mr J asked for the damage  to his roof to be paid by Lloyds. He said he had had three roofers 
look at the damage, all of whom said it was storm damage.  He further  believed  the policy  
was mis-sold to him as he was persuaded by his branch to buy a policy which  he was told 
had better  cover than his previous one. Lloyds reviewed the quotes from Mr Js roofers but 
said none of them advised that it was storm damage.  Lloyds  couldnt  agree that there was a 
mis-sale. 
Subsequently Mr J pointed out that the actual amount he paid was £767.  Lloyds  paid the 
balance in May 2019. Mr J believed the excess had been deducted  twice.
On referral to this service  our investigator  advised  that as there  were  no storm conditions  at 
the time of the claim, and as the policy didnt cover wear and tear, Lloyds had acted  
reasonably in not paying the claim for the damage to the roof. She pointed  out that Lloyds 
hadnt in fact deducted the excess twice. She further said she didnt believe Lloyds had mis-
sold the policy.
Mr J didnt agree and the matter has been  passed  to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
damage to the roof
The damage to the roof assessed  by Lloyds was three cracked tiles. Mr J said Lloyds had 
only looked at the roof from the ground  and there was a lot more damage  than that. He 
contends that three different roofers have told him that the damage was due to storm.
When we consider whether there  was damage  caused by storm we have to consider first of 
all whether there were  storm  conditions  at or around  the time of the claim.  The policyholder 
would have to show to the damage was caused  by a single identifiable storm, not stormy 
weather which  may have  happened over a period  of months. The policy says that in order  for 
the storm cover to apply  there has to be:
Ref: DRN56812002a period of violent weather defined as:
strong winds with gusts of at least 55 mph, sometimes accompanied by rain
The damage was first noticed by Mr J about  a week before  the claim. The weather record for 
the whole  of that week shows windspeeds  of up to a maximum of 38mph.  I dont  think  that is 
sufficient to be identified  as a storm. 
The quotes  Mr J has shown us from roofers show that the under-felting  had failed and there 
were rotten  rafter ends". They dont mention storm damage. All of this shows to me that the 
damage didnt  occur  during one storm but probably  over a long period. Home policies dont 
cover everything that happens to a property,  rather they cover specific perils (like flood, 
fire, storm  etc.). They  arent a substitute for the need  to maintain a property. 
Whilst I agree that the damage appears to have  been more  extensive than cracked roof tiles 
I dont think Lloyds should have been  expected  to carry  out a full survey  from roof level,  
especially as from the records  it didn't  appear that there had been  a storm at the relevant 
time. I appreciate that Mr J didnt know the damage  was occurring, but I cant  find that Lloyds 
is liable  for the roof repair.
not receiving full payment
Mr J believes  that Lloyds  deducted the £100 excess twice. This is because  it deducted  it 
from its first payment  and then referred  to it again when it paid the balance.  Mr Js 
contractors cost was £767. Mr J was paid the cost of the initial estimate of £447.08  net of 
the excess. When he advised Lloyds  hed had to pay £767,  it paid him £219.92.  So it has 
paid a total of £667, the full cost to Mr J less the excess. So he has been  paid his full outlay 
(less the excess) for the claim.
Mr J says his account went overdrawn because he was owed money by Lloyds. I think  from 
considering the records  Lloyds  paid Mr J promptly in respect of the first estimate.  As soon as 
he advised Lloyds  of the balance payable it paid the rest. There arent any other payments 
due.
not replying to letters
After he made his complaint to Lloyds Mr J sent several letters by recorded  delivery  which 
werent replied to. When he rang up the letters were acknowledged but Lloyds said it was 
still considering  his complaint. He sent further letters but hadnt been  advised that Lloyds 
had eight weeks to consider his complaint.
I should explain that, although I understand it was frustrating to Mr J, complaints handling by 
a business isnt a regulated activity and as a consequence I dont have any power  to 
consider complaints about it. I would hope  that in future Lloyds does advise customers  of the 
eight week period so they dont waste their time chasing up any complaints.
mis-sale of policy
Mr J says he was approached in branch and told that Lloyds  could offer him property 
insurance that was cheaper than his current provider with a lot more  cover.  Im not sure what 
Mr J's issue is with the policy is. The full documents were sent to him and he was asked to 
review them  to make sure they suited him. He didnt take up any issue  with Lloyds at the 
time. If he believes  that his old provider  might have covered him for the roof repair,  I would 
Ref: DRN56812003say its most unlikely. All standard home  policies  would  have similar cover  for storm damage 
and wouldnt  cover wear and tear. If he believes that the extra cover promised should have 
covered him, as Ive said, the documents were sent to him with the full cover set out.
I dont think there was any mis-sale of the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5681200