K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained about  a whole of life policy they took out, administered  now 
by Countrywide Assured Plc. They have said, amongst other  things, that they were not kept 
informed of the increase in the cost of their cover.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out the unit linked whole of life policy in January 1987. At that point in 
time the policy provided protection for only Mr T. Mrs T was added to the policy  at a later 
date.
The policy was sold by an independent  financial adviser (IFA) and initially  had
a sum assured  of £20,000. The policy terms and conditions stated it was to be reviewed at 
the policys first five year anniversary and then every five years  thereafter.
The policy was reviewed  in 2002, 2003, 2008  and 2013. It passed all of these reviews  until 
2018 at which point Countrywide  contacted Mr and Mrs T by letter explaining the policy had 
failed its reviews, what this meant  and what options  they had going forward.  The options  
were the standard ones of increasing the premium to maintain  the sum assured  or accepting 
a lower sum assured by keeping  the premiums the same. Mr and Mrs T took no action in 
response to this letter so Countrywide reverted to the standard default position of lowering 
the sum assured because the premiums were to be kept the same.
Its important to note that in 1997  and 2010,  Mr and Mrs T partially  surrendered the policy,  in 
other words, they took cash out of the policy.
In making their complaint Mr and Mrs T have said:
They thought  the policy was a savings plan where the life insurance element was just 
an add on.
They werent told the premiums would increase over time and they were under the 
impression the premiums and the sum assured were fixed  for the entirety  of the 
policy. 
Theyre unhappy that units have been  deducted  without their knowledge.
Theyre unhappy they received a letter in 2013  which said the premiums  were 
enough to maintain  the life cover  for ten years but then didnt  hear anything  until five 
years later when they were then told their premiums had to increase.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it should  be partially 
upheld. She was of the view the policy had been administered  correctly by Countrywide.  The 
fact the policy  would be reviewed was set out on the terms and conditions  which  
Mr and Mrs T would  have  been given when they took the policy out. She also felt 
Countrywide had kept Mr and Mrs T as informed as it had to. However,  she did feel that the 
letter sent to Mr and Mrs T in 2013 which  confirmed  the policy had passed another review 
and the premium should be enough  to sustain the life cover benefit for another ten years 
was misleading  given they then received a letter five years later explaining that they had to 
increase their premium  to maintain the sum assured. For this she felt £150  should be paid to 
Mr and Mrs T.
Countrywide didnt  agree with the assessment. It said the annual statements were to provide 
policy information in relation to the sum assured and the premiums  paid in that year and 
Ref: DRN52382202confirm the policy value. It felt they were not designed to give an indication of what would 
happen in the future  and so shouldnt be relied  upon.
Mr and Mrs T also disagreed with the assessment. They felt £150 didnt recognise  the 
trouble and the upset they had experienced due to the misleading information  and also that 
it didnt address their point that Countrywide started to sell off [their]  shares in 2016 and 
failed to notify [them].  They also felt that when Countrywide became aware  that the 
premium wasnt  sufficient  to maintain the policy it should have written to them then and not 
wait until the next review  date.
The investigator considered the comments raised  by both parties  but wasnt  persuaded to 
change her initial outcome. So as no agreement  has been reached the complaint has been 
passed to me to review for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld,  in part.
Firstly its important to point  out that the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs T by an IFA. So 
I cant comment on what was said to them about the policy  by the IFA, what impression they 
may have  been  given  about the policy  or whether the policy  was suitable for them. All I can 
look at in this decision  is whether Countrywide as administrators  of the policy  has acted  
correctly in all its done.
I think its important to clarify what the policy actually is and how it works because  in making 
their complaint Im not sure Mr and Mrs T understand it.
The policy is a whole  of life policy which means there is no set term when the policy ends.  A 
whole of life policy remains  in force providing the necessary payments are made until the life 
assured under the policy dies, at which point  a lump sum payment (sum assured) is made  
into the estate  of the deceased.
A regular  premium is paid into the policy and the premium and sum assured are set on the 
basis of (but not limited to) future  assumptions  about charges, investment performance and 
mortality charges (essentially the cost of providing life assurance).  The premiums  are 
invested in one or more investment funds. And deductions  are then made  from the 
investment element of the policy  to pay for the costs involved. These include providing the 
life cover and administering the policy. Any money  not used for this builds up in the policy. 
At the outset the business makes  a judgment  when it provides the plan as to what  premium 
will be required, long term, to provide an investment fund large enough to supply a sum of 
life cover until the policyholder dies.
The business will then undertake a review of the policy  on a regular basis  - usually  after the 
first ten years and then at regular intervals  after that. The purpose  of the review is to test if 
the policy is able to continue providing the chosen level of life cover  at the level of premium 
being paid. If it is not, the consumer will usually  be offered the option  of reducing the sum 
assured, or increasing the premium. 
Ref: DRN52382203When reviewing the policy, if the growth rates now being used are a lot lower  than those  
originally assumed some years ago, then this can have a great  effect on whether  the 
financial business believes  the plans sum assured  will be sustainable.
It is generally a combination of the above  factors which triggers  an adverse review requiring 
changes to the policy. But this is a normal consequence of a reviewable plan and the 
possibility of an unfavourable review was always a part and a risk of the policy.
Therefore it can be seen that its very normal for these types of policies  to be reviewed and 
for policy holders  to be required  at some point to pay more  into the policy  if they want  to 
keep a certain level of sum assured. It is also standard practice for units that make  up the 
policy to be deducted  if enough isnt being  paid in to maintain the sum assured. I therefore  
dont think in light of this that at this stage Countrywide has done anything  wrong in the way 
it has administered the policy.
Now turning to what Mr and Mrs T knew about the policy, looking at the paperwork provided  
to them  at the point of sale it sets out clearly  in the terms and conditions  that the policy 
would be reviewed every five years and why this would happen. It also sets out what may 
happen as a result of those reviews and what options the policyholders  would have in those 
certain circumstances.
Also, I know  Mr and Mrs T received the policy review letters  for all the reviews  the policy 
passed prior to 2018 which explained  the policy had been reviewed and that their premium 
was enough at that point  to maintain the current sum assured.
So between both sets of information I think Mr and Mrs T should  have  been  aware  that the 
policy was reviewable  and that this could mean their premiums could increase and the sum 
assured could decrease. Nothing  in any of these documents  infer that their premiums and 
sum assured were fixed.
I therefore think Countrywide satisfied its obligations  to communicate this to Mr and Mrs T. 
And other than the statements and letters informing them of the reviews it didnt have to 
provide anything further to Mr and Mrs T as it was their responsibility to ensure they were 
fully aware of what sort of policy they had taken and how it would work.
I appreciate the IFA may have told them the policy was something different but as Ive 
already said I cant consider this. And from what  I can consider I am satisfied  Countrywide  
provided the right information about the policy to Mr and Mrs T so they should  have known.
Mr and Mrs T have  raised the issue that Countrywide started  to sell their shares  in 2016 
without their knowledge. I think that by saying shares they actually  mean the units  that 
make up their policy because no shares  are actually involved in this policy.
As already stated  above, it is very normal for units to be sold if enough isnt going  into the 
policy to maintain the sum assured. I have clarified  this with Countrywide  and it has 
explained that when the policy  was reviewed in 2013 and passed  the review,  this was based 
on growth rate assumptions of 6%. But in 2014 it lowered its growth rate assumptions and 
they have since  been based  on 4.5%.   Had this happened before the 2013 review, it is likely  
it would  have failed  that review.  
Due to the lower growth rate assumptions, at some point since  then and before the policy 
was reviewed again in 2018, the units had to start to be deducted  to maintain the cost of the 
life cover.   This would have been shown in statements  as negative accumulation  units.  
Ref: DRN52382204However, Countrywide is not contractually obliged to inform policyholders in between 
reviews about the deduction of units (it would  if the policy hit zero units).   And as already 
said, reviews are only based on projections,  are not guaranteed and are dependent  on unit 
price and performance. So while  I understand it would  have been  worrying for Mr and Mrs T 
to see their units being sold without prior knowledge,  Countrywide  is able to do this if the 
policy required.
Now turning to the issue of misleading  information  and the award of £150  the investigator  
suggested. The 2013 review letter does state that the review aims to check  the current 
premium is sufficient to maintain the level of life cover and any additional benefits for the 
next ten years. I appreciate this was also stated in the 2003 and 2008 review  letters.  But the 
premium didnt change  at the reviews that followed these letters  so I can understand to a 
degree why Mr and Mrs T didnt query this at those points  in time.
Overall, I know the premium is designed  to cover for ten years  and it does  have to take 
account of performance  and any other  relevant factors and this is why the policy  is reviewed 
every five year because the premium calculated is based on estimates.  Also the policy terms 
and conditions do confirm  the policy is reviewed every five years and that the review takes 
into account the actual unit performance over the period and other relevant factors.
However, this is all predicated on the policyholders  having an understanding  of the type of 
policy they took out and how it worked. And given the complaint Mr and Mrs T have raised 
and the arguments they have put forward  I think its clear Mr and Mrs T werent  fully aware  of 
any of this.
Therefore, when they received the letter in 2013  about the premiums being set for the next 
ten years, even  though  this is the same  as the previous  review  letters,  having  then received  
another review  letter five years later saying their premiums had to increase I can understand 
why in their specific situation they may have  gotten confused. Therefore because of the 
impact this had had on them specifically, I agree with the suggestion  made by the 
investigator that £150 should be paid in recognition of this.
Overall I dont think Countrywide has done  anything wrong in its administration  of the policy. 
The policy was reviewable  so there  was always going to be a point where the premiums 
were not going  to be able to sustain the desired sum assured. This is even more prevalent 
given Mr and Mrs T partially surrendered the policy on two previous occasions  thereby 
reducing the value  in the policy which would always have a knock on effect  on the future  
premium reviews.
However, I do agree that given Mr and Mrs Ts lack of understanding of the policy that the 
letter in 2013  would  have been  misleading  to a degree so I think Countrywide  should pay 
£150 in recognition of this.
Ref: DRN52382205my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Countrywide Assured Plc should pay 
Mr and Mrs T £150 to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5238220