K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV)  hasnt paid a claim under 
his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr C was due to fly from the United Kingdom to the Caribbean in March  2019, for around 
two weeks. Once on the plane, but before it took off, Mr C says he suffered from a panic 
attack. When he didnt  feel any better, he says he got off the plane and didnt end up flying 
as planned.
Mr C made  a claim on his travel insurance policy for his cancelled  holiday. He went  to his 
GP in April 2019 and got a medical  certificate,  which he gave to ERV as part of his claim. 
Mr C says ERV told him that he would  need  another medical certificate  written  in full by the 
GP, with no written input  from him, as the original had sections that he had completed  
himself. Mr C went back to his GP later that month and gave  a second medical certificate  to 
ERV in support  of his claim.  Mr C was due to fly on 20 March 2019  and his first medical  
certificate is dated 1 April 2019.  The second  is dated 11 April 2019.  
When it had reviewed the information  provided,  ERV declined Mr Cs claim. It said that no 
medical evidence  could be supplied by a doctor  who saw Mr C at the time the illness  
presented itself. So, because the medical  certificates that Mr C sent ERV were retrospective, 
and not from the point  of cancellation,  the claim was declined.
Unhappy with ERVs  response,  Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator  
looked into things  and upheld Mr Cs complaint. She thought that Mr C had made an 
appointment with his GP as soon  as he was able to and that, given the circumstances, this 
was always going  to be after he was due to have travelled. So, she didnt think  it was fair for 
ERV to decline Mr Cs claim on this basis. ERV disagreed with our investigators  view. It said 
that the comments from the doctor  were  retrospective. It also couldnt  see any reason why 
Mr C didnt see a doctor  earlier than he did. 
Our service has spoken to Mr C to get a full understanding of what  happened  on the day and 
he was able to provide  a detailed account  of events. He explained that he felt unwell and 
when he didnt feel any better, he got off the plane. He said he was taken back  through  the 
airport by a member of staff, before he collected his luggage and went  back  home. Following 
the conversation, Mr C sent us a copy of the baggage receipt given to him by the airport  on 
the day that he was due to travel. 
The case  has now come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.  
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The cancellation section  of Mr Cs policy  says the following:
Ref: DRN52632362This section of the Policy  sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in total 
per Insured  Journeyfollowing necessary and unavoidable cancellation of a Trip.
A.All travel charges that You have paid and/or are contracted  to pay before the 
departure date and cannot recover in respect of any part of the Trip that You are 
necessarily required to cancel as a result  of: 
1. Your accidental Bodily Injury or Illness or death  (or that of a Relative, a Close        
Business Associate or a friend with whom  You have  arranged to travel  or stay)
Mr C has sent us evidence from the booking agent that his flights were cancelled and he 
didnt receive any refund  for this. Mr C has also sent us medical evidence  which  shows that 
his doctor  thought cancellation was medically  necessary. Having considered  this, Im 
satisfied Mr C has shown this was a necessary and unavoidable cancellation of his trip. So, 
under the terms  of his policy, I think that he has a valid claim for the cancellation of his trip.
ERV declined Mr Cs claim on the basis that no evidence could be supplied  by a doctor who 
saw him at the time the illness presented itself, in order to confirm  whether he was fit to 
travel. Given  that Mr C had fallen  ill whilst  already on the plane, but didnt need an 
ambulance or medical assistance on the plane,  the evidence from a GP was always  going to 
be after the time the illness had presented itself and, therefore, retrospective. So, Ive 
considered whether I think Mr C consulted  a GP within  a reasonable period of time following 
the event. Mr C has told us he made  an appointment  with a GP as soon  as one was 
available  and this was 12 days after the event. Ive thought about this carefully. I dont 
think this was a disproportionately long time and I think its plausible  that it may have taken 
around 12 days for an appointment to become available. 
By the time he returned  home from the airport, the reason he was too unwell to fly  a panic 
attack as a result of being in a confined space on a plane  had already passed and so I 
dont think it wouldve been  appropriate  for Mr C to go to the accident  & emergency 
department, for example. It was appropriate that he booked a GPs appointment. And, taking 
into account the time it can take to do this, I dont find it concerning  or suspicious that he 
didnt get the first medical certificate  until 1 April 2019. So, Im satisfied that Mr C did what  he 
could at the time to book an appointment with a GP as soon as he could. Therefore, I dont 
think ERVs reason for declining  Mr Cs claim is fair in this particular matter. 
Ref: DRN52632363Overall, I find Mr Cs version of events plausible and, having reviewed all the information 
available to me, I think its more likely that he did fall ill whilst on the plane and that it was 
necessary for him to cancel his trip as a result of this. Taking everything into account,  I think 
it would  be fair and reasonable for ERV to settle Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining 
terms, conditions, excesses and limits of his policy,  together with interest. It follows  that I 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to:
settle Mr Cs travel  insurance claim in line with the remaining terms, conditions, 
excesses and limits of his policy,  and;
add interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of the claim up until the date 
settlement is paid*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020
Hana Yousef
ombudsman 
*If ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr C a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for once, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN5263236