K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about charges within a target return portfolio provided by Aberdeen 
Standard Capital Limited (ASC). He also raises  concerns about the poor performance of 
the portfolio, in particular of the Strategic Investment Allocation (SIA) Fund.
background
Mr S invested his SIPP within a target return portfolio managed by ASC (then Standard Life 
Wealth). The target was set at LIBOR +3%. 
Mr S complains about poor performance of the portfolio, in particular, of the SIA fund, which  
made up just over 30% of the portfolio.  Mr S believes  the fund was mismanaged. Mr S 
transferred his SIPP to a new provider in August 2018.
Mr S says that ASC were not transparent about charges levied within the portfolio.  He 
understood that percentage  fees were  being applied by ASC and his independent financial 
adviser (IFA) but was unaware that additional annual management charges would also 
apply. Mr S says these only came to light in 2018.  He feels he was misled, especially as 
these charges did not appear on his quarterly  statements. Mr S says that had he been aware 
of the overall fees and charges, he would have transferred sooner.
ASC say that Mr Ss adviser was responsible for assessing suitability of the portfolio.  The 
overall portfolio  was then managed by ASC on a discretionary  basis  in line with the risk 
mandate, with regular  reviews attended by the adviser and Mr S. The SIA fund was a fund 
within the portfolio  with a separate fund manager.  The diversification of assets within  the SIA 
fund offset the risks taken elsewhere  in the portfolio, by investing in sources which didnt 
correlate to traditional asset classes  and by hedging strategies to remove  exposure from 
underlying markets. So, the SIA fund itself should not be viewed in isolation. Historically the 
target return portfolios  had performed  well, but ASC accept that that the portfolio failed to hit 
target in 2015-2018.
ASC were transparent  about the funds  performance  at the regular  review  points. They  
acknowledge the performance was disappointing,  but say the portfolio  was managed  within 
Mr Ss risk profile.  In or around August 2018  they took steps to redress the poor 
performance of the SIA fund, taking the decision to dispose of some  of the SIA fund and 
some other assets within the portfolio. By this point, Mr S had already transferred his SIPP  to 
another provider.
As to charges,  ASC say that information  was given that additional annual  management  
charges could apply.  This was also discussed at a meeting in 2015  and information was 
shared with Mr Ss IFA.
Since the introduction of the Markets in Financial Instrument  Directive II (MiFID II) ASC had 
made changes to increase transparency around the charges, but say the requirement to 
provide this level of detail  wasnt retrospective.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He acknowledged  that ASC could have  been  
clearer about the charges, but overall thought they had provided  enough  information  for Mr S 
to understand  that additional management  charges would  apply. Further, the discretionary 
fund management  charges were a matter Mr Ss IFA should have identified and advised 
upon when considering suitability of the portfolio for Mr S.
Ref: DRN58420822Our investigator took into account that the SIA fund was used to manage volatility within the 
portfolio. Performance  of the SIA fund was comparable to other hedge funds. Further  ASC 
hadnt provided any guarantees as to performance. Overall, he considered that the portfolio 
had been managed in line with the mandate  and it was appropriate for the charges to have 
been paid. 
Mr S did not agree  with the view. He remained concerned about the overall  poor 
performance of the portfolio and thought the changes made in August 2018 amounted to an 
acknowledgement that errors had been  made.  He repeated that ASC led him to believe only 
percentage fees applied  for ASC and the IFA.
Our investigator remained satisfied that ASC had made Mr S aware that external funds had 
separate charges. It wasnt surprising that the SIA fund performed differently as it used 
alternative investments  that reduced  volatility  and subsequent changes in response to a 
period of poor performance were  to be expected. There was nothing  to show  
mismanagement, rather the strategies deployed  within the portfolio hadnt paid off.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has therefore come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important  that I explain at the outset that I will not be considering the suitability of the 
recommendation to invest and remain  invested  within this particular target return  portfolio, 
which contained the SIA fund. Any such complaint lies against the provider  of that advice.  
Performance and SIA fund
Ive considered the information from the time.  ASC presented Mr S and his adviser with two 
target return portfolio  options in 2011. The proposal described the SIA fund as, 
a unique  proposition designed to reduce volatility within clients portfolios. The fund uses 
derivative positions  to make uncorrelated investments and hedge certain underlying risks 
within the portfolios.  These strategies are usually only available  to institutional investors. . . . 
The SIA Fund allows  your Client Portfolio Manager to balance the potential risks in the main 
portfolio by investing in vehicles that behave differently to the main  portfolio investments.
Mr S invested in a portfolio with a target  return of LIBOR +3%.  The proposal explained that 
the split of assets would  be around 38% in equities, 27% in bonds  and 35% of the market  
exposure would be within the SIA fund.  The fund itself used strategies such  as: currency 
pairing and investment  in other stock markets  (Global equities). This resulted in the overall 
makeup of the portfolio  being different to a conventional  multi-asset portfolio. 
 
As our investigator has explained the SIA fund performed differently as it was used to reduce 
volatility. The nature  of the hedging strategies used in the SIA fund meant that when 
traditional assets performed well, the SIA fund was likely to underperform. In an email  from 
July 2018 ASC gave an example saying, If the UK market is up, the UK equity funds should 
be increasing in value whilst the corresponding hedge in the Strategic Investment Allocation  
Ref: DRN58420823fund will be down. In this scenario we are looking at both of the trades and the resultant net 
performance. If markets  are negative however the UK equity  funds will lose value whilst the 
hedge will increase  in value. There was a risk that underperformance in the SIA fund would 
act as a drag on the rest of the portfolio. The initial proposal also contained a generic risk 
warning that the value  of investments could go down as well as up and past performance 
was not a guide to future performance.
Overall the portfolio was said to be suitable for Mr S as a medium  investor, defined  as, 
You are prepared to accept an average amount  of risk during  the time horizon  of your 
investment but have  a strong  desire  to each  your goal. You are looking for a balance of risk 
and reward, with the aim that in the longer term, higher returns  may result  than from a lower 
risk portfolio . You are willing to accept  that the value of your investment will rise and fall and 
you may get back less than you invest. 
Its clear from the contemporaneous  reviews and correspondence, that the portfolio did not 
perform as expected  from 2015  to 2018 and the SIA fund did not operate as had been 
anticipated. It also isnt disputed that poor performance of the SIA fund was openly  
discussed. Both the adviser and Mr S also received quarterly  statements and could  access 
information about performance of the portfolio online. I dont doubt that Mr S was 
disappointed with the results. But Ive also seen that no guarantees were made. 
I havent seen  anything to show that the strategy  in using the SIA fund to manage volatility 
and the subsequent steps taken to reduce exposure to that fund in 2018,  amounted  to 
anything other than the legitimate exercise  of commercial judgement in managing a portfolio. 
The fact that the risk of underperformance of the portfolio materialised, does not 
automatically mean that ASC did anything wrong.  In the absence of any evidence that ASC 
mismanaged the portfolio  - and the performance of the portfolio and the SIA fund alone isnt 
evidence of this  I am unable to say that ASC have done anything wrong in overall  
management of the portfolio. 
And even  if I thought  that ASC had managed  the portfolio above the risk level in the 
mandate, I cant fairly say now that Mr S would have done  anything differently. Thats 
because Mr S maintained  his investment  in the portfolio  despite  regular unfavourable 
reviews and meetings  taking place with ASC. 
Fees
Mr S says that he wasnt told about  additional  annual management charges (AMCs)  and was 
only told about the fees charged by ASC and his IFA. When  the complaint was brought  to 
our service,  Mr S said he only became aware of the charges in 2018.  Im mindful that 
memories fade with time and these discussions took place many  years ago. So, Ive also 
considered the written  documents from the time. 
The proposal document of 2011 under the section fees and contractual  arrangements,  
indicated that funds would have separate charges:
Where there are underlying fund investments we aim to secure preferential (institutional) 
terms.
Mr S signed  a tariff of charges in 2013,  which contained a highlighted box headed Important  
Information regarding  your Standard Life Wealth charges  within  which it stated:
Ref: DRN58420824 . .  where your portfolio contains fund-based investments these funds may have an 
embedded annual management charge  and expenses. . . Charges which  are payable by you 
will be debited  from your assets. 
A review of fees and charges from February  2015  said:
Externally managed  funds
. . . .additional costs will apply to all collective  investment funds and historically this has 
always been a feature  of the overall costs paid by you.
In addition, Ive considered notes from a meeting on 7 December 2015, between  Mr S, his 
IFA and ASC, which record,  The fees for the portfolio  were  discussed, as he was not aware 
of the underlying AMCs. I expect X had mentioned it but it had not stuck. A discount is in 
place  . . . Part of the discussion  was about what else SLW have available  on lower totals 
fees. . .
I consider that it is more  likely than not that Mr S is mistaken in his recollection as to what he 
was told about  the underlying charges for funds  within the portfolio. The contemporaneous  
documents and notes  show  that Mr S was made  aware of AMCs. I think  its helpful to also 
explain that these  charges  were separate to the fees charged  by ASC for the providing 
discretionary fund management  service for the overall portfolio and from the fees charged by 
the IFA for providing  advice. On balance, Im not persuaded  that the first Mr S knew  about 
the charges was 2018. 
In an email from Mr S to ASC in 2018,  Mr S questioned whether the fund managers had their 
fingers on the pulse and went onto say,
. . . the only thing that has been  predictable have been the fees taken from the fund which 
are xxx even before the additional fund management accounting fees which I understand  are 
another xxx. . As I have repeatedly said. . .I dont worry  about  fees IF I am getting  a decent 
net return.
Whilst I understand that Mr S feels that clearer  information  could  have been  presented  about 
the amount of these charges, the requirement to be more transparent about fees and 
charges didnt come into effect until 2018  and wasnt retrospective. So, I dont  think ASC 
were required  to say anything more to Mr S.
ASC also say that the fund charges were shared with Mr Ss IFA and whilst I havent  seen  
correspondence to support that, it is relevant that Mr S was receiving professional advice 
from an IFA as to the ongoing  suitability of the portfolio, which  would have included  
consideration of the fees and charging structure.  The meeting notes of December  2015  
show that despite Mr S raising general  concerns to both ASC and his IFA, he chose to 
remain invested and did not question the charges in later meetings. On balance,  Im not 
persuaded that Mr S would have transferred earlier even if more detailed  information had 
been provided.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S, I wont  be upholding  the complaint.
Ref: DRN58420825my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5842082