K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that Aston Lark Limited arranged  an unsuitable home 
insurance policy for them with the result that they had inadequate  cover when they suffered 
damage to their contents. 
background
In April 2017, Mr and Mrs O bought a derelict  property which they intended to renovate.  
They insured  it through  a home insurance  policy arranged by Aston  Lark. The policy 
provided cover for contents up to £50,000.
In April 2018, shortly before the policy was due to renew, Mr and Mrs O discovered that their 
garage had a leak and this had resulted in damage to belongings which they had been  
storing in it. They  made a claim  under their policy but the insurer pointed out that cover  for 
contents stored in a garage was limited  to £5,000.
Mr and Mrs O complained  to Aston  Lark. They said they had informed it that they would be 
storing their belongings in the garage. They wanted  it to pay the difference  between  the 
insurance settlement  and their actual loss.
Aston Lark didnt uphold  their complaint. It said it had no record  of Mr and Mrs O telling them  
that their contents would be stored  in the garage and had no reason to assume that this was 
being done. It said it therefore  couldnt  be held responsible for the shortfall in their cover.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with Aston  Larks  response. They referred  their complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows: 
Mr O first contacted  Aston Lark in February 2017. The telephone note records that he was 
thinking of buying a run down but characterful  property. There  was a general discussion 
about the issues which needed to be considered  from an insurance point of view.  There  was 
no mention of possibly  storing items  in a garage. Mr O said he would  come  back  to Aston  
Lark if he went  ahead with the purchase.
A few days  after the telephone discussion, the adviser emailed Mr O with the names of some 
recommended surveyors.  He also attached some information about  a Contract All Risks 
(CAR) insurance policy. This included  a CAR  questionnaire in Word and PDF format.
The next contact  was an email from Mr O to Aston Larks adviser on 14 April 2107.  He 
reminded the adviser of their earlier telephone  conversation  and said he was hoping to 
complete the purchase of the property on 28 April 2017. He explained that a survey had 
been carried out and that he would forward the surveyors report. He said he was looking for 
a quote and asked the adviser to give him a call.
The file shows that later that day, after Mr O had forwarded the survey report, the adviser 
compiled a quotation request form on his behalf. This must  have  been  after speaking  to 
Mr O because it contained details  of his plans for the property. The form noted that Mr and 
Mrs O would be resident in three or four rooms while working on each room in the property 
in turn. It also noted that they wanted  £50,000 of contents cover but there was no mention  of 
these contents  being stored in the garage.
Ref: DRN54084772The adviser found a suitable insurer but the insurer had certain  questions. The adviser 
therefore rang Mr O on 21 April 2017 to get more information about the work he would be 
carrying out. The telephone note confirmed that Mr and Mrs O would be moving into the 
property almost immediately and outlined what work Mr O said he would be doing initially.  
This included securing  the windows and doors.  Once the initial work was done, Mr O 
reiterated that he would be updating  each room on a rolling basis.
The adviser relayed  this information to the insurer and it agreed  to provide cover. This was 
subject to Mr and Mrs O updating their security within  30 days of the policy starting.
On 26 April 2017, the adviser  wrote to Mr and Mrs O enclosing the full policy documents  and 
drawing attention to the need to update  their security.
There is no mention in any of the file notes that Mr and Mrs O were  intending  to store  their 
belongings in the garage. The notes are not a verbatim record of everything which was said 
but they are reasonably thorough. I think it likely that if Mr O had mentioned  this, it would 
have been recorded in the telephone note.
Mr O says that he mentioned it on the CAR  questionnaire which he completed  and returned 
to Aston Lark. However, when he emailed Aston  Lark on 14 April 2017 he did not mention 
the questionnaire,  from which I infer he hadnt  returned it at this stage. And the adviser  
completed the quotation request form that day, apparently after speaking  directly to Mr O. So 
there would have been no need  after that for Mr O to have completed and returned the CAR 
questionnaire, particularly as he wasnt seeking  that type of insurance.    
In view of the above, I think  it unlikely that before taking out the policy Mr O told Aston Lark 
either over the telephone or in writing that he was intending to store  items in the garage. 
Indeed, in a later email after hed made his complaint, he said:  The garages were  covered 
in heavy vegetation at the time but were dry when we moved in  Thus  using them to store 
most of our contents. I consider that this implies he only made the decision to use the 
garage for storage on the day he moved  to the property.
The investigator appeared to base his recommendation that the complaint should be upheld 
largely on the fact that he thought it was unlikely that Mr O would have stored  items in the 
garage without ensuring that he was covered for this under the policy.  However, I would find 
it equally, if not more,  unlikely  that Aston Larks adviser, having been made aware that items  
were being  stored in the garage, would have  not bothered to record and consider this. This 
is because I consider that the adviser  was very likely  to be aware that the policy may place a 
limit on the sum assured  for items stored  in a garage and the rest of the advisers work in 
respect of this application appears thorough.
There were further dealings between Mr O and Aston Lark once the policy  had started and 
he says that he again  mentioned that his possessions  were being stored in the garage. 
However, the telephone notes once again  dont record this. And for the same reasons given 
above, I again think it unlikely that he told Aston  Lark of this.
Furthermore, unless Mr and Mrs O told it so, I see no reason why Aston Lark should have 
suspected that they might  be using the garage to store their belongings.
Not only had Mr and Mrs O said they were going to be using several  rooms  in the house but, 
in respect of the garage,  the survey  report they provided to Aston  Lark stated:
Ref: DRN54084773The flat roof to the double garage is in poor condition  and has rips and tears evident 
to the kerb edges  and an internal inspection through the side window of the garage  
there is evidence of a leak through the timber deck that is fixed to timber joists.
The rainwater goods to the garage were half rounded  PVCu  with matching 
downpipes. They require  repair and clearing.
The windows to the garage were  single glazed  timber framed.  The frames require 
redecoration and the pane  to each of the two windows required replacement.
The metal doors to the garage were  locked with padlocks and we cannot confirm  if 
the doors are in working  order.
I consider that this indicates the garage  was not in good condition.  I therefore see no reason 
why Aston  Lark should have believed that Mr and Mrs O might be using this building to store  
their belongings rather than the house.  And given that Mr and Mrs O were required to 
upgrade their security  within 30 days of moving in, I consider there was certainly no reason 
to suppose their contents were not stored within the house after this time.
After Aston Lark had issued its final response letter on Mr and Mrs Os complaint, Mr O 
provided a letter from the surveyor stating that the garage was secure and dry with minimal  
damage. Aston Lark challenged the surveyor on this, pointing out that this conflicted with 
what his original survey report had said. Mr O then acknowledged that he may have 
inadvertently misled the surveyor and asked for the surveyors  letter to be disregarded. 
I recognise that Mr O apologised to Aston Lark and the surveyor  for his mistake but 
I consider the incident doesnt  reflect well on Mr Os credibility. And that is relevant here 
because I am effectively being  asked to take Mr Os word over that of Aston Lark about what 
was discussed  over the telephone.
The policy document which was sent to Mr and Mrs O in April 2017 stated that cover for 
contents stored in a garage was restricted to £5,000. Aston  Lark didnt specifically highlight 
this but it isnt an unusual clause and, as I have explained, I consider Aston Lark had no 
reason to suppose  it was important to Mr and Mrs O. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs O who apparently will not be fully covered under their 
insurance policy for their loss. However,  I consider that they havent reasonably shown 
Aston Lark to be at fault in this matter.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs O said they were  disappointed by my provisional decision.  They  said they had 
definitely informed  Aston  Lark that the possessions were being  stored  in the garage. They  
acknowledged they had made errors,  including in choosing to store their belongings in a 
building which was not adequately protected from the rain. But they felt that Aston Lark had 
made more  errors, including  in not fully recording all the information it had been  given.  They 
felt they were paying the price for Aston Larks administrative failings.  
Aston Lark accepted  my provisional  decision.
 
Ref: DRN54084774my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs O are understandably disappointed with my provisional  decision. 
However, while they still insist that they informed  Aston Lark of their decision to store  their 
items in the garage, I have already explained  why I consider the evidence suggests they 
didnt do so. And while Mr and Mrs O have expressed frustration over what  they see as 
Aston Larks poor record keeping, they havent  really provided any further  arguments  or 
evidence to cause  me to change my mind over what information they gave to Aston Lark.
I am sorry  for Mr and Mrs O who have suffered a loss for which  they now find their insurance  
will not provide full cover. However,  I remain  of the opinion that they havent shown 
Aston Lark to be at fault in this matter.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2020. 
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5408477