K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Mapfre Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) has rejected Mr Gs claim under  their travel insurance policy 
when Mr G cancelled their holiday because  of his health.
background
Mr and Mrs G booked a holiday, but just before they were due to leave Mr G visited his GP 
as he was suffering  considerable  discomfort from cervicalgia (a neck injury).  His GP also 
noted that he had mildly  elevated  blood pressure. Mr G felt that due to his high blood 
pressure, pain, and the stress of feeling quite unwell, he should cancel their holiday.
Mr G made  a claim on their travel insurance policy with Mapfre, and provided a medical 
certificate from his GP, as required by his policy. This said that the medical condition giving 
rise to the claim was concerns  about Mr Gs blood pressure. Mr G wasnt  advised by his GP 
to cancel his holiday due to his blood  pressure issues.
Mapfre declined Mr Gs claim,  and referred  to the term of his policy relating to cancellation of 
travel on health grounds. The relevant section states:
Section A:
Cancellation or Curtailment Charges
What is Covered
We will pay You, up to the amount shown in the Policy Schedule, for any irrecoverable  
unused travel and accommodation  costs and other  pre-paid charges (including  sports, 
concert and entertainment  tickets) which You have  paid or are contracted to pay together  
with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if:
a) Cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable as a result of any of the following 
events occurring; 
1. The death,  Bodily Injury, illness or Complications  of Pregnancy and Childbirth:
a)You
b)..
Special Conditions Relating to Claims
2. If You cancel the Trip due to Bodily  Injury, illness or complications arising as a direct result 
of pregnancy, You must  provide a medical certificate  from the Medical Practitioner of the 
person whose condition has led to the cancellation  stating this was necessary and 
unavoidable. (My emphasis added in bold) . 
Mapfre noted that Mr Gs GP hadnt  stated that because  of Mr Gs health condition, it was 
necessary and unavoidable for him to cancel his holiday, and this was a condition  of a 
claim under the policy.
Following Mapfres rejection of Mr Gs claim, Mr Gs GP wrote  to Mapfre  to explain that Mr 
Gs cervicalgia  had had a part to play in his reason for cancelling his holiday. Mapfre noted 
that Mr Gs GP still didnt say that it was medically  necessary for Mr G to have cancelled his 
holiday, and said that this was a decision that Mr G had taken independently.  
Ref: DRN56408452Mr G thinks Mapfres  decision  to reject his claim  is unfair. He says his decision to cancel 
wasnt taken lightly and he didnt  want to put his wife and fellow travellers at risk.  He 
maintains that although his GP had felt he was able to travel,  he felt it was in his best 
interests not to travel  due to his heightened blood  pressure because  of his pain.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered that Mapfre  hadnt 
acted unreasonably in rejecting his claim. As Mr G wasnt happy  with our investigators  view, 
hes asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman. His complaint has therefore 
now been referred to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I have sympathy  for Mr G given the 
circumstances in which he cancelled  his holiday,  Im not able to uphold  his complaint, and Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked at the medical certificate completed  by Mr Gs GP. In this, when asked to state 
whether,  in your opinion the patient is fit to travel  at the time of departure , the GP answers 
yes.
 In answer to the request  Please state the exact  date you advised the need to cancel, the 
GP wrote Not advised to cancel.
In response to the question Are you prepared  to certify that, solely due to the condition 
described in 4 above [the concern regarding blood pressure],  the claimants are compelled  to 
cancel the holiday  arrangements? The GP responded No.
I think its very clear from the medical  certificate that Mr Gs GP considered  that Mr G was fit 
to travel despite his elevated blood pressure.
Ive also considered the further letter that Mr Gs GP provided following the initial rejection of 
Mr Gs claim in which he added that Mr Gs cervicalgia had a part to play in Mr Gs decision 
to cancel his holiday. Significantly, despite  being  aware that Mr Gs claim had been rejected 
because he hadnt  stated in his certificate  that cancellation was necessary and unavoidable,  
he didnt use this fresh opportunity to express  that view.  He also confirmed that the decision 
to cancel was Mr Gs decision.
So my opinion on Mr and Mrs Gs complaint is that the requirement of the policy to provide 
a medical certificate  from the Medical Practitioner  of the person whose condition  has led to 
the cancellation stating this was necessary and unavoidable hasnt been complied with. 
Whilst I have sympathy with Mr Gs position, and acknowledge that this would have been a 
difficult decision for him, I dont think that Mapfre has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
rejecting the claim  in these circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs claim and I dont  require Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to do anything.   
Ref: DRN56408453Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2019
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5640845