K822xcomplaint
Mr P and Miss D complain about  errors  and delays when  they applied  to Virgin Money  plc for 
a new mortgage  product.
background 
Mr P and Miss D took out a mortgage  with Virgin Money in 2016. Their mortgage product  
was due to end on 1 September 2018. They applied for a new product at the end of July 
2018. Mr P and Miss D also asked  for their property to be revalued.  They  say similar  houses  
are now selling for more  than theyd paid for their house. They  say the valuer made errors 
and undervalued the property. They want Virgin Money to explain why the purchase  price 
recorded with the Land Registry is less than they paid. And Mr P and Miss D are unhappy 
about the time taken by Virgin Money  to issue the product  offer and put the new product in 
place. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Virgin 
Money was entitled  to rely on the valuers report.  Virgin Money wasnt  responsible for the 
purchase price recorded with the Land Registry by Mr P and Miss Ds solicitor.  The 
adjudicator said the product transfer  completed in late September 2018  and Virgin Money 
adjusted Mr P and Miss Ds account to reflect the new interest rate. Virgin  Money offered 
£100 compensation for any confusion it caused  about the payment due in September  and 
the adjudicator  said this was reasonable.
Mr P and Miss D didnt agree. Miss D said Virgin Money has a new build department and 
ought to ask its legal team to look into whats happened and confirm what purchase  price 
should be recorded at the Land Registry. She said its a breach of regulations  for the price  at 
the Land Registry  to be different from the price in the mortgage  offer.  She said Virgin Money 
ought to question discrepancies with the property  price and the valuations  which has 
affected them financially. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Virgin Money wrote to Mr P and Miss D in May 2018  saying their product  would  end in 
September 2018. Mr P and Miss D applied for a new mortgage product on 30 July 2018.  
They also asked for their property to be revalued.  Virgin instructed a valuer on 2 August and 
the valuation was carried out on 9 August 2018. The valuers  report  was received by Virgin  
Money on 10 August  2018. Mr P and Miss Ds house was valued at £235,000  about  
£30,000 less than theyd expected. 
Virgin Money contacted  Mr P and Miss Ds mortgage broker on 15 August as, due to the 
lower valuation, they needed  to select a different product. Mr P and Miss D didnt agree with 
the valuation.  Their appeal was received and forwarded to the valuer  on 21 August 2018.
Ref: DRN55006812On 22 August 2018 Mr P and Miss D applied for a different product. Virgin  Money issued a 
product offer on 28 August  2018 which Mr P and Miss D returned the next day. There  wasnt  
time for the product to be in place by 1 September 2018. So Mr P and Miss Ds mortgage 
went onto the standard  variable rate. 
Virgin Money says it couldnt complete the product  transfer  until it received the contractual  
monthly payment  for September. It received part on 17 September  and the remainder on 25 
September. The product transfer completed on 27 September 2018.   
did Virgin Money make an error?
the valuation:  Virgin Money appointed a suitably qualified person  a member of the Royal 
Institution of Chartered Surveyors   to value  Mr P and Miss Ds property. Virgin  Money 
raised Mr P and Miss Ds concerns about  the valuation with the valuer. It explained  to Mr P 
and Miss D why the valuer was unable to adjust the value. I appreciate that Mr P and Miss D 
think their property is worth more. But I think Virgin Money acted reasonably  when 
appointing a valuer and asking it to respond  to Mr P and Miss Ds concerns.  I think  its 
entitled to rely on the valuation.
the time taken to complete  the product transfer: I dont think  Virgin Money  caused  delays to 
the product transfer. It generally responded  promptly  and within its own timescales. While 
Virgin Money says it took four working  days to issue the product offer (instead of the 2-3 
working days it aims for) this didnt  make a material difference.  Virgin Money says it needed 
to receive the signed acceptance form by 18 August  for the product to be in place by 1 
September: the broker didnt apply for the new product until 22 August. Virgin Money  
completed the product transfer reasonably promptly after Mr P and Miss D made the 
contractual monthly payment  due in September 2018. It adjusted  their account for the lower 
interest rate that applied once the product was in place.
the purchase price  recorded at the Land Registry: The Land Registry has criteria about how 
the purchase price  of new build properties  is recorded. It confirmed  that the purchase price  
of Mr P and Miss Ds property  has been  recorded correctly. While Mr P and Miss D arent 
happy about the price thats  been  recorded, I dont  think Virgin Money  is responsible for this. 
shortfall in the contractual monthly payment due in September 2018: Virgin Money  accepts it 
gave the wrong  shortfall figure  to Mr P and Miss Ds broker in mid September 2018 and this 
caused confusion. But Virgin Money  had written to Mr P and Miss D setting out the amount 
due in September 2018. And it gave Miss D the correct amount  when  she called to make  the 
payment. 
Virgin Money offered  £100 compensation for the upset caused  to Mr P and Miss D. I think, in 
the circumstances, this is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN55006813my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  the compensation offered by 
Virgin Money plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 August  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5500681