K822xcomplaint
Ms A complains  that Santander  UK Plc took too long dealing  with her application to transfer 
her joint mortgage into her sole name.
background
Ms A has a mortgage  with Santander.  On 20 March 2019 she asked about transferring  the 
mortgage into her sole name  as shed separated from her partner  (who  Ill call Mr A) in 2015 
and had a court order setting out the terms upon which  she should buy him out of the 
property. The order said Ms A should  pay Mr A £10,000 by 1 June  2019,  and upon receipt 
he should immediately  transfer all his legal estate  and beneficial interest in the family home 
to Ms A. It also said Ms A should use her best endeavours to remove Mr A from the 
mortgage.
Ms A applied to Santander to transfer  the mortgage  into her sole name, and it was noted she 
had the £10,000 to pay to Mr A in savings  so she didnt need  to increase the mortgage.
Unfortunately, there were problems with the proof  Santander needed of Ms As income 
which meant matters took longer than normal to get to offer stage.
Our investigator said it was down  to Santander  to decide what  information  it needed, but he 
could see there were some customer service  failings.  He felt Santanders original offer of 
£50 compensation  should  be increased to £150.  Santander agreed  to that, but Ms A didnt 
and so the matters  been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Ms A wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.
I can see from her submissions the determination  with which Ms A has brought  her 
complaint. She sees error or wrong-doing in almost  everything Santander has done (or not 
done). Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. Be that as it may, I 
have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things objectively,  
sometimes taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture.  Thats what Ive done. 
Much of what Ms A is unhappy about is that she disagrees with how Santander  chooses  to 
do business. Its up to Santander what information it needs when deciding  whether to lend 
money. Having looked  at everything,  and kept in mind the regulatory requirements and 
normal industry practice, Im not persuaded (as I must be if Im to uphold  this complaint) that 
this application  was unreasonably  delayed due unfair requests by Santander.
I wont detail all the issues that came up with Ms As proof  of income, but Im satisfied 
Santander wasnt asking  for information  it didnt need or for incorrect information. In fact 
Ref: DRN59151942Santander asked  for as much as it did  and accepted things it normally wouldnt  to try to 
help Ms A. Instead  it could simply have declined her application  on the grounds she didnt 
meet its lending criteria.  The requests for different forms of information were to try to assist 
Ms A in getting the mortgage shed applied for, rather  than a barrier as Ms A seems to 
believe.
Borrowing money isnt a right, and Santander  is entitled to ensure any application made  fits 
its lending criteria and is affordable. Unfortunately sometimes this takes  longer than other 
times, but that doesnt mean Santander  unreasonably delayed matters. That said,  I agree 
with our investigator that there were  some customer service failings and for that I also agree 
that £150 compensation is reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  but only insofar as I consider  Santander UK Plc should  pay £150 
compensation to Ms A. I make no other  order or award. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration  of the complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5915194