K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about how XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) dealt with his 
travel insurance claim. My references to Catlin include  its agents.
background
Mr K is unhappy with how Catlin handled his travel insurance claim for stolen items. Catlin  
paid for some but not all of the claim.  In summary Mr K complains that:
Catlin declined part of the claim as some items were not listed on the police report. 
Hed emailed Catlin to explain  why this was so from the outset
Hed asked Catlin to provide a full definition on 'reporting' a theft and where  in the
policy wording it says the report cant be verbal
Catlin hadnt explained how he could speak with the police  again  and the structure in 
which it need that reported
Catlin handled the claim poorly  and he had to repeat  himself  causing further stress 
and inconvenience
An incorrect date of birth and date of incident was recorded  for his claim
Catlin sent its final response after the due date which he finds  unacceptable.
Mr K says he took three  unpaid days off work to deal with the matter. He wants  Catlin to 
answer his queries, pay for all the items  listed on his claim form, give an apology  and pay 
him compensation. 
Our investigator thought Catlin had handled Mr Ks claim fairly and didnt need to do 
anything.
Mr K doesnt  agree  and wants an ombudsmans decision. In response to the investigators  
view his main  points  are: it couldnt  be assumed he would  know  the police report had to be in 
writing; he had to resend  Catlin  information hed already provided which caused him 
additional stress; him corresponding with Catlin by email had no bearing on his time taken or 
inconvenience as he still took time off work to deal with the matter; we hadnt dealt with 
Catlins late final response letter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  
The police report that Mr K sent Catlin  to support his claim says he had a plastic  bag 
containing a toothbrush, tooth brush charger, receipts and a wallet with money stolen. On 
the claim form Mr K has claimed  for numerous other  items. 
The policy says You must  report loss, theft or damage of personal possessions to the police 
or carrier  as appropriate as soon as practicably possible.
Mr K says that as he told the police about the other items having been stolen hes met the 
terms of the policy. But I think  Catlin has acted fairly  and reasonably  in only paying for those  
items listed in the police report. Mr K needs  to evidence the loss he incurred as a result of 
Ref: DRN53869182the theft. The only items hes provided  sufficient evidence for are the items listed  in the 
police report. He hasnt got any supporting  evidence  the other items were stolen.
Mr K told Catlin some  items werent listed on the police report as the police said they 
couldnt list those  items  without an affidavit, which wasnt possible on the day he reported 
the theft. However, the police report doesnt  say that and without  confirmation  from the 
police Catlin can just pay for the items  on the police report, to the policy  limit.
Catlin told Mr K it would review the claim if it got confirmation from the police  station he 
attended that the police advised him they couldnt  list all items on the police report due to the 
need for an affidavit.  Catlin has sufficiently explained to Mr K what  he needs to do. Its been 
clear it needs written confirmation from the police station that supports  what  Mr K says.
Catlin's settlement  of the claim on the evidence it has is fair and reasonable.
I dont think Catlin handled  the claim poorly. The information it requested from Mr K and the 
clarification of that information it requested  was reasonable. Catlin didnt ask for detailed  
information that Mr K had already sufficiently  provided.
Mr K told Catlin that his date of birth and the date of incident were recorded incorrectly on 
the claim form it sent and hed amended  these.  Catlin told Mr K why that happened. There  
was no impact on his claim.
We can look at an insurers complaint handling  where its ancillary to a regulated activity, as 
in this case. Catlins final response letter was one day outside the eight week deadline. 
Catlins already  apologised to Mr K for the days delay. There was no impact  on him being  
able to complain  to us.
Whether or not Mr K's communication with Catlin was by email it still took him time to make 
his complaint to it and us. However, I dont  generally make a compensation award  on the 
basis of time a consumer  spends on a complaint, and theres no reason to do so in this case.
Catlin dealt with Mr Ks claim and complaint in a fair and reasonable way. There's  no basis 
for me to make any compensation award  or ask it to apologise.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5386918