K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
background 
A used  car was supplied to Mr D under a hire purchase agreement with Close  Brothers that 
he electronically signed in March 2016. The car was about two years old and had been  
driven for 16,814 miles. Mr D complained to Close Brothers in August 2018 that the car had 
been mis-sold to him because it was imported  and had been  involved in accidents before it 
was imported. And he took the car to a garage in November 2018  which  said that the car 
wasnt roadworthy, it had been involved in multiple accidents before it was supplied to Mr D 
and that he couldve  been misled about the car. The cars mileage at that time was 37,085 
miles. Mr D wasnt  satisfied with Close Brothers response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He believed that the car 
wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale.  So he recommended  that Close Brothers  should:  
reduce all the monthly payments that Mr D had made by 45%; refund the advanced  cash  
payment; allow  him to reject the car; reimburse him for all of the parts,  repair and labour 
costs hed paid and pay him £400 for the trouble and upset that hed experienced.
Close Brothers has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
provided a copy of the HPI check that was made by the dealer before the car was supplied  
to Mr D and it says,  in summary, that:
the invoice  from the garage in November 2018 is dated 2 weeks after the car passed 
an MOT test at the same garage;
the component  failures noted  on the invoice are items that suffer  from normal 
unavoidable deterioration and would be checked  as part of an MOT test;
the car was involved in accidents before it was imported to the UK but it was then 
fully repaired to a satisfactory standard and sold in the UK and these components  
have failed since;
it has evidence from Mr Ds social media pages of him mis-using the car and doing 
burn-outs in it; 
those pages  also show that hes stripped the car completely  underneath, modifying it 
heavily, and by taking it to pieces he may have detrimentally impacted the cars 
condition; and
it has evidence of repair costs  totalling  £500  which doesnt  justify  the redress 
recommended by the adjudicator.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to Close Brothers on 12 December 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring  that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  the car was of satisfactory quality will depend on a 
number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price that was 
paid for it. The car that was supplied to Mr D was about two years  old, had been 
driven for 16,814 miles and had a price of £23,000. Satisfactory quality also covers  
durability which means  that the components within the car must be durable  and last a 
Ref: DRN55684612reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a 
number of factors. 
The car that was supplied  to Mr D had been  imported into the UK. The dealer has 
provided a copy of the HPI check that it made  on the car in March  2016 and which  
was clear of any issues. Ive seen the advert  for the car and the description of it  but 
Ive seen no evidence  to show that Mr D was told that the car hadnt been in an 
accident. Its clear that the car had been  in an accident before it was imported into 
the UK  but it was repaired and I consider that the evidence shows that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D. Theres no requirement  for a dealer 
to provide information about a cars accident history  (unless its asked about it) and a 
car thats  been  in an accident  can legally be sold. Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that the car was misrepresented  to Mr D. 
The car had passed an MOT test in December 2015 when its mileage was 16,417  
about three months before  it was supplied to Mr D  so it had a valid MOT certificate  
at that time. The car also passed MOT tests in November 2016, December 2017 and 
November 2018  when its mileage was respectively 22,272, 30,505 and 37,085.  
The November 2018 MOT  test was performed by the same  garage that inspected the 
car and said that it wasnt of a roadworthy condition  and the cars mileage at both 
times was recorded as 37,085 miles. Im not persuaded that a car that passed an 
MOT would then become un-roadworthy two weeks later when its mileage had 
stayed the same. 
Close Brothers has provided evidence from Mr Ds social media  pages  to show that 
he completely stripped  the underneath of the car in August  2016,  he completely 
repainted it in February 2017 and hes been  mis-using the car as theres a photo of 
him doing a burn-out in it in December 2016.  Under the terms of the agreement  the 
car remains the property  of Close Brothers and Ive seen no evidence to show  that it 
agreed to the car being stripped or repainted. And when the underneath of the car 
was stripped completely and the car was repainted,  I consider that it would be 
reasonable to expect  that any issues with the car that were present at that time 
wouldve been identified.  
I consider that the issues that were  identified by the garage in November 2018 may 
have been caused by the work that Mr D has done on the car and the way that hes 
used it. Mr D has been able to use the car from March 2016  to November 2018  a 
period of two years  and eight months   and hes driven more than 20,000 miles in it. 
I dont consider that hed have able to do that if the car hadnt been of satisfactory  
quality when it was supplied to him.
Im not persuaded that the car was misrepresented to Mr D or that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. So I dont consider that Close 
Brothers has acted incorrectly in its response to his complaint. And I dont consider 
that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Close Brothers  to pay for any 
repairs to the car or to reimburse Mr D for any repairs that hed had done  on the car. 
Nor do I consider  that theres any basis on which it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require Close Brothers  to allow Mr D to reject the car. And Im not persuaded 
that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Close Brothers  to pay any 
compensation to Mr D or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
Ref: DRN55684613So subject to any further representations by Mr D or Close Brothers, my provisional  decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint.
Mr D says that hes not very happy  with the outcome and he doesnt see what going  through  
his social  media has to do with anything about the car. But he says that hell just pay the 
outstanding finance on the car to keep it or hand  it back as his finance agreement ends in 
one month  so its just easier for him to do that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5568461