K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Metro Bank PLC wrongly credited a cheque, meant for him, into a fraudsters 
account.  He would like his money returned.
background
In February 2018,  Mr P sold some shares  through company I.  He  asked  that he be sent a 
cheque for the value  of the sale which amounted to £10,000.  But when this cheque didnt 
arrive, Mr P queried this and discovered that the cheque had been paid into, and credited,  
an account with Metro Bank.
When Mr P complained and advised Metro that he did not hold an account  with it, Metro 
rejected his complaint.  It said that the cheque had been paid into an account bearing Mr Ps 
name and therefore,  he would  not be reimbursed.  
Mr P then brought  his complaint to this service.
Metro told this service that the cheque had been  paid into a Young  Savers Account which 
had been opened in branch on the very same  day.  The  adult  who claimed to be the 
mother of Master P  had herself opened an online account the day before.  As 
identification, she had used a provisional  driving  licence.  When  she came  into branch, she 
produced, what we now know to be, a forged birth certificate.
Metro said it had carried out correct checks when opening these  accounts.   It suggested  the 
birth certificate was a sophisticated forgery  and its customer service representative was 
not to have known this at the time.  
It further said it did not consider it had acted negligently under the Cheques Act 1957 and 
therefore, its obligations fulfilled, it did not agree  it should be held liable for Mr Ps losses.
Our adjudicator did not agree. He told Metro he was going to uphold Mr Ps claim.  So, Metro 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will be 
asking Metro to reimburse Mr Ps money.
The basis  of my decision is different to the reasons provided by the adjudicator   so I have 
already explained this to Metro and have given  it an opportunity to respond.  It has done so, 
and I have taken  those comments on board when making this final decision.
I think its accepted  here that Mr P was the true owner of the cheque.   He argues that in 
accepting the cheque on behalf  of a fraudster, Metro interfered  with his property  more 
commonly referred to as cheque conversion.   In law, conversion  is a tort of strict liability; that 
is to say, anyone  who performs an act inconsistent with the rights  of the owner, however  
innocent he may be, is liable  for the loss caused.
But the law also offers a potential  defence to banks  and building societies against  actions in 
cheque conversion,  by means  of Section 4 of the Cheques Act 1957. That says that, where 
a bank or building society  collects a cheque  for a customer who isnt the true owner (as 
Ref: DRN55863882here), its not liable provided it has acted in good  faith and without negligence. In relying on 
such a defence, its for Metro to demonstrate that it has met these requirements.  Its not for 
Mr P to demonstrate Metro didnt do so.
So, where, as in this case, a cheque has been  paid into a recently opened account, we will 
look at the account opening arrangements  in the course of considering whether Metro  has 
acted in good faith and without negligence.
Im prepared to accept Metro acted  in good  faith.  There  is nothing I have seen which  makes  
me think otherwise.   But did it act without negligence?  In  the circumstances of this case, I 
dont think it did  and I say that for the following reasons:
-the cheque  which was deposited into the young  savers account may have been 
made out to the person named on the account   but the Metro cashier did not query 
why a cheque  had been issued from I to a 20 month old child. This unusual  set of 
circumstances alone should have been  enough  to raise  Metros suspicions  and 
enough to say that more questions should  have  been asked.  And by that, I dont 
mean it was necessary for Metro  to speak to I about individual  clients   but to simply 
raise the query as to whether it would be common practice for it to issue cheques  in 
the name of a minor.  It does not appear  that this was done.
Metro says this conversation may well have taken place, but I remind  myself that it is 
for Metro to prove that it has not acted negligently  here  and so in the absence of 
any evidence to the contrary, I assume  for the purposes of this complaint that it was 
unlikely this conversation or challenge took place.
-the driving licence  provided as identification for the adult was issued in January 2016  
and recorded  her address as X.  The birth certificated produced later that day, and 
which was issued  in April 2016,  gave an address for mum as being Y.  The account 
was subsequently opened at the former address.  It doesnt  seem that anyone 
queried why the address recorded  on the birth certificate (which was the most  recent  
document) was different to what was being provided for account opening purposes.  
-Having looked  at a photocopy  of the two identification documents, I cant  say for sure 
whether someone  would be able to identify them as genuine.  But  what  we do know 
is that the birth certificate was a forgery   and Metro  has failed to mention what  
procedures it has in place in order to check the authenticity of documents.   
-the transactions, following  the paying in of the cheque to the young savers  account, 
were unusual   and these dont seem  to have alerted  Metro  that all was not quite as 
it should be.  As soon as the funds had cleared, the money  was transferred back to 
the adult account and then subsequently withdrawn.
So, for these reasons,  I think Metro has failed to show that it acted  without negligence and 
therefore, I intend to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must:
-reimburse Mr P the value of the cheque which amounted to £10,000
-pay 8% simple interest from the date of the loss until the date of settlement
-pay Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused here.
Ref: DRN55863883Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5586388