K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained  because  Kensington Mortgage Company Limited sent them  an 
incorrect letter at the end of their mortgage. The letter said the mortgage  end date was 2033 
instead of 2018. It also said there was an unpaid balance of £190.93,  and said it would take 
action if they didnt pay within 7 days  but there wasnt anything owing.
Mr and Mrs R have health problems,  and Mr R collapsed when he received the letter.
background
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage was due to end at the end of June 2018. Mr R spoke to 
Kensington on 22 June, and it was agreed  theyd  pay the normal  monthly payment of 
£238.41 on 28 June.  Kensington  said that if there was any outstanding  balance after that, it 
would write  to them. Mr R said that if there was anything outstanding, theyd pay it the 
following month, on 28 July.
Mr and Mrs R paid £238.41 on 28 June.  On 5 July, Kensington sent them  a letter. This said
 We wish to inform you that the term of your mortgage came to an end on 29 June 2033 
and you have an unpaid  balance of £190.93. Please contact us on the number above within 
7 days to repay the full amount. If we do not hear from you, as a last resort  we may:
-instruct a field agent to visit you at the property, and/or
-instruct solicitors to start legal action,  which could  result in your property being 
repossessed.
Both Mr and Mrs R have  health problems. Mr R was very distressed when he got the letter, 
and collapsed on the floor.
On 9 July Mr R felt a bit better and rang Kensington. He said the lender had made  a mistake 
and the end date should have been 2018, not 2033. Mr R said that at first Kensingtons 
adviser said there hadnt been an error and the redemption date was indeed  2033. 
Kensingtons adviser checked with another person and then confirmed that Mr R was right, 
and the letter had been sent by mistake. Kensington also said that there  wasnt  any 
outstanding balance  and in fact there  was a refund. Mr R explained  his medical problems  
and the effect  the letter  had had.
The next day, Kensington rang Mr R back. It apologised for the letter,  which it said had been  
computer generated  and didnt reflect the account. It offered Mr and Mrs R £50. Mr R 
refused, saying it wasnt enough  because  of the stress it had caused him. He complained.
The next day, Kensington sent Mr and Mrs R a letter  which  confirmed that it had told the 
Land Registry to discharge the mortgage from Mr and Mrs Rs property. A refund for the 
balance due to Mr and Mrs R, £47.45, had been  sent on 6 July. 
On 22 August, Kensington replied to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. It said that the date of 2033 
was incorrect and the mortgage had been paid off on 28 June 2018. It apologised for the 
error and offered £50 compensation. Mr R said that he didnt think  this took into account  the 
effect the letter had had on his health. But Kensington said it had taken Mr and Mrs Rs 
health into consideration, and it didnt change its decision.
Ref: DRN52081542Mr and Mrs R werent  satisfied and complained to this service. They sent medical  evidence  
for both of them. They said that theyd  gone through a great  shock  and stress when they had 
the letter. They said you cant  put a price on health  and feelings.
The investigator upheld  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. He said that the worry which  Mr and Mrs 
R had when they received the letter was understandable, and pointed out that there was a 
large difference between the date on the letter, and Mr and Mrs Rs actual mortgage end 
date. He said that once Kensington was made  aware of the mistake,  it had acted 
reasonably. It had contacted Mr and Mrs R promptly  and apologised. The investigator  said 
that without Mr Rs medical condition, the impact of the letter  would have been less. But 
Mr R had told both Kensington and this service that hed collapsed  as a result. So the 
investigator considered  that the compensation Kensington  should  pay Mr and Mrs R should 
be £150.
Kensington didnt  reply  to the investigators  view. Mr and Mrs R didnt think  that £150 was 
enough. He said he could have ended up in hospital, though  in fact hed soon recovered 
from his collapse.  He said you cant put a price on health. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the letter which Kensington wrongly sent to Mr and Mrs R. I find that it 
would have been a shock to get a letter like this. The date which  was set out  in bold in the 
heading, as well as in the text  was many  years ahead. 
But in fact I consider  that this wasnt the worst  part of the letter.  I say that because  the first 
sentence does say your mortgage came to an end so it was clear  that the mortgage had 
already ended, despite the future  date. But the largest paragraph focuses on an urgent need 
to repay  money  owing,  with threats  of a field agents visit and possible legal action and 
possession. I also note that Kensingtons notes show that Mr R had spoken to Kensington 
on 22 June, when hed said that if there was any money owing, hed pay it on 28 July. But in 
fact Mr and Mrs R didnt owe anything and Kensington owed them £47.45.  I consider that the 
threats of action, when  Mr and Mrs R didnt in fact owe Kensington anything, were worse 
than saying the mortgage had already  ended  in 2033. Thats  because  Mr and Mrs R couldnt 
know whether or not there was a balance outstanding, but they would have known that 2033  
wasnt a date which had already passed.
So I find that its fair and reasonable for Kensington to pay Mr and Mrs R some 
compensation for the distress  this letter caused.
When we assess compensation, we look at the impact on individuals,  depending on the 
circumstances and what actually happened   not what might have happened.  This varies 
according to the individuals circumstances.  Our role is not to fine or punish businesses,  
which is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
In Mr and Mrs Rs case, the impact was made  worse  by their health  conditions. Mr R 
suffered a collapse,  from which  he fortunately recovered relatively soon. So I cant  take into 
account his argument that he might have had to go to hospital,  or there might have been 
worse medical consequences. On the other  hand,  if it hadnt been for Mr and Mrs Rs health  
conditions, I consider the impact of Kensingtons mistake would have been significantly less.
Ref: DRN52081543I also find that Kensington acted promptly to put things right, after Mr Rs initial  phone  call. It 
rang the next day to apologise and offer £50 compensation. And the day after that it issued a 
letter confirming it had written to the Land Registry about removing Kensingtons legal 
charge from Mr and Mrs Rs property  in other words, this showed  evidence of the formal 
legal end to the mortgage. According  to the accounts, it had already refunded  Mr and Mrs R 
the £47.45 overpayment on 6 July.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that £150 would be a fair and reasonable 
figure for the compensation for Kensington  to pay Mr and Mrs R.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I order Kensington Mortgage  Company  Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs R £150 compensation for 
the distress caused  by its incorrect letter  of 5 July. 
Its not clear to me whether or not Kensington has or hasnt already paid Mr and Mrs R the 
£50 compensation  it offered. If it has, that leaves  £100  still to pay. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5208154