K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold in October 2001 
alongside a hire purchase agreement.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So, to keep things simple, in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller.  
Mr T says FICL mis-sold  him the PPI. 
background
Mr T took out a PPI policy  alongside his hire purchase agreement in store  in 2001. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ts complaint and didnt think  it should  be upheld.  As 
Mr T disagreed with our adjudicator, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding Mr Ts case. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  Mr Ts complaint. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ts signed credit agreement. This set out the PPI policy  separately 
from the rest of the finance  and required Mr T to sign separately for the cover but says to do 
so only if you want the cover. If the PPI policy had been a condition of the finance  or 
compulsory as Mr T suggests, I wouldnt expect to see the credit  agreement presenting the 
policy as an optional product. So taking everything  into account, I think  FICL made it clear 
that the PPI was optional, and that Mr T chose to take it out  knowing he didnt have to. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr T got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But the agreement he signed  included the cost of the policy, so I think  he wouldve 
understood how much he would be paying for it. And he chose to take out the policy   so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover, despite  what hes told us about his other means. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  it doesnt  look like he was affected  
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it couldve been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ts comments about his wider circumstances at the time but these 
dont lead me to change  my decision. Overall,  I dont find that this policy  was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Ref: DRN54828542Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5482854