K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave him 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay. The complaint  has been  brought  to this service on 
Mr Ds behalf by a firm of solicitors. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken 
by Mr D.
background
I attach my second provisional decision dated  19 February 2020 which  forms part of this final 
decision and should be read in conjunction  with it. In my second provisional  decision I 
explained why I intended to uphold  Mr Ds complaint.  I invited both parties to provide any 
further comments they may have had by 4 March 2020 before I reached  a final decision.
Neither Mr D nor UBF has provided  any comments in response to my second provisional  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As neither party has asked me to consider further  information or arguments, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions set out in my second provisional decision.  It follows that I 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle Buck, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr D paid on Loans 1 and 2 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
2.With regard to Loan 3, refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr D has paid on 
Loan 3, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 3;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  3 and 
pay any balance to Mr D; and
5.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loans  1 to 3 from Mr Ds credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give
 Mr D a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If UBF intends to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after deducting  
the tax.
Ref: DRN55667882Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55667883COPY OF SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr D complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP, trading as Uncle Buck, (UBF), gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford  to repay. The complaint has been brought to this service on Mr Ds behalf  by a firm of 
solicitors. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr D.
background
Mr D took out three  loans  with UBF and details of these are shown  below. Loans 1 and 3 were  
repayable by six monthly repayments and Loan 2 was repayable by four monthly repayments.  
Loans 1 and 2 were  repaid by the due date.  Its not clear  from the information Ive seen whether  Loan 
3 has now been repaid.
Loan number
Date Loan amount Highest monthly 
repayment amountRepayment date
1. 14/5/2018 £400 £119.23 19/10/2018
2. 31/10/2018 £300 £111.69 16/1/19
3. 16/1/19 £425 £131.14 Outstanding?
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator concluded  that Loans 1 to 3 shouldnt  have been  lent. She said that the information 
UBF gathered showed Mr D was having  problems  managing his money. She noted that the 
information shown in UBFs credit check before Loan 1 showed that Mr D had at least three 
outstanding short term loans and that UBF should have realised that it would  be unlikely that Mr D 
would able to sustainably repay Loan 1 and any subsequent loans.
UBF disagreed.  It had reviewed Mr Ds credit check before Loan 1. It noted that there were no 
judgments or insolvencies. There  were  also no delinquent  accounts in the previous twelve months 
and no defaulted accounts in the previous 36 months. UBF said it was clear from the summary 
variables that there  were no short term loans  outstanding with no balance outstanding. The credit 
report detail provided evidence that Mr D had one other outstanding  borrowing over a six month 
period with monthly repayments. But this was shown  as an unsecured loan rather  than a short term 
loan and there was no evidence that there were  any payments overdue.  So it couldnt agree that Mr D 
was having problems managing his money. Given the level of the loan repayments, it considered  it 
would be unlikely that Mr D needed to borrow  in order  to fund them. So UBF was unable  to conclude 
that Mr D shouldnt have been lent any of his loans.
Initial provisional conclusions
After considering all the evidence, I issued  a first provisional decision  on this complaint to Mr D and to 
UBF on 16 January  2020. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when UBF lent to Mr D the regulator was the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  and 
relevant regulations and guidance included  its Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that UBF needed to take reasonable  steps to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this meant that it should  have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought  less thorough  
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN55667884But certain factors might  point to the fact that UBF should fairly and reasonably have  done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer had been  given loans (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There might  even come  a point where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending  was unsustainable.
I thought it was important to say that UBF was required to establish  whether Mr D could sustainably 
repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence 
calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this was the case. This was 
because the CONC defined sustainable as being  without  undue difficulties and in particular the 
consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting  other reasonable commitments,  as well 
as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it followed  that a lender should  realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a borrower  wouldnt be able to make their repayments  
sustainably if they were  unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all meant for Mr Ds complaint.
Id noted that UBF had carried out a credit check before each loan was granted. UBF had provided  us 
with copies  of its credit  checks.
I couldnt see that wed received a credit  report from Mr D so I couldnt say there were  entries  on his 
file that shouldve  concerned  UBF.
Mr Ds first loan with UBF was for £400 with six monthly repayments with a highest repayment amount 
of £119.23. Mr D had declared an income  of £2,750. Id not seen  any information about Mr Ds 
expenditure. Before Loan 1, UBFs credit check showed that Mr D had 18 active credit  accounts with 
nine accounts opened  in the previous six months. Id also seen  around five outstanding  loans  on 
UBFs credit check which  were all taken out within the previous two months.  Although not described  
as such,  they all appeared  to be short term loans  with up to six monthly  repayments.  Whilst  there 
were no defaults or delinquent accounts on the credit check, I thought  the number of recent short term 
accounts might have  caused  UBF some concerns  and should have been sufficient  to suggest  that 
Mr D was having problems managing his money. So, I thought it might have been proportionate at 
this time for UBF to have  gathered some further information from Mr D about his regular expenditure  
and other  short term loans. 
Id said that Id normally  look at the borrowers bank statements and credit report  to see what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown.  Unfortunately  Id not seen  Mr Ds credit report or his 
bank statements for the month  before  Loan 1. Id noted that the adjudicator had asked Mr D for his 
bank statements and credit  report in April 2019 so hed had ample  time to provide these. So I couldnt  
say that if UBF had completed sufficient checks, it would have found  that Mr D couldnt  afford to repay 
Loan 1 sustainably. So I couldnt say that UBF was wrong to give Loan  1 to Mr D.
Mr D had repaid  Loan 1 on the due date but he then took out Loan 2 around 15 days  later.  I didnt 
think that it would have been reasonable for UBF to have seen this gap in lending  as an indication 
that Mr Ds finances had moved  on from whatever  situation had required his previous loan. The loan 
Ref: DRN55667885amount had decreased  to £300. It was repayable by four monthly repayments and the highest 
repayment was £111.69. Mr D had declared  his disposable income as £975. 
Before Loan 2, UBFs credit check showed that Mr D now had 20 active credit  accounts. I could see 
that 18 accounts  had been opened in the previous  six months. I could also see that there appeared  to 
be around 14 outstanding loans  which needed to be repaid over periods of up to seven months. Nine 
of these accounts  had been taken  out in the previous two months.  I thought  these appeared to be 
short term loans and should have suggested  to UBF that Mr D was having  problems  managing his 
money. 
I appreciated that UBF had asked Mr D for his income and expenditure. But I thought the apparent 
number of short term loans  in UBFs credit check might have suggested that it wasnt reasonable  for 
UBF to rely on the information  provided  by Mr D. Again I thought  it might have been proportionate at 
this time for UBF to have  made some more  checks such as asking Mr D for more information  about  
his other short term loans.
Again I would  have normally looked at a borrowers bank statements and credit report  to see what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown.  Unfortunately  Id not seen  Mr Ds credit report or his 
bank statements for the month  before  Loan 2. So I couldnt  say that if UBF had completed sufficient 
checks, it would have found that Mr D couldnt afford to repay Loan 2 sustainably.  So I couldnt say 
that UBF was wrong  to give Loan 2 to Mr D.
Mr D had repaid  Loan 2 early but he then took out Loan  3 on the same day hed repaid Loan 2. I 
thought this might have  suggested to UBF that repaying the loan had caused Mr D to need to borrow  
again which wasnt a sustainable situation. The loan amount had increased to £425 repayable  by six 
monthly repayments with a highest repayment of £131.14. 
Before Loan 3, UBFs credit check showed that Mr D now had 21 active credit  accounts. I could see 
that 18 accounts  had been opened in the previous  six months. I could also see that there were  around 
11 outstanding loans which needed to be repaid over periods of up to seven months. So I thought  that 
these appeared to be short  term loans and should have suggested to UBF that Mr D was still having 
problems managing  his money. Again I thought it might have been proportionate at this time for UBF 
to have done  some more checks such as gathering information from Mr D about  his other short  term 
loans. I couldnt see that it did this.
As stated above, I would  have normally looked at a borrowers bank statements  and credit report to 
see what proportionate checks would  likely have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen  Mr Ds credit 
report or his bank statements for the month before Loan 3. So I couldnt say that if UBF had 
completed sufficient checks, it would have found that Mr D couldnt afford to repay Loan 3 
sustainably. So I couldnt say that UBF was wrong  to give Loan 3 to Mr D.
Subject to any further representations by Mr D or UBF my first provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. But Id said that my proposed  decision might  change  if I 
received Mr Ds credit report  and bank statements for April 2018 to January 2019. Id also said that it 
would be helpful if UBF could provide more  information about  whether Loan 3 had been repaid  in its 
response to this decision.
Mr D responded  to my first provisional decision by saying  that hed sent this service  his bank 
statements in connection with other  complaints  with this service.
UBF responded to say that it had nothing to add.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Ref: DRN55667886As Id said above, I think it might have been proportionate for UBF to have gathered some further 
information from Mr D about his other short term loans before Loans 1 to 3. Ive now reviewed the 
bank statements weve received from Mr D to see what  UBF would  have seen if it had made 
proportionate checks before  Loans  1 to 3. Had it done so, its likely that UBF wouldve  learnt  that Mr D 
had at least six outstanding other short term loans with monthly repayments due at the same time as 
the repayments on Loans 1 to 3. I can see these on Mr Ds bank statements.  I think that the number 
and amount of Mr Ds outstanding short term loans show that UBFs loans  werent likely to be 
sustainable. So I think UBF ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr D wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay Loans 1 to 3. And it was wrong  for UBF to give Loans 1 to 3 to Mr D.
So, I intend to uphold this complaint and say that UBF should put things right as follows.
putting things  right  what UBF needs to do
1.Refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on Loans 1 and 2 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such  refunded interest and charges  from the date they were  paid to the 
date of settlement*;
2.With regard to Loan  3, refund all the interest and charges that Mr D has paid on 
       Loan 3, and pay 8% simple interest*  a year on the refunds from the date of payment to      
the date of settlement;
3.Write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan  3;
4.Apply the refunds  referred  to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3 and pay any 
balance to Mr D; and
5.Remove any adverse entries about Loans 1 to 3 from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give
 Mr D a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If UBF intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
my second  provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, but subject to any further information  or evidence I might receive from 
the parties, I intend to uphold  this complaint. I intend to order UBF to pay Mr D compensation as set 
out above.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5566788