K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Go Car Credit  Limited  (GCC) repossessed  their car due to 
arrears.
background
Mr and Mrs C were supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement with 
GCC.
In April 2019 GCC issued  a notice of termination.  Mr and Mrs C contacted  the business to 
complain and said they had tried to make a payment to the account  over the bank holiday 
weekend but had been unable to make it on time.
In response to the complaint GCC said it had no record of payments being attempted  over 
the bank holiday. It said there were arrears on the agreement and offered to refer Mr and 
Mrs C to the customer contact department to arrange a payment plan.
GCC subsequently obtained a return of goods  order and repossessed  the car.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  the complaint. He 
said the agreement  had been in arrears for a long time and that there  had been  a number of 
payments plans which had been  broken. He felt that GCC had offered adequate support to 
Mr and Mrs C and had given them the opportunity to pay the arrears  
Mrs and Mrs c didnt agree. They said theyd tried to make payment on many occasions but 
GCC wouldnt take payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the history  of the agreement and I can see that there have been arrears  for 
most of the time. The system notes provided  by GCC show  that GCC has been  in touch with 
Mr and Mrs C regularly and that several  payment plans have been  set up. These  payment 
plans havent  been kept to by Mr and Mrs C.
I can see that GCC issued a notice of default  in March 2017  because of the arrears on the 
account. Its clear from the contact  notes that Mr and Mrs C have had difficulties in making 
payments for a long time and have been  warned  previously of the risk that the car could be 
repossessed.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Cs specific complaint that they were  unable to make  payment 
over the bank holiday weekend. Theyve also said that there were other occasions when 
they tried to make payment but werent  able to do so. I can see that a payment was due on 
18 April 2019 which was a Thursday before a four day bank  holiday  weekend. Mrs C has 
said that she tried to make payment using the automated telephone system but wasnt able 
to. She says the system  wouldnt  accept her log in details.
GCC hasnt been  able to provide any information  about the automated telephone system. It 
has said that there is no record of payments using the web portal, which  is another  means  
Ref: DRN51833992by which  Mrs C could have tried to make payment. It has, however, confirmed that the last 
direct debit payment  attempted  was on 18 April 2019.
Because of the lack of information available I cant be certain of whether Mrs C tried to make  
payment on 18 April 2019. But even if she did try to make payment  using  the automated 
telephone system, I think she could  have tried other methods, such as calling GCC direct or 
using the web portal.
Ive thought about whether GCC has acted  fairly  in terminating the agreement. Overall, I 
think GCC has treated Mr and Mrs C sympathetically throughout the agreement  by setting 
up payment arrangements. I dont think GCC acted unfairly or unreasonably in terminating 
the account because the arrears had remained  unpaid for several months  and the payment 
plan had been broken.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5183399