K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that a caravan that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse Limited wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. Shes being helped  with her 
complaint by her husband.
background
A new caravan  was supplied to Mrs S under  a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse 
that she signed in May 2015.  She complained to Black Horse  in June 2018 about damp 
issues, some faults with the caravan  and the servicing requirements. The caravan was 
inspected by an independent expert in July 2018  and it was found that the roof strap was 
leaking and a repair was recommended. Black  Horse said that the repair would be covered 
under the caravans warranty and it offered to pay £100  to compensate  her for the distress 
and inconvenience  that shed been caused.  
The investigator believed  that the caravan  wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of sale 
as it wasnt durable and he endorsed Black Horses offer to repair  the fault. But he said that 
he couldnt recommend that any of the servicing fees are refunded and he said that the 
expert had said that the other  faults were all repaired  to a satisfactory standard  under the 
warranty.
Mrs S has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that Black Horse hasnt paid them the £100 compensation and the caravan is 
under warranty but she still has to pay for the services which wasnt  something that shed 
realised until the first service. She says that she should receive £100 compensation for 
having to take the caravan for repair and a further £500 for the distress and inconvenience  of 
having a damp caravan. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse,  as the supplier of the caravan,  was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age of the caravan and the price that was paid for it. The caravan that was supplied to Mrs S 
was a new caravan  and I consider that it was reasonable  for her to expect that it would be 
free from defects. Satisfactory quality  also covers durability which  means that the caravan 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
The caravan  was supplied to Mrs S under a hire purchase agreement that she signed  in May 
2015. The agreement  says:
You must have the goods serviced  in accordance  with the manufacturers  
recommendations and any applicable  warranty; 
and immediately above her signature  on the agreement it says:
Sign this agreement only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
Ref: DRN50098762By signing the agreement I consider that Mrs S had agreed  to arrange and pay for the 
caravan to be serviced each year. Mrs S says that she didnt know that the caravan  would 
have to be taken for a service  but that shes now found a way for it to be serviced  without 
being moved.  Im not persuaded that Black Horse has done  anything  wrong  in connection 
with the servicing requirements  for the caravan  so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to require  it to reimburse  Mrs S for any of the servicing costs that shes incurred.
The services  in July 2016 and June  2017 identified increasing damp  levels in the caravan. 
Mrs S complained to Black Horse in June  2018 and it arranged for the caravan to be 
inspected by an independent expert.  The expert  said that there had been issues  with the 
caravans fly screen, cooker and main  fuse switch box and that some taps and mirrors had 
corroded  but it said that those issues had all been  dealt with satisfactorily  under the 
caravans warranty. It said that the damp  levels had fallen  but it acknowledged  that the 
readings had been  taken  at the end of an extended period of dry weather. It said that the 
caravans roof strap should be repaired as a matter  of urgency  and should  be covered under 
the caravans  warranty.
The dealer  say that the faults with the caravan about  which  Mrs S has complained have 
been repaired under  the warranty.  Black Horse offered  to pay £100  to Mrs S to compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience that shed experienced  during the course of the 
complaint and that it had taken into account that shed had to return  the caravan to the 
dealer for a repair.  These  events have caused distress and inconvenience to Mrs S but I 
consider Black Horses  offer to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And Im not 
persuaded that a higher  award of compensation is justified.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I order Black Horse Limited  to pay £100  to Mrs S to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  that shes  been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5009876