K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about a key facts document produced by Strathearn  Insurance Services  
Limited (SISL) in relation to a property  deposit  bond.
In summary,  Mr L says that SISL  failed to disclose material information and provide 
appropriate risk warnings in the key facts document. He says that he decided to invest  in a 
property investment scheme  (Scheme  A) based  solely upon the key facts document. The 
scheme failed and Mr L lost his capital. He says that had the full facts and risk disclosures 
been made in the key facts document, he would  not have invested  in the scheme  and 
suffered a financial loss.
background
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019  upholding  the complaint. A copy  is attached  
and forms part of this decision.
Mr L accepted  my provisional  decision. SISL  did not accept the provisional decision. Its 
representative said, in summary:
On the matter of jurisdiction, SISL  recognises  that this has been  considered  by this 
service in the jurisdiction  decision  in a similar case. Notwithstanding  this, it does not 
accept that Mr L falls within the ordinary meaning of a client.  There  was no retainer of 
SISL by the consumer  and no remuneration was paid by the consumer to SISL.
The context of the investment needs to be taken into account. The members of the IPIN 
Global Prospects Network (IPIN) tend to be high net worth  / sophisticated  investors who 
are familiar with property  club type investments. SISL understood that the IPIN 
members had self-certified to IPIN that they were  aware of the risks of making 
investments of this nature and they invested via IPIN because  they sought  a high rate of 
return, something which is inevitably associated with increased  level of risk.
The investors typically received advice from other  parties including their lawyers, IPIN 
and potentially, independent financial advisers  and that is something  that needed to be 
taken into account. 
The provisional decision appears to regard the key facts  document as if it had either 
been a policy summary or key features  document as defined  the FCA Handbook. It is 
actually an initial disclosure document (IDD) and should  be treated as such. It is unfair 
to judge the IDD against  the standard of another type of document which it never  
purported to be.
It cannot be said that Mr L relied  on the key facts document as it appears  quite possible 
that if the same bond had been in place and he was told of the bond but the key facts 
document had not been present,  he would still have  gone ahead with the scheme.
Each investor was required to sign their acceptance of the surety  bond  and the 
providers name  and address were displayed on the document the investor  signed.
my findings
Ref: DRN52694822Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that the 
settlement set out in my provisional decision represents fair compensation.
It seems  to me that a lot of points raised  by SISL  were already considered  by me in the 
provisional decision. So I dont think there is much more to add to what I have already said.  
However, for completeness, I have gone  through again here what  in my view are the key 
points raised by SISLs representative in response to my provisional  decision.
can we consider  the complaint?
As I explained in my provisional decision,  SISL  had objected to this service  considering  this 
complaint, and a number  of others  similar  to it. It said Mr L wasnt  its customer, the deposit 
protection insurance wasnt a regulated product and that it did not carry out any regulated 
activity.
This was considered  at length by us in another similar case and SISL  recognises  that the 
jurisdiction issues that are relevant to this case have  been considered in the jurisdiction 
decision in that case. So I do not want to repeat those  findings  here.  I remain of the view that 
this complaint is within our jurisdiction  for the reasons I mentioned in my provisional 
decision. I will however  address  the point raised  by SISL following my provisional decision in 
this regard.
SISL says that Mr L does  not fall within the ordinary meaning of a client, there was no 
retainer of SISL by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by him to SISL.
Our powers  to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets  
Act 2000 (FSMA) and in rules, known as the Dispute Resolution Rules  (DISP) written  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) in accordance with the powers  it derives from FSMA. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook.
DISP2.7.1R states:
"A complaint may only be dealt with under  the Financial Ombudsman  Service if it is brought  
by or on behalf  of an eligible complainant."
An eligible  complainant is defined by DISP 2.7.3R as including a consumer, which means 
"any natural  person  acting for purposes outside his trade, business  or profession".
DISP 2.7.6R further states:
To be an eligible complainant a person must  also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1)the complainant  is (or was) a customer...  of the respondent
(2)the complainant  is (or was) a potential customer of the respondent 
(5)  the complainant  is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken out or 
was intended  to be taken out with or through the respondent
Ref: DRN52694823Mr L was a beneficiary under a contract of insurance. And for the reasons already explained, 
I am satisfied that the contract of insurance was taken through  SISL.  So I consider that Mr L 
is an eligible complainant under DISP  2.7.6(5)R.
It may be that no remuneration was paid directly  by Mr L but often insurance brokers are 
paid commission by the insurer and that is what had happened here. SISL was paid 
commission by the insurer, Northern & Western  Insurance Company (NWIC).  As stated in 
the key facts document the commission was about 11% of the premium, paid by the 
developer to NWIC. As I understand  it, the premium in turn was 2.25% of the deposit  paid by 
Mr L. Of this, 2% was retained  by NWIC and 0.25% was paid as commission to SISL.
In addition, I also consider  that Mr L is an eligible complainant under DISP  2.7.6(2)R. It may 
be that there was no retainer of SISL by Mr L but I am satisfied that he was a potential 
customer of SISL and therefore an eligible complainant under the DISP rules.
SISL in its capacity as a regulated insurance  intermediary offered its services  to potential  
customers. It said in the key facts document: Due to the regulated nature of the product 
offered any direct questions relating specifically to the bond  aspect of the SES [secure exit 
strategy] offering should be directed to Strathearn Insurance.
It also said: The FSA requires you to be provided with this information. Use this information 
to decide if our services  are right for you.
It also referred to our service  in the event  of any complaint. and to the FSCS in the event 
SISL could not meet  its obligations.  Thus  I am satisfied that SISL envisaged the recipients of 
the key facts document of the specific schemes as its potential customers. 
It may be that Mr L did not eventually approach SISL, but SISL made its services available to 
him in its capacity as the regulated firm. And as noted earlier,  SISL  was paid commission in 
relation to the deposits made, whether or not the respective investors contacted  it.
Taking all of this into account,  it is my view that Mr L was a potential customer  of SISL and 
therefore an eligible  complainant under DISP 2.7.6(2)R as well.
relevant considerations
I am required to determine this complaint  on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The FCA handbook  sets out the Principles which are a general statement of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients,  and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential  client (and so potential  customer). 
Ref: DRN52694824Mr L was a potential  customer, and his complaint is essentially about  what  SISL 
communicated (or failed  to communicate)  to him through the key facts document. So I 
consider that Principle  7 is relevant here.
I also consider that Principle 6 is relevant in this instance, which  says:  "A firm must  pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
IPIN provided Mr L with promotional literature about  the scheme. It was called the 
Investment Analysis Document (IAD).  The IAD stated that the bond would protect the full 
amount of the deposit in the event of a contractual default by the developer. Investors  were  
referred to a Key Facts document  produced by SISL, which was included  in the IAD.
The IAD said:
"The property deposit is provided by the developer in association with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  21)". 
Page 21 was entitled Professional Service Providers and included the following:
PROPERTY DEPOSIT  BOND
Strathearn Insurance
The SES application for [Scheme A] uses a Property  Deposit Bond to protect 100% of the 
deposit funds  invested by SES investors in the event that the developer defaults upon  his 
obligations within the applicable purchase agreements.
The Property Deposit  Bond  is arranged on behalf  of the developer  by Strathearn  Insurance  
Services Limited. Due to the regulated nature of the product offered any direct  questions 
relating specifically to the bond  aspect  of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn  
Insurance.
Please see Key Facts  document issued  by Strathearn  Insurance overleaf.
Thus when SISL produced and provided the key facts document for the IAD, it knew that 
the consumers  were being referred to the key facts for information about the bond. So SISL 
had an obligation  to ensure that the information  it provided about the bond was clear,  fair, 
and not misleading.
was the information provided clear,  fair, and not misleading?
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision, I remain  of the view that that SISL  did 
not provide clear, fair and not misleading information  about  the insurance  in its key facts  
document provided to Mr L.
SISL says that what it provided was an initial disclosure document (IDD). However,  I note 
that this document was referred  to as a key facts document by SISL itself on more than 
occasion. The IAD also refers to it as a key facts  document and not as an IDD.
In any event, as I explained in the provisional  decision, this key facts  document  was clearly  
intended as the source  of information about  the bond for potential customers thinking about 
Ref: DRN52694825investing in the schemes  and SISL  was aware of it. So I consider that SISL had an obligation  
to ensure that this communication was clear,  fair and not misleading.
did Mr L rely on the key facts document?
Having concluded  that the key facts document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading,  I 
need to consider how much reliance Mr L placed  on this document  before he decided to 
invest in Scheme A.
For the reasons  explained my provisional  decision I think it is reasonable to conclude that 
Mr L looked at what  SISL  stated in the key facts document about the bond, and relied on it 
when he decided to proceed with the scheme.
SISL says that members  of the IPIN network were frequently high net worth / sophisticated 
investors who were familiar with property club type investments.  It says that they were 
aware of the risks they were taking and had sufficient advice to make  an informed decision.
On the other hand, Mr L had previously only invested in structured products offered by 
banks. He says he was looking for a safe investment with a fairly high return,  to help him 
prepare for his retirement. Because of this, the security offered by the insurance was crucial 
in his decision making. He decided to invest the money in Scheme A because his 
understanding was that his funds would be protected from loss, but also had the opportunity 
for high growth  rates.
In my view the issue here is not so much  about consumers net worth or their knowledge of 
the investment  (i.e. the property scheme  opportunities) but about the insurance that was 
intended to offer protection should  something  go wrong with the investment. To that extent, I 
accept that Mr L was not expert enough to understand  the intricacies of the insurance 
product - for example  the solvency of the insurer or whether they would be eligible for FSCS 
protection should something happen  to the insurer. This is more so as the insurer  was based  
overseas. So I do not consider it unreasonable when Mr L says that he relied on SISLs 
information in relation  to the bond.
SISL has also said that investors  typically received  advice from other parties including  their 
lawyers, IPIN and potentially other independent financial advisers, and that is something we 
have failed to take into account.
I have considered what SISL  has said and I am not persuaded  by it. As previously 
mentioned, in the marketing literature IPIN clearly directed the potential investors towards 
SISL for information  about the bond  and not to other professionals.  As I understand it, IPIN 
was concerned that it or other related companies should not provide information or advice in 
relation to the insurance as they were not authorised by the FCA in that regard. This was 
why SISL was brought in to handle that part of the scheme.
Also, as noted  earlier, the key facts  document / IAD recommended that consumers seek 
independent advice on the investment proposals and contract. However, for information 
about the bond they were  directed to seek information from SISL.
Given all this, it seems  to me that the clear  intention was that SISL was responsible for 
providing information about the bond. So I am doubtful whether the potential investors would 
have been directed to other  professional people for information or advice about the bond.
Ref: DRN52694826Nevertheless, if Mr L considers that another professional also failed him in their obligations; 
it is up to him to decide whether he wants to take action against them. In my view, even if 
another professional was involved concerning the bond, that does not absolve  SISL  of the 
obligations it owed  to its customers or potential customers. Mr L considers that SISL  failed in 
its obligations to him and he is entitled to bring that complaint of his about SISL to us, which 
he has done.
SISL has also pointed  us to the bond schedule that was signed  by the investors.  It says that 
the schedule provided the name  and address  of the insurance company and so Mr L ought  
to have known  that the insurer was an overseas insurer.
Firstly, Im mindful  that SISLs key facts document was produced as part of the pre-sale 
literature, whereas the Schedule was only handed over after the investment had been 
arranged and monies paid over. And in any event, the document also did not highlight the 
risks involved adequately - for example, they did not highlight  the lack of FSCS protection.
SISL has also argued that Mr L would still have invested even if the key facts document had 
not been provided, simply in the knowledge that a deposit bond  was in place.
IPIN directed the potential investors to SISLs key facts document for information about 
NWIC and the insurance protection it provided.
In the key facts  document  SISL clearly gave  the impression that it was the expert  and it told 
the consumers  that they should  accept the policy as it was designed to work specifically 
with the investment proposal developed for IPIN SES investors".
As it happened, the insurer failed. Had the key facts document  provided  the appropriate 
warnings about  the insurer  then I do not think that Mr L would have gone ahead with the 
scheme.
In other  words, knowledge that a deposit  bond was in place  isnt the reason why Mr L 
invested in the scheme.  He invested  in the scheme  with the belief that the bond would 
satisfy his needs (i.e. protection  of his capital) and I consider that SISLs key facts 
document, which provided information  about  the bond, played a key role in leading  him to 
believe so.
The bond  cannot be considered in a vacuum.  It seems to me that to understand whether or 
not Mr L most likely  relied on the key facts document,  it is necessary to first understand the 
features of the overall scheme.  Then  consider the role played  by the deposit bond within that 
scheme. And then go on to consider  what  information was provided in relation to that 
product and whether the consumer relied  on that information.
Thus whilst I have considered the bond within the wider context of the investment - to be 
clear - the key question  I have considered is what the consumer has complained  about  - 
which is about the key facts document  provided by the SISL.
summary
In summary  I find that:
When Mr L decided to invest in Scheme A he was looking for a low risk investment with 
potential for good growth.
Ref: DRN52694827The underlying  investments  in properties offered potential for growth  but they carried  
higher risk of capital  loss. That would most likely  have not suited Mr Ls risk appetite.  
However, the security  of capital was provided  through the bond.
Given his risk appetite, I am satisfied that Mr L would have wanted to consider the 
information provided in relation to that bond  before  deciding to invest in the scheme. He 
was directed to look to SISLs  key facts  document for information about the bond. So I 
consider it reasonable to conclude that he relied on that information, along  with SISLs 
recommendation that he accept the policy, in deciding to invest  in the scheme.
SISL knew or ought to have known that it was its key facts  document that potential 
investors were directed to for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to 
ensure that the key facts  document was clear, fair and not misleading. For the reasons 
already explained, the key facts document did not provide clear, fair and not misleading  
information about the bond.
The scheme failed  and NWIC has been  liquidated. Mr L has suffered a loss as a result. 
I consider it more likely than not that had SISL  provided clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the risks involved with the bond,  he would not have invested in the 
scheme. So it is fair that SISL compensate him for the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr L 
in the position he would  have been in but for SISLs failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  it is my conclusion that had the key risks of the 
bond - which  was the key component of the SES - been explained clearly,  it is more likely 
than not that Mr L wouldnt  have invested  in Scheme A at all.
I am satisfied Mr L was looking to invest his money,  so I think he would have invested 
elsewhere, but with capital protection. It is not possible to say precisely what  he would have 
done differently.  But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair, given his objective  
for growth  with capital  protection.
To compensate Mr L fairly, the business should calculate  the position  Mr L would now be in 
if his investments had produced a return matching the average rate for fixed rate bonds with 
12 to 17 months maturity as published  by the Bank  of England.
I have chosen  this method of compensation because in my view Mr L wanted to achieve  a 
reasonable return without risking  any of his capital. The average  rate would be a fair 
measure given his circumstances and objective. It does not mean that Mr L would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return  a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The compensation payable to Mr L is the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value of their investment  If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Ref: DRN52694828actual value
This means  the amount  received by Mr L out of the scheme.
Any amount  received by Mr L from the scheme  should be deducted from the fair value at the 
point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation  from that point 
on.
It is not at all clear whether Mr L will receive any further disbursement from Scheme A. It 
seems unlikely. However, SISL  could take ownership of the investment if it wishes  to, 
provided Mr L agrees.  If it is not possible for SISL to take ownership, then it may request an 
undertaking from Mr L that he repays to SISL any amount he may receive from the 
investment in future.
fair value
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  the business  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
The calculation should be made from the date of investment to date of my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
To put things right, Strathearn Insurance  Services  Limited  should  pay to Mr L the fair 
compensation as set out above.  It should also pay interest at 8% simple  per year on this 
amount from date of decision  to date of settlement, if compensation is not paid within  28 
days of the business being notified  of acceptance.
Income tax may be payable on this interest payment.
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should  provide  details of its calculation to Mr L in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN52694829COPY - PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about a key facts document produced by Strathearn  Insurance Services  
Limited (SISL) in relation to a property  deposit  bond.
In summary,  Mr L says that SISL  failed to disclose material information and provide 
appropriate risk warnings in the key facts document. He says that he decided to invest  in a 
property investment scheme  (Scheme  A) based  solely upon the key facts document. The 
scheme failed and Mr L lost his capital. He says that had the full facts and risk disclosures 
been made in the key facts document, he would  not have invested  in the scheme  and 
suffered a financial loss.
background
Mr L is a member of IPIN Global Prospects Network (IPIN). This is an investment network 
which aims to provide  real estate schemes to its members. IPIN is the trading name  of a 
Spanish company   Global Prospects S.L.
IPIN typically marketed its schemes  as secure  exit strategies (SES). As I understand it, 
under this strategy,  the investors funded property developments such  as hotels, student 
accommodation and residential care homes by way of a deposit.  The deposits  were  initially 
sent to a lawyer  where they were  maintained within an escrow  facility. The developer would 
draw the deposit  down,  when needed, to finance  the project. The property  units  would be 
sold by the developer before a set date and the investor would get their deposit back, along 
with a share of any profits  from the sale.
A key characteristic of SES schemes was the protection offered to the investors  for their 
deposits. A Property  Deposit Bond (the bond) was put in place for each scheme. Typically, 
the bond was underwritten by an insurer. The property  developer  was the policy holder. 
The investors who paid the deposits,  such as Mr L, were named as beneficiaries.
So, if a project failed or the developer defaulted, the investors could claim any difference  
between the deposit paid and any money  already returned to them. The bond meant that 
investors were assured, as a minimum, the return of their capital.
The deposits  held in the escrow facility could be drawn down by the developer  only after 
they had put this insurance - the bond, in place for each scheme. Mr Ls complaint against 
SISL is in relation to the key facts document produced by SISL about this bond.
Mr L invested in the property  development  scheme (Scheme A) in September 2012,  paying 
a deposit of about £30,000. An insurer based  in Nevis, Northern & Western Insurance 
Company (NWIC)  underwrote  the bond. 
The company behind Scheme A went into liquidation in 2015.  Mr L received no payment 
from the property developer, so attempted to claim against the bond.  However,  NWIC itself 
entered liquidation  in January  2015. NWIC was not covered by the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Ref: DRN526948210Mr L complained to SISL that the literature it provided in the form of the key facts document  
failed to advise  him of certain information  about NWIC, and was misleading. He said SISL 
failed to make Mr L aware the insurer providing a property deposit bond  was not regulated  
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),  and that if the insurer  defaulted  Mr L would have 
no recourse to the FSCS.  He said he had invested, solely  on the basis  of advice provided 
by [SISL], and wouldnt have invested if hed been aware of this information.
SISL did not respond to Mr Ls complaint, so he referred the matter to this service. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to uphold Mr 
Ls complaint for the reasons set out below.
can we consider the complaint?
SISL has previously objected to this service considering this complaint, and a number of 
others similar to it. Briefly,  it has said Mr L wasnt its customer, the deposit protection 
insurance wasnt a regulated product  and that it did not carry out any regulated activity.
This was considered  at length by us in another similar case and SISL  recognises  that the 
jurisdiction issues that are relevant to this case have  been considered in the jurisdiction 
decision in that case. So I do not want to repeat that here. However, for avoidance of doubt - 
I am satisfied that this complaint  is within  our jurisdiction. In summary  I consider  that: 
(a)The property deposit bond about which  the consumer has complained is a contract of 
insurance.
(b)SISL carried out the regulated activity  of arranging (bringing  about) deals in investments 
and/or making  arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments.
(c)Mr L is an eligible complainant.
relevant considerations
I am required to determine this complaint  on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The FCA handbook  sets out the Principles which are a general statement of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients,  and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential  client (and so potential  customer). 
Ref: DRN526948211Mr L was a potential  customer, and his complaint is essentially about  what  SISL 
communicated (or failed  to communicate)  to him through the key facts document. So I 
consider that Principle  7 is relevant here.
I also consider that Principle 6 is relevant in this instance, which  says:  "A firm must  pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
IPIN provided Mr L with promotional literature about  the scheme. It was called the 
Investment Analysis Document (IAD).  The IAD stated that the bond would protect the full 
amount of the deposit in the event of a contractual default by the developer. Investors  were  
referred to a Key Facts document  produced by SISL, which was included  in the IAD.
The IAD said:
"The property deposit is provided by the developer in association with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  21)". 
Page 21 was entitled Professional Service Providers and included the following:
PROPERTY DEPOSIT  BOND
Strathearn Insurance
The SES application for [Scheme A] uses a Property  Deposit Bond to protect 100% of the 
deposit funds  invested by SES investors in the event that the developer defaults upon  his 
obligations within the applicable purchase agreements.
The Property Deposit  Bond  is arranged on behalf  of the developer  by Strathearn  Insurance  
Services Limited. Due to the regulated nature of the product offered any direct  questions 
relating specifically to the bond  aspect  of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn  
Insurance.
Please see Key Facts  document issued  by Strathearn  Insurance overleaf.
Thus when SISL produced and provided the key facts document for the IAD, it knew that 
the consumers  were being referred to the key facts for information about the bond. So SISL 
had an obligation  to ensure that the information  it provided about the bond was clear,  fair, 
and not misleading.
was the information provided clear,  fair, and not misleading?
Mr L says it was not. He says:
SISL did not disclose the name  of the insurer, simply saying it was a single  
international insurance company;
SISL did not make clear the insurer was not FCA regulated;
SISL did not make clear that if NWIC failed to pay out under  the bond  he would not be 
able to pursue  a claim under the FSCS; and
had SISL provided information which was clear, fair, and not misleading, he would not 
have entered  into the transaction and therefore would not have suffered a loss.
Ref: DRN526948212Having considered everything, I am minded to agree that the information provided  in the key 
facts document  was not clear or fair; and was misleading. Ill explain why:
There is no mention in the key facts that the insurer was NWIC. The document  does not 
say that NWIC was not regulated by the FCA. And there was no warning that should  NWIC  
fail to meet its obligations, consumers would be unable to claim their losses under the FSCS.
Also, considering that this was the document that the consumers were  referred  to in the 
marketing literature for explanation about  the bond,  it would be reasonable to expect that it 
explained the key terms and conditions  of the policy but that wasnt  the case.  So I consider 
that the information wasnt  clear.
Further, the key facts document said: "Strathearn Insurance recommends that you accept 
this policy, as it is designed to work specifically with the investment proposal developed for 
IPIN SES investors".
However it did not highlight the potential risks as noted earlier.  I consider  that failing to 
balance its recommendation to potential  customers to accept the policy  with explanation of 
the potential risks meant that the information  was presented  in a misleading, and not in a fair 
way.
Overall, I consider that SISL did not provide clear, fair and not misleading  information about 
the insurance in its key facts document provided to Mr L.
did Mr L rely on the key facts document?
Having concluded  that the key facts document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading,  I 
need to consider how much reliance Mr L placed  on this document  before he decided to 
make the relevant investment.
Mr L says he relied solely on the key facts  document before making his decision to invest,  
and that it was primarily the secure exit strategy that made the investment attractive to him. 
To determine the likelihood  of this, I have  considered what  it was Mr L was looking for when 
he decided to invest in Scheme A.
Mr L was in his fifties and working full time as an engineer. He was looking to invest some of 
his money to help prepare for and support  his retirement. He had previously invested in 
structured products offered by banks, and says the prospect  of higher return  but with 
guaranteed capital protection  offered  by Scheme A attracted him to this opportunity. He says 
that if he hadnt invested in Scheme A he would have  continued  to invest  with the banks.
Property schemes generally  have potential for higher returns. So I can see why Mr L 
considered this one. On the other hand, they tend to involve a higher level of risk and that 
would not be suitable for Mr Ls capital safety objective. However, in this instance the 
scheme was marketed as low risk exposure  and it is clear  from the promotional  literature 
that the protection offered through the bond  was a key selling  point to convince the 
consumers that the scheme was indeed low risk. So, given his objective and 
circumstances, I am persuaded that Mr L would  not have considered investing in Scheme  A 
without the protection offered by the bond.
So the next question I have to consider  is whether Mr L relied on SISLs key facts  document 
for information about the bond  before  deciding  to invest in the scheme.
Ref: DRN526948213It seems  to me that to understand whether or not Mr L most likely relied on the key facts 
document, it is necessary to first understand the features  of the overall  scheme. Then 
consider the role played by the deposit bond within that scheme. And then go on to consider 
what information was provided in relation to that product and whether Mr L relied on that 
information.
Thus whilst I have considered the bond within the wider context of the investment - to be 
clear - the key question  I have considered is what the consumer has complained  about  - 
which is about the key facts document  provided by SISL.
It seems  to me that when Mr L was provided with the marketing literature he would want  to 
look at the information concerning the bond  to ensure that it met his objective. And IPIN 
directed potential investors like Mr L to SISLs  key facts document  for that information.
The IAD said:
The Property Deposit Bond is arranged on behalf of the developer and IPIN SES investors  
by Strathearn  Insurance Services Limited.  Due to the regulated nature of the product 
offered, any direct questions relating specifically to the bond  aspect of the SES offering 
should be directed  to Strathearn  Insurance using the contact details below.  Please see Key 
Facts document  issued by Strathearn Insurance 
This clearly portrays SISL as the entity  that potential investors  needed to look to for 
information about the bond. And SISL portrayed itself in the key facts as a specialised 
advisory services company dedicated to residential  and commercial  real estate markets. 
SISL also said, The companys  solutions  are supported  by leading international speciality 
insurance groups .
And SISL  stated in the key facts:
"What services will Strathearn Insurance provide you with?
Strathearn Insurance recommends that you accept this policy,  as it is designed to work  
specifically with the investment proposal  developed for IPIN SES investors. Strathearn  
Insurance does  not offer advice on the SES investment  proposal,  the associated  contracts  or 
their interpretation.
You are recommended  to obtain  independent legal advice on all associated  contracts, and 
the duties, responsibilities  and obligations of the parties to the contracts."
The way this is written  I consider that a distinction was made between  the insurance  part of 
the scheme and the rest of the investment, and that SISL was portrayed as the financial  
business tasked  with providing information about  the insurance.
So, Im minded to find that Mr L looked  at the things SISL said in the key facts document in 
respect of the bond, and reasonably relied  upon  these representations  when  deciding  to 
invest in Scheme A.
SISL knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that potential  investors  would be directed to 
its key facts document for information  about the bond. So it had an obligation to ensure that 
Ref: DRN526948214document was clear,  fair, and not misleading. But, as Ive set out above, Im not presently 
persuaded it was.
The scheme Mr L invested in failed and NWIC  has been liquidated. Mr L has suffered a loss 
as a result. And, from what Ive seen  so far, I think if SISL  had provided  information about 
the risks involved with the bond which was clear,  fair, and not misleading; Mr L wouldnt 
have invested  in the scheme. So it is fair that SISL compensate him for the loss.
I am aware  that the bond schedule provided  the name and address of the insurance 
company. However,  Im mindful  that SISLs key facts  document  was produced as part of the 
pre-sale literature, whereas the Schedule was only handed over after the investment had 
been arranged  and monies  paid over. And, in any event, the documents provided  later also 
did not highlight  the risks involved  adequately - for example, they did not highlight  the lack of 
FSCS protection.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr L 
in the position he would  have been in but for SISLs failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  it is my provisional conclusion that if the key risks of 
the bond - which was the key component of the SES  had been  explained  clearly,  it is more 
likely than not that Mr L wouldnt have invested  in the SES scheme at all.
I am satisfied Mr L was looking to invest his money,  so I think he would have invested 
elsewhere, but with capital protection so he could achieve his retirement objective. It is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done  differently. But I am satisfied that what  I 
have set out below is fair, given his objective  for growth  with capital protection.
To compensate Mr L fairly, the business should calculate  the position  Mr L would now be in 
if his investments had produced a return matching the average rate for fixed rate bonds with 
12 to 17 months maturity as published  by the Bank  of England.
I have chosen  this method of compensation because in my view Mr L wanted to achieve  a 
reasonable return without risking  any of his capital. The average  rate would be a fair 
measure given his circumstances and objective. It does not mean that Mr L would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return  a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The compensation payable to Mr L is the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value of his investment. If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
actual value
This means  the amounts  received by Mr L out of the scheme.
As I understand it, Mr L has so far received  only one disbursement of about  £600 from 
Scheme As administrators in September 2017. If that is not the case, Mr L should let me 
know.
Ref: DRN526948215Any amount  received by Mr L from the scheme  should be deducted from the fair value at the 
point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation  from that point 
on.
It is not clear  whether  Mr L will receive  any further disbursement  from Scheme A. It seems  
unlikely. However, SISL could take ownership of the investment if it wishes to, provided Mr L 
agrees. If it is not possible for SISL  to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking 
from Mr L that he repays to SISL any amount he may receive from the investment in future.
fair value
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  the business  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
The calculation should be made from the date of investment to date of my decision.
my provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions I should receive  from either  party by 23 February  2019,  
my provisional decision is that this complaint  should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of 
it, Strathearn  Insurance Services  Limited should  pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
It should also pay interest at 8% simple per year on this amount from date of decision to date 
of settlement, if compensation is not paid within 28 days  of the business being notified of 
acceptance. Income tax may be payable on this interest payment. 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should  provide  details of its calculation to Mr L in a 
clear, simple  format.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5269482