K821x#15complaint
Miss R says CashEuroNet UK LLC (Quick Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 6 payday loans Quick Quid provided to Miss R between  15 April 
2015 and 6 June 2016. Miss Rs lending history  is as follows:
Loan number Date lent Amount lent
Loan 1 15/04/2015 £100.00
Loan 2 10/06/2015 £100.00
Loan 3 31/08/2015 £50.00
Loan 4 10/12/2015 £150.00
Loan 5 28/01/2016 £100.00
Loan 6 06/06/2016 £150.00
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Rs complaint in part and thought the loans from 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given to her. Quick Quid  disagreed and so the complaint was passed  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN50035522I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Miss R could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Rs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, he thought that Quick  Quid  had carried  out proportionate 
checks on loans 1 to 3. As neither  Quick  Quid nor Miss R have disputed  the adjudicators 
findings on these  loans, I wont comment further  on them.
As well as considering  if Quick Quid carried out proportionate checks,  Ive also looked  at the 
overall pattern  of Quick Quids lending history with Miss R, with a view to seeing  if there was 
a point at which Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Rs case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
By loan 4 Miss R had been borrowing from Quick Quid  for over 7 months without any 
significant breaks between repaying  one loan and taking out another.  I appreciate 
that there were  gaps  in lending - for example 52 days between loans 2 and 3 and 69 
days between loans  3 and 4. But Im not persuaded that the gaps were long enough 
for Quick  Quid to have  reasonably  thought that Miss R wasnt  in a cycle  of 
dependency in obtaining credit.
Miss R applied for a loan after loan 3 was repaid but before loan 4 was agreed. Quick 
Quid asked for further information from Miss R to verify whether the loan would be 
affordable, but as Miss R didnt provide the requested information, the loan didnt go 
ahead. And given  this, I think Quick Quid shouldve  done  more when it agreed loans 
4, 5 and 6 to check if they were affordable. 
Miss R was unable to repay loans 4, 5 and 6 when they fell due - which is indicative 
that Miss R was experiencing financial difficulties. This leads me to think  that had 
Quick Quid done more to verify affordability  before  lending loans 4,5 and 6, it in all 
likelihood wouldve identified that Miss R wasnt able to sustainably  repay  those 
loans.
Loan 4 was for the highest amount  yet. This,  together  with the previous borrowing, 
suggests that Miss R was, by that point,  dependent on borrowing to bridge the gap in 
her finances. 
Ref: DRN50035523Miss R wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed Quick Quid as the amounts 
Miss R borrowed  were  for similar  amounts. So Miss R had paid large amounts of interest  to, 
in effect, service a debt to Quick Quid over an extended period of time. And I think that 
Miss R lost out because  Quick Quid continued to provide  borrowing  from loan 4 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Miss Rs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  Loans  4 onwards. I therefore require Quick  Quid to put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss R paid on Loan 4 (taken  on 10 December 2015) 
and onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 onwards should be removed from 
Miss Rs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick  Quid  must give Miss R a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Rs complaint. To put matters  right,  
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  pay Miss R compensation  and amend her credit file as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5003552