K820x#14complaint
Ms R says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Ms R bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a store card.  It covered her 
card in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Rs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Rs store  card application had a section  for PPI, amongst other optional extras.  It 
explained what the policy was for. Then  there was a box Ms R could  tick if she wanted to 
buy PPI, or which could be left blank  if she didnt want it. The box was ticked  and Ms R 
signed the application to confirm her choices. Ms R says she may not have understood what 
she was applying for, but I think the form made it clear what  PPI was and gave  her a clear  
choice, and ultimately it was Ms Rs responsibility to read and understand what  she was 
choosing. Overall, I think that FICL made  Ms R aware she had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that she chose  to take it at the time.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms R, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Ms R enough  information  to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Ms R about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, Ms R chose to take out the policy  - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. The PPI covered Ms R for 
longer than her work benefits,  and wouldve paid out on top of those benefits. And she 
doesnt seem to have  had any other  significant cover  in case she lost her job. So it looks  like 
the policy could  have been  useful  for Ms R in case something went  wrong. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Ms R could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont  think that better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking it out.
Ref: DRN52717412my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5271741