K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  about a number  of disputed transactions on their joint account  and 
that Nationwide Building Society didnt process  a chargeback on the transactions.  
background
Around 2012 a significant number of debit card transactions were made on Mr and Mrs Ks 
current account to online gambling accounts.  The total amount of the transactions  was in 
excess of £40,000.  Mr and Mrs K say they didnt make the transactions  and think Nationwide 
should have done more  at the time by raising a chargeback. 
Nationwide says that it has no record of Mr and Mrs K requesting  a chargeback  and even if it 
had, it didnt think it would have been  successful.  
The investigator who considered the complaint explained  that he didnt think  there was 
enough evidence  to demonstrate Mr and Mrs K actually asked for a chargeback  at the time. 
And having considered what Nationwide had provided, even if a chargeback  had been  
attempted he didnt  think it would have been  successful. 
Mr and Mrs K were  unhappy with the investigators conclusions so the complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision. 
I am aware  that Mr and Mrs K previously had a complaint considered by our service  in 
relation to the transactions  on the account. The ombudsman set out his final decision on that 
case, which dealt  with the issue around whether or not the transactions  were  authorised.  As 
already set out to Mr and Mrs K, I shall not be reconsidering that decision or commenting  
further on it. My decision will only focus on the current issues  that have been raised more 
recently around chargeback.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so my decision will come as 
further disappointment  to Mr and Mrs K as I have come to the same  overall  conclusions  as 
the investigator, for what  are broadly  the same reasons.  
Mr and Mrs K say they ask Nationwide,  through a letter, to raise a chargeback  around the 
time of the disputed  transactions. Nationwide says that it didnt however receive  any request 
from Mr and Mrs K relating to a chargeback so didnt attempt a chargeback at the time. 
The transactions relating to this dispute happened  around 2012 and I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs K may not therefore have a copy  of the letter they say was sent to Nationwide.  
Even if there  was a copy this doesnt  however mean it was received  by Nationwide. 
Nationwide says it has no record  of receiving the chargeback request and although I note 
what Mr and Mrs K have  said about  this, Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Nationwide  has 
been anything  other than honest about this. 
I also think its worth noting that I havent  seen any mention of chargeback in the earlier 
correspondence from around the time of the transactions in 2012.  Nor was it actually 
mentioned initially  when Mr and Mrs K raised this dispute more recently. The original 
complaint raised  under  this case  was relating to a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Ref: DRN54043482Credit Act and it appears  that chargeback was only mentioned  after it was apparent that 
Section 75 didnt apply to these transactions. 
Having considered all of the submissions  from the parties in this case Im not persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs K did actually  send the letter requesting a chargeback  to Nationwide. The 
evidence in this case appears to contradict Mr and Mrs Ks recollection of whether they sent 
a letter  around  2012. Even if it was sent, Im satisfied there is nothing to indicate  it was 
received by Nationwide. Because of this I dont think Nationwide  have acted unreasonably 
by not attempting the chargeback. 
Even if a chargeback  was attempted at the time, I have  seen some  correspondence between  
Nationwide and the merchant (the retailer) and I think its more  likely than not that any 
chargeback attempt would have been  defended and ultimately  unsuccessful. 
There are time limits for making  a chargeback claim and it would  not now be possible for 
Nationwide to make  a chargeback.
While I again realise Mr and Mrs K will be unhappy  with my decision, I dont think  Nationwide 
has been unreasonable or treated them unfairly in relation to the chargeback issues.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against Nationwide  
Building Society. Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2019.
Mr and Mrs K have  said that they may consider taking legal action against Nationwide.  
If they do not accept  my decision  here they will be free to continue  their dispute through the 
courts. 
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5404348