K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  HSBC  UK Bank plc withdrawing an arranged overdraft facility 
on their joint bank account. They also complain about fees and missed  payments on Mr Ds 
credit card account. Theyre also unhappy  about HSBCs responses to letters  they sent.
background
Mr and Mrs D hold a joint bank account with HSBC. Mr D also has a credit card with HSBC.
HSBC sent letters to Mr and Mrs D about  the bank account. It said it was getting close to the 
arranged overdraft limit on the account  because there was no money  going  into it. 
A subsequent letter  said the arranged overdraft was being removed. Mr D phoned  HSBC  on 
the same  day the letter was sent. He said he didnt want to lose the arranged  overdraft on 
the account. 
The overdraft wasnt restored. Unarranged  overdraft fees were  added to the account. Direct  
debit payments werent made, including two to Mr Ds HSBC  credit card account. 
Mr D complained to HSBC, saying hed been told the overdraft would be restored.  He said 
HSBC was ignoring his letters and the points hed raised. He also complained about HSBCs 
handling of his credit card account.  He said that missed payments, interest and charges 
incurred for going  over the limit of the account  were due to HSBCs failings.
HSBC responded  to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. It said it shouldve  dealt with Mr Ds phone 
call differently. So itd restore  his overdraft limit. But the balance on the account exceeded 
the arranged limit.
Mr and Mrs D werent  happy with this response. Our investigator  reviewed their complaint. 
They thought HSBC hadnt done anything wrong beyond  what itd already  identified. They 
didnt think HSBC needed to do anything more  to put things right.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept this outcome. They said HSBC had ignored their letters. And it 
hadnt done what it said itd do when Mr D called. They  also said HSBC  was responsible for 
the interest and fees incurred on the credit card. They asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive identified three areas Mr and Mrs D have  complained about. These are the handling of 
the facility on their account, HSBCs  response  to their letters and the handling of the credit  
card account. 
The overdraft
I dont think it was unfair for HSBC to initially send letters  to Mr and Mrs D about the account 
and overdraft facility.  Its records showed that payments into the account had stopped a 
number of months before but payments from the account had continued.  This wasnt 
sustainable. The balance  on the account  was approaching the arranged  overdraft limit. It 
Ref: DRN50502642had received no contact  from Mr and Mrs D about their circumstances or why payments 
werent being made to the account. 
HSBC sent a letter to say the arranged overdraft was being removed. Ive looked at HSBCs 
terms and conditions. These say that HSBC can ask for immediate  repayment  of an 
overdraft, but itll usually give customers advance notice. I think HSBC  did this. It had written  
to Mr and Mrs D twice saying  the account was overdrawn and that theyd need to look at 
whether the overdraft was suitable.  But theyd had no contact from Mr and Mrs D. Nor had 
any payments been made into the account. I dont think  it was unreasonable  in these 
circumstances to withdraw the overdraft. 
Mr D phoned HSBC  and spoke about the status  of the account.  I think Mr D could 
reasonably have assumed from the call that the arranged overdraft was going to be restored. 
Hed specifically asked  for this. And he was told not to worry by the advisor. So it follows that 
the overdraft should  have  been restored at that point. When Mr D phoned the overdraft  
hadnt exceeded the arranged limit. 
HSBC has said that this call should have been handled differently. Its said Mr D should have 
been transferred  to the Financial Guidance  Team (FGT). When he spoke  to HSBC, Mr D 
said he hadnt been working  since October.  But he was due to start work soon. Mr Ds told 
us he was negotiating with his new employer about the salary and start date when he 
phoned. He started  work about  six weeks after the call. And he was paid a month after that.
I think that if Mr D had spoken to the FGT, theyd have been able to obtain this information. 
Ive asked HSBC  what it would have done if it had spoken to Mr D and hed told them  what 
was happening with his new job. Its said it would potentially have considered a short term 
plan, with either no payments or small payments  for two months, and then for Mr D to 
contact it once he knew when hed be paid and how much. At that point, it would have 
looked at putting a covering limit for the overdraft or a managed  loan agreement to cover the 
overdraft and credit card.  It would have recommended he stop any payments from the 
account. And it also would  have suggested downgrading his account so Mr and Mrs D no 
longer paid an account fee.
So it seems  that, if HSBC had transferred Mr Ds phone call to the FGT, it wouldnt have 
removed the overdraft which is what it actually did. So I think  HSBC were  wrong  to do that.
The letters
Mr D first wrote to HSBC three weeks after his phone call. HSBC  had sent letters saying the 
account was in an unarranged overdraft. HSBCs records showed  they tried to contact 
Mr and Mrs D by telephone after they received his letter. And on the same day they sent a 
letter asking Mr and Mrs D to contact them. I know Mr D says they didnt  call him or send the 
letter. But based  on its records  Im satisfied it did phone and send the letter.  
HSBC sent another letter to Mr and Mrs D two days later. It asked for a payment  to be made 
into the account. I dont think it was reasonable to send this letter  two days after theyd sent 
a letter  asking him to call. I dont think theyd allowed enough time for him to receive  the 
letter and respond to them before sending this new letter.
Mr D wrote to HSBC  again a week later. He said his previous letter  had been ignored.  I can 
understand why hed feel that way. It didnt  address  what hed raised. Hes said he wrote to 
Ref: DRN50502643HSBC rather than phoned because he was concerned  itd ignored what  had been  said in the 
earlier phone call. 
 
HSBC recorded  a complaint after they received this letter.  But Ive seen no evidence they 
attempted to contact  Mr and Mrs D to discuss or acknowledge the complaint then. A letter  
was sent to Mr and Mrs D. But its contents  were  the same as previous letters sent to 
Mr and Mrs D about rejected direct debit  payments.  I dont think it was appropriate  for HSBC  
to send an automated  letter about the status  of the account and overdraft when it had 
registered a complaint about that issue but hadnt told Mr and Mrs D it had done so. 
HSBC sent two further letters to Mr and Mrs D before  they responded to the complaint. Ive 
seen no evidence HSBC  attempted  to contact Mr and Mrs D before it sent these letters. It 
was aware of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about the overdraft.  But it still sent letters  requesting 
immediate repayment.  And it withdrew  the facilities offered by the card. I dont  think  this was 
fair. It hadnt responded to a complaint which had been made about the overdraft  facility.
HSBC responded  to Mr Ds complaint two months  after they recorded it. Hed sent another  
letter to HSBC in this period. I dont think theres any need to cover  that letter in detail. The 
content of its similar  to the earlier letters in outlining the reasons for Mr Ds unhappiness. 
And as Ive said, I can understand why he thought his letters were being ignored.  
Mr D responded to HSBCs response  to his complaint. He took issue with a number  of the 
points raised in the letter. I dont think I need to address all of these again. Theyre  covered 
by other  parts  of my findings. But Mr D particularly objected  to HSBC saying in its letter  hed 
stated he wasnt in financial  difficulties.  
I think that Mr Ds reference to having lost his job and asking for his overdraft to be 
reinstated could  have  acted as an indicator that he was in short term financial difficulties. But 
Im also satisfied that what he said made it appear  that such  this was a temporary  issue  and 
would be quickly resolved. He said hed be starting a new job shortly.  And he said hed be 
making large  payments into the account. He didnt make any reference to being in financial 
difficulties in any of his earlier letters. 
The credit card
Mr Ds complaint to HSBC was that interest  and fees had been charged on his credit card for 
going over the agreed credit limit because it hadnt  administered the overdraft  properly. I 
cant agree  that this is the case. The credit card account balance exceeded the agreed limit 
more than nine months  before HSBC withdrew the overdraft. 
But two direct debit  payments  to the credit  card account were  rejected after the overdraft 
was removed. HSBC  has said that if its FGT had spoken to Mr D when he phoned, it would  
have recommended stopping all payments from the account. Doing so would have meant 
that direct  debit payments to the credit card werent  rejected. So I dont think its fair for 
HSBC to have  added rejected direct debit payment fees to the credit  card account. I dont 
think its unfair to have charged  late and missed payment fees on the account.  No payments 
were made to the account after HSBC told them it was cancelling  the direct debit payments. 
Regardless of their complaint to HSBC, the terms and conditions  of the credit card account 
require payments be made on the balance. No payments were  made,  and so the charges 
could reasonably be applied.
Ref: DRN50502644Putting things right
I think that to put things  right with the bank account, HSBC should restore the overdraft at 
the £1400  limit which was previously  in place. I think it should  restore  the balance of the 
account to what  it was when Mr D phoned, removing  all the fees and charges which have 
been applied  since then. 
Mr and Mrs D pay an account fee every month to HSBC. And while  its possible that if Mr D 
had spoken to the FGT, the account would have been downgraded and theyd no longer 
have been paying the fee, Mr and Mrs D continued to have the benefits of the account 
available. So they should still be liable for the account fee. This should  be applied  to the 
balance on the account from the date of Mr Ds call. And itd be entitled  to charge interest 
from that date onwards  on the arranged overdraft  balance  in accordance with its terms and 
conditions.
Im aware that adding  these charges will make the balance exceed the arranged overdraft 
limit. But Mr and Mrs D havent, to my knowledge,  paid into the account since  Mr D started 
his new role. This is in spite  of Mr D now having started his new job and potentially being  in 
a position to pay into the account. Even though  this dispute has been  ongoing during this 
time, they still should act to mitigate  their losses. I dont think  I should ask HSBC  to do 
anything different than apply  its normal  terms and conditions to the account. And I think  
Mr and Mrs D need to be aware that if they dont start making payments into the account, 
HSBCs terms  and conditions would potentially allow it to remove  the overdraft facility again. 
HSBC should  also remove  the unpaid direct  debit fees from Mr Ds credit  card balance. But I 
think it should be allowed  to maintain  the missed payment fees which  would have been 
charged. And references to missed  and late payments on his credit  file can remain.
I agree  that HSBC  not transferring Mr Ds call to the FGT had an impact on Mr and Mrs D. 
Its said if it had done so, it would have acted  differently and tried to come  to a solution.  
Mr Ds told us the continued uncertainty about  what  was happening with the account caused  
him stress.  HSBC also sent letters to Mr and Mrs D which didnt  address  their complaint. The 
letters requested  payments  to the account  at a time when Mr and Mrs D were disputing 
HSBCs actions. I think HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs D £250 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mr D and HSBC responded to my provisional  decision. 
Mr D thought it was unfair to allow HSBC to add the account and overdraft fees to the 
balance when looking at how to put things  right.  He thought HSBC should be asked to put 
the balance back  to what it had been  before  the dispute started. He said hed made it clear 
to HSBC that he wasnt prepared to pay into the account or use it until the complaint was 
resolved. And so he said he hadnt used the benefits of the account during that period.
HSBC said it didnt  think it should  refund interest  and charges from the date of its final 
response. It said it had reinstated  the overdraft limit three months after Mr Ds call. HSBC 
said the letters which had been sent were automated and it was obliged  to send them, so it 
couldnt have  stopped  them being  sent.  It also felt the £250 compensation Id suggested  was 
high because Mr and Mrs D hadnt  responded to letters it had sent or paid into either the 
current or credit card accounts.
Ref: DRN50502645my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked again  at my provisional 
decision and considered the points  raised by Mr D and HSBC when they responded. Ill only 
look now at the points of my provisional  decision Mr and Mrs D and HSBC didnt agree with. 
As a number of the points I made havent  been  disputed, Ill assume both parties agree with 
them.
Ive noted HSBCs comments  about  having reinstated the overdraft in May 2019,  and can 
see that this is what  it did. But my recommendation was that it should act as if it had 
reinstated the overdraft when Mr D had phoned.  There  was a three  month period where the 
account was in an unarranged overdraft and so fees were charged on that basis.  Ive said it 
should calculate its fees and interest charges as if the overdraft had been in place since  
Mr Ds call, not three months later. As Ive outlined, I think this is a fair and reasonable 
solution to that part of the dispute.
Mr D thinks its unfair  to allow  HSBC to charge fees and interest during the time when his 
complaint was ongoing. I can see he wrote  to HSBC to ask for the fees and charges to be 
suspended until his complaint was resolved. Theres nothing  to show HSBC  ever agreed to 
this. Its not disputed that the current account  was overdrawn irrespective of this complaint. 
The credit card balance  was also over the agreed limit.
According to the terms and conditions of the account, interest will be charged on an 
overdraft, whether its authorised or not. The terms and conditions of the credit  card say fees 
will be charged if no payments are made, and interest will be charged on the balance.  And 
just because Mr and Mrs D decided not to use the account or its benefits, or the credit  card,  
they still had access to them. Mr and Mrs D were aware fees and interest would  be charged,  
as they asked for them to be suspended  while the complaint was being  looked into. But 
without any indication of HSBC agreeing to this, they didnt make any payments to the 
accounts which meant the fees were charged.  They  didnt do enough  to mitigate their loss. 
 
I understand HSBCs argument  that some of its letters  were  automated.  But as Ive said 
above, I think it would have been confusing  for Mr and Mrs D to receive these  letters.  Ive no 
doubt Mr and Mrs D were  aware of the balance on the current  account. They were in a 
dispute with HSBC about that very matter. And so the automated letters  served no obvious 
purpose. I think its fair to have expected the letters  not to be sent, regardless of how they 
were generated, while HSBC was looking into their complaint. 
With regards to the compensation amount Id suggested, I think  this is appropriate. Ive 
outlined the reasons for this in my provisional decision. HSBC  said Mr and Mrs D didnt  
respond to the letters  it sent. But the evidence shows they did so, and their letters  werent 
properly responded to. And Ive said HSBC  need  not have sent the letters.  HSBC also says 
Mr and Mrs D made  the situation worse  by not paying into the account or credit  card 
account. I agree with this assessment. But Ive said HSBC can add fees and interest to the 
accounts in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
The compensation amount I suggested  was for the poor service  Mr and Mrs D received from 
HSBC by being misadvised and not being directed to the correct team when Mr D phoned, 
the sending of unnecessary letters and the lack of response to their letters  complaining 
Ref: DRN50502646about the service  theyd  received. I think £250 in total for these points suitably recognises 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to them. 
my final decision
To summarise, HSBC should have restored the arranged overdraft after Mr Ds phone  call. 
And it shouldve responded to Mr Ds letters instead of sending  automated  letters requesting  
repayments and withdrawing services.
But I dont think HSBCs actions in initially withdrawing the overdraft were unfair. And I dont 
think it caused the credit card account  to exceed the agreed balance. Its reference  to 
Mr and Mrs D not being  in financial difficulties wasnt unreasonable based  on the evidence 
available to them.
Its my final decision to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  in part. To put things right, I order  
HSBC UK Bank plc to:
Restore Mr and Mrs Ds account to the position  it was when Mr D phoned HSBC,  
including the arranged overdraft limit of £1400.
Apply the monthly account fee and overdraft charges to the account from the date of 
Mr Ds phone call to the date of settlement.
Remove the rejected direct debit fees from the credit  card account balance.
Pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs D.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5050264