K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV (CIGNA) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  in declining her claim under her health  insurance policy.  She 
wants her claim  honoured and the exclusion added to her policy  removed.
background
Mrs F had a private health insurance policy with CIGNA which  she took out in April 2017, 
which was designed  to reimburse medical  and related  expenses. She made a claim which  
was declined as CIGNA  said Mrs Fs condition  of interstitial cystitis was pre-existing. It also 
said that if it had known about  her condition at the outset, it wouldve specifically excluded 
the condition on her policy and had now recorded any urinary  tract/bladder issue as an 
exclusion.
Mrs F complained to CIGNA, saying that she had told CIGNA in the phone  interview that she 
had suffered urinary tract infections, in the same way as a person  suffered throat  infections,  
and had seen  doctors  over the years for multiple  reasons, but the member  of staff said it 
didnt need to be recorded.  Mrs F said shed answered all questions honestly and accurately, 
and denied she had a pre-existing condition. She said women  often had urinary  infections.
CIGNA said multiple urinary infections werent mentioned in the calls and Mrs F said that she 
had no pre-existing conditions, which was incorrect as she had the symptoms; she didnt 
need a formal diagnosis to have  a pre-existing condition.  It pointed  out that Mrs F had said 
that she hadnt had treatment for urinary issues, when the records  showed that she had and 
seen a doctor about them before the policy started.
Mrs F complained to us, saying that she did mention shed been  treated for minor infections, 
including urinary tract infections and as she said they werent chronic, they werent  noted.  
The investigators view was that having  listened  to the calls between Mrs F and CIGNA, 
Mrs F said that she hadnt been  diagnosed  with or treated for any urinary condition. But the 
medical evidence  showed that before the policy was taken out, Mrs F had been treated for a 
urinary tract infection in 2016. 
The investigator said that having  listened  to the calls, Mrs F wasnt  told by CIGNA over the 
phone there  was no need to record such infections. The investigator  also noted that the 
issue of Mrs Fs interstitial cystitis wasnt the reason why her claim was rejected and the 
exclusion added  it was the inaccurate answer to the question about  treatment for urinary 
infections. He was satisfied that if Mrs F had given the correct answer, the exclusion 
wouldve been added from the outset. The complaint wasnt  upheld.
Mrs F disagreed. She said interstitial cystitis had no connection with urinary  tract infections. 
Mrs F said in any event  women commonly suffered such infections and sent a copy of part of 
her friends application to CIGNA for health insurance who didnt  have such exclusions 
applied, despite  having had urinary tract infections in the past. Mrs F also said she had 
suffered from three urinary  infections  within six months, which  wasnt  uncommon. The 
investigator didnt  change his view. Mrs F thought  that CIGNA was deliberately  trying  to save 
costs, which  was why it imposed the exclusion.
Ref: DRN59209352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The relevant rules  and industry  guidelines 
say that CIGNA has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly  and fairly. And it shouldnt  
reject a claim unreasonably.
I think Mrs Fs interstitial cystitis  is a red herring and isnt relevant to why CIGNA has 
rejected her claim and imposed an exclusion. I agree that the medical  evidence  available to 
both CIGNA  and this service shows that the condition isnt linked to urinary tract infections.  
Mrs F hasnt  suggested that she never has suffered from such  infections; on the contrary,  
shes clear that she has and they arent  uncommon.
The issue  is that before  the policy was taken out, Mrs F had several such infections and was 
treated for them (this is from both Mrs Fs own account and the available  medical evidence). 
She didnt  tell CIGNA  about them (and we have listened to the calls) and answered no 
when asked if shed  ever had or been  treated for such infections. Mrs F is accurate in saying 
that such conditions  are common in women,  but it doesnt mean  the question doesnt  have to 
be answered accurately.  CIGNA is entitled  to ask the question and equally entitled to expect 
an accurate answer.  The calls dont support Mrs Fs assertion  that CIGNA knew  and didnt 
record her answer.
The terms and conditions  of the policy exclude pre-existing  conditions from before the policy 
is first taken out. These  are defined as any disease, illness  or injury, or symptoms linked to 
such disease, illness or injury for which medical  advice or treatment has been sought or 
received; or the beneficiary knows  about and did not seek  medical  advice or treatment 
before the initial start date.  CIGNA  is able to impose a specific exclusion in such 
circumstances. 
While I appreciate Mrs F has supplied evidence of a friend with insurance  from CIGNA, each 
case is different and the medical evidence shows Mrs F was treated for several urinary tract 
infections in the period just before she took out the policy. I think its fair and reasonable for 
CIGNA to conclude that Mrs F did have a pre-existing condition affecting  her urinary  tract 
and bladder on the basis  of both the medical  evidence and Mrs Fs own account of the 
matter. I dont think its rejection of her claim is unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.
CIGNA has also provided evidence that if Mrs F had answered the question about  urinary  
tract infections accurately, it wouldve imposed the exclusion from the outset.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject  my decision before 
5 September 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5920935