K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that LeasePlan UK Limited  (LeasePlan) told her a final instalment  would  
not need to be made if she handed her car back. She is disappointed that hasnt proven to 
be the case.
background
Miss K took receipt of a car in October  2015.  She financed the deal through a three year hire 
agreement with LeasePlan which was due to end on 4 November 2018.
She called LeasePlan towards  the end of her agreement and asked them  what  would 
happen if she returned the car early. She says she was advised that no fees would apply 
and she therefore  returned the car at the start of October 2018. But Miss K was disappointed  
to find, after she returned the car, that LeasePlan were still asking for the last monthly  
payment.
LeasePlan explained that theyd meant that no early  termination charge would made but that 
the agent should have  explained that this would not stop the invoice for that months rental  
being due. They sent Miss K £50 of vouchers  in recognition of the fact they could have made  
things clearer, but they insisted that the last instalment was still payable.
Miss K therefore referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided her 
opinion. She asked LeasePlan for the call record of the conversation  Miss K had with them  
but LeasePlan could not locate it. So, in the absence of the call recording she considered the 
information she had. She noted that in LeasePlans response to Miss K they had referred to 
the call and that theyd explained the advisor  had told Miss K thered be no early termination  
charge if she returned the car within the last 30 days of the term of the contract. She also 
reviewed LeasePlans  contact notes in which theyd explained that the problem was that the 
advisor hadnt explained that the final finance instalment would need to be paid regardless 
and that, as that was collected  in advance,  Miss K would have already paid it by the time she 
returned her car to them.
She thought  thered probably  been some  miscommunication but she wasnt  persuaded 
thered been an agreement  to reduce the finance  instalments and she thought LeasePlans 
offer of vouchers to compensate Miss K for the lack of clarity was sufficient in the 
circumstances. She didnt think it would be reasonable  to ask LeasePlan to take any further  
action.
But Miss K disagreed.  She was upset that LeasePlan hadnt been able to provide the call 
record and she explained that they must  have had it at one point because  theyd referred  to 
it in an email theyd sent her. She said that if shed  known a final payment would have been 
taken she would have  kept the car until the end of the agreement as it would not have made 
sense to return it. She therefore  asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss K so please  let me 
explain why.
Ref: DRN53172072Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss K acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
My first consideration is the contract.  That says the hire period is for a minimum of 36 
months. There are no rights given to hand the car back  early  so theres no option  to reduce 
the sum due by handing the car back before the end of the term.
LeasePlan dont  have  the recording of the phone call anymore so Ive had to consider if its 
likely Miss K was told something  different than what was in the contract or whether thered 
been a miscommunication.
Im persuaded its likely that LeasePlan werent  clear  with their explanation  of what would 
happen when  the car was returned. I say that because I can see they emailed Miss K and 
referred to the call shed  had with them. They explained that they understood she was told 
thered be no early termination  charge  but that it hadnt  been explained that the invoice for 
the final months rental would still be due.
LeasePlans contact  notes also confirm  this as they say that what  was missed in the call was 
an explanation  about the final instalment  still being  due.
So, considering the evidence I have,  I dont think theres sufficient information to suggest 
that Miss K was promised shed not have to pay the last instalment.  That was always  due 
under the terms  of the agreement.
I think it is clear  that she may have left the call thinking the final instalment wasnt due and 
that could have been made clearer by LeasePlan. Theyve accepted this and I think  their 
offer of £50 in vouchers  is fair in the circumstances so Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317207