K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to her 
with a credit  card by Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds).  
background
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and was of the opinion that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this. Lloyds records show Miss B was sold the PPI after she took out her card, between 
1998 and 2000. First of all, there were rules  about  who could qualify for the policy  and based 
on her circumstances,  Miss B met those rules.  This means that she was eligible for the cover 
and could have  claimed on the policy if she needed  to.
Theres a very limited amount of information available  about this sale, but given that it took 
place a long time ago this isnt unusual. Miss B informed us that she wasnt  told about the 
PPI and also that she didnt need the policy but she was unable to recall much  detail in 
relation to the sale itself. Again given how much time has passed this is entirely 
understandable. 
Ive also considered the ways in which Lloyds could have sold the policy to Miss B. From 
what we know about the sale processes at around  the time,  Miss B would have been  given  a 
clear choice and would have been asked to actively choose the policy.  So based on all the 
available information,  Im not persuaded that its most likely that Lloyds failed to give Miss B 
a clear choice. So I wont be upholding her complaint on this basis.
Ref: DRN51372852Next, Ive looked at whether the policy was suitable  for Miss B. She told us that she was in 
secure employment and that she was entitled to redundancy pay. In addition,  if shed  been  
too ill to work, she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay and she was also entitled  to death in service benefit. She also had a car and 
savings. And she told us that her family would have helped her. But the policy would have 
paid out for longer than her sick pay and savings. The death in service benefit was a 
different type of benefit to that provided  under  the PPI policy, so there  was no duplication. 
And though  Im sure Miss Bs family would have wanted to help, that would have  depended  
on their particular circumstances  at the time so it wasnt guaranteed. So overall,  I think that 
the recommendation was suitable  for her. 
Finally, Lloyds was required to give Miss B information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so she could make the decision for herself about whether or not to take 
the policy. However, given her circumstances I dont think that Miss B would have been 
affected by the main  exclusions  and restrictions under the terms and conditions. And the 
cost of the policy was comparable  to the cost of other, similar policies available at the time. 
So on balance, I dont  think its likely that having better information would have dissuaded 
Miss B from taking out the PPI.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss B, but for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding her 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5137285