K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Admiral Insurance Company Limited hasnt properly investigated  a car accident 
he had and hasnt  reached a fair and reasonable conclusion about  liability  for the accident.
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  with a third party cyclist when he was parking his car in 
November 2018.  He notified Admiral  and got an estimate for repairs  from its approved  
repairers. In the end, though, Mr S paid for the repairs  himself.  So he hasnt made  a claim on 
his car insurance policy. And, so far, the cyclist hasnt made a claim on it either.
In December 2018 Admiral wrote  to Mr S saying it had reviewed the circumstances of the 
accident and would  be accepting responsibility for it. Mr S disagreed. He was unhappy  with 
how Admiral had investigated the accident;  in particular that it dissuaded  him from getting 
CCTV footage  which  he believes  couldve  shown  he wasnt at fault.
Admiral partially upheld Mr Ss complaint, saying it hadnt investigated  his complaint 
properly. It offered Mr S £50 in compensation for the inconvenience this caused him. But it 
still thought he was at fault for the accident.
After Mr S brought his complaint to us, Admiral  told us that it was treating his accident as an 
open incident. It said it would close the case a year from the date of the accident if no claim 
had been made by then. But it said the accident wouldnt be recorded as a notification only 
one because it was aware a third party had suffered an injury as a result  of it, which  it would 
treat as Mr Ss fault if a claim was ever made. It also said Mr Ss no claims  bonus  wouldnt 
be affected.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ss complaint  thought  Admiral  should close  Mr Ss 
complaint within  six months  of the date of the accident, assuming it hadnt received 
notification of a third party claim. And she said the accident should be reported as 
notification only at that point. She also thought  Admiral should pay Mr S an additional £50 
for the trouble and upset  it had caused him.
Admiral has agreed to pay the additional  £50 compensation  our investigator recommended.  
But it says it should  be able to keep the incident open for a year from the date it happened 
and shouldnt have  to record it as notification only. 
So Mr Ss complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Although Mr S notified Admiral of the incident,  ultimately, he didnt  make  a claim on his 
policy. So Admiral hasnt  had to pay anything out so far (apart from the £100 compensation 
its agreed to pay Mr S). If the third party  cyclist does make  a claim, that position may, of 
course, change.
Ref: DRN50915282In the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint, I think its fair and reasonable of Admiral  to treat 
the incident as open for six months  from the date it happened. But, after that date  and 
assuming it hasnt been notified of a claim in the meantime  it should close  its file and 
record the incident as closed on any internal and external databases (including the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE)). I say this especially bearing in mind Mr S describes the 
third party cyclist  who it seems cycled away from the incident  as having only minor 
injuries  and, also, theres no indication so far that the cyclist intends to make a claim.
Because hes paid for the car repairs himself, Mr S isnt going to make a claim on his policy 
and so Admiral isnt having  to pay out anything under  it (apart from the compensation Ive 
mentioned). Because  of this, the incident  should be recorded on any internal and external 
databases (including CUE) as an incident/notification only event. If the situation  
subsequently changes,  Mr Ss file can be re-opened and the relevant  records  can be 
amended to reflect the circumstances.
I think its right that, as things stand,  Mr Ss no claims discount (which  in any case  I 
understand is protected) is unaffected by the incident. And I think  its fair and reasonable for 
Admiral to pay Mr S  who has clearly suffered some distress and inconvenience  because of 
the way in which it has dealt with his accident  and complaint   an additional £50 in 
compensation.
Mr S should  be aware, though, that when he renews his car insurance  his premium may, 
nevertheless, be affected even if the incident is closed and recorded as notification only. 
But this will depend on his insurer. Different  insurers have different criteria that they use to 
calculate the premiums  they charge.
Finally, I know  Mr S is unhappy with Admirals  proposed position on liability  for the incident. 
He doesnt think  he should be held at fault.  Currently theres no claim on Mr Ss policy,  so 
theres no reason  for me to consider this. If there is a claim  in the future  for which Admiral 
admits liability,  and Mr S is unhappy  about  this, he can bring a new complaint to us.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Ss complaint  and direct  Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
Record Mr Ss accident as a closed incident/notification incident on all internal and 
external databases  (including CUE) from 20 May 2019, if it has not been  notified by 
then of any claims relating to the incident that happened on 20 November 2018.
Pay Mr S £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him 
(this is in addition to the £50 compensation I understand it has already paid him).
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its 
taken off. It should  also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN50915283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5091528