K820x#14complaint and background
Miss G says the loan Everyday Lending  Limited (ELL)  gave  her was unaffordable.
Miss G took out a 30-month instalment loan from ELL on 5 October 2017. It was for £3000 
and the monthly  repayments were £192.42.  The total repayable was £5772.60. I understand 
the loan remains  outstanding.
Miss G says taking into account her income, expenditure and financial history ELL should 
not have lent to her. It was irresponsible.
Our adjudicator found that the loan should  not have been given.  He said whilst  the checks  
ELL carried out were  proportionate, it didnt make  a fair lending  decision based on the 
information it gathered.  It should have seen Miss G wouldnt have enough  money to be able 
to make the loan repayments and so the loan was not sustainably affordable for Miss G.
ELL didnt  respond  to the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed  to me. I reached a 
different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision (an extract  follows 
and forms part of this final decision).  I asked  both parties to send  any further information or 
comments by 19 March  2021.
extract from my provisional decision
I can see ELL asked for some information  from Miss G before it approved the loan.  It 
asked for details of her income, how many  dependents  she had and copies of recent 
bank statements. It estimated her living costs  using the minimum value it uses in its 
affordability checks. It also checked  Miss Gs credit file to understand her existing 
monthly credit commitments  and credit history. And finally  it asked about the purpose of 
the loan which was to repay two payday loans, some of her credit card balance and to 
help with seasonal  costs. From these  checks combined ELL concluded Miss G had 
enough monthly disposable  income to afford to repay the loan.
I think the checks were proportionate and based  on the information it gathered,  I 
currently think ELL made a fair lending decision.  Our adjudicator  said based on Miss Gs 
bank statements ELL would have seen that her monthly expenses were  around £770. 
And from her credit file it knew that the monthly  repayments for the debt she wasnt 
clearing with this loan came to around  £198  a month. This means that Miss G would not 
have had sufficient  disposable income to sustainably make the loan repayments.  
However, I dont think this analysis is correct.  Miss G was taking out the loan to clear 
two of her payday loans  and some of her credit card balance. So, assuming her other 
living expenses remained consistent  with prior months  as shown on her bank  
statements, Miss Gs total monthly  expenses  would have  fallen to around £697, leaving 
her with disposable income of around £476. So I think the loan repayment of £192.42 
was affordable for Miss G. 
And I havent seen  anything on her credit file from the time of her application that 
suggests ELL should have been  concerned Miss G was having money problems and the 
loan might be sustainably  unaffordable. It showed  she was up-to-date  with all credit 
repayments. In addition, it seems Miss G was able to make a monthly transfer of £491  to 
a second account in her name.  On the copies of the bank statements I have seen there 
is hand-written note - I think from discussions ELL had with Miss G at the point of 
application - explaining this is a savings account.  This suggests  Miss G had some  
Ref: DRN52177942financial flexibility at the time and it seems,  if needed, an additional  source of money for 
her loan repayments. 
So, I currently think ELL made a fair lending decision using the information it gathered  
when it gave Miss G her loan. It follows I dont  think she has lost out as result  of ELLs 
decision.
In addition, I havent found  that ELL acted unfairly  or unreasonably  towards  Miss G in 
some other way. I know that her financial situation  changed but ELL accepted reduced 
repayments once  it was notified that Miss G was having financial difficulties and had 
entered into a debt management plan.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints  is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
As neither Miss G nor ELL submitted any additional  evidence or new comments  in response  
to my provisional decision it follows I have no reason  to change the findings or outcome I set 
out. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I am not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5217794