K821x#15complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with how a claim for an escape of water was handled by Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited (Lloyds)  under her home  insurance policy.
background
In February 2018,  Mrs W claimed  for water damage to her property and contents  following a 
radiator leak.  
Lloyds accepted the claim and appointed  various contractors to fix the damage. The repairs 
were finished in October 2018 and the carpet  was replaced in early  November  2018  this 
concluded the claim. 
However, during  this period Mrs W made Lloyds aware she was unhappy  with how the claim 
was being handled  in particular, the time it was taking to make progress with the repairs  
and a lack of communication. 
Lloyds accepted there had been  delays throughout  the claim. And it acknowledged the 
delays had an impact  on Mrs Ws health.  Lloyds also conceded that it hadnt kept Mrs W up 
to date during  the claim. It offered  £150  compensation  and £46 for phone  calls. Thats in 
addition to £50 compensation  it paid Mrs W earlier in the claim.  
Lloyds also agreed  to pay Mrs W £800 (£200 a week) for alternative accommodation. This 
was for the time Mrs W spent staying with neighbours. It also paid costs  for other  financial  
losses such as electricity,  logs for heating, washing towels etc.
Mrs W remained unhappy she didnt feel the compensation was fair, so she brought  her 
complaint to this service.  She said when Lloyds  first visited the property it gave her a cold air 
fan which didnt  assist with the drying  out of the property. It took several  weeks before she 
was given dehumidifiers. Because the leak also affected part of the kitchen, the tiles had to 
be removed. But Lloyds  found the tiles contained asbestos, so all the tiles had to be 
removed and to do that the base kitchen units had to be taken out. Mrs W says this was all 
happening at a time when  she was unwell and feels this contributed  to her health condition.  
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He initially suggested £1000  compensation because 
he thought the delay  in getting dehumidifiers had caused further damage in the kitchen and 
it therefore delayed  the overall claim by approximately 6 months. However, Lloyds were able 
to show that the damage to the kitchen was evident at the time of the first visit. Once this 
information was received,  our investigator  recommended that the compensation should  be 
reduced to £500  in total (an additional £300  to the £200 already paid out by Lloyds). Neither  
party accepted this so the complaint  has been  passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the financial losses on this complaint have now been  settled. So, the 
element outstanding and what Ill be considering  is how much  compensation should be 
awarded for the trouble  and upset caused,  as there  is no dispute that things couldve been 
handled better during the claim.
Ref: DRN54939212From what  Ive seen Mrs W reported the claim in February 2018. In April 2018 a cash  
settlement was agreed for Mrs W to use her own contractor. But Lloyds were responsible for 
the drying of the property and replacing  the carpets. The drying  certificate wasnt  issued until 
July 2018. 
Lloyds contractor visited in early March and left Mrs W with an air blower. I understand this 
is to help circulate the air to aid drying.  However, in this case  Mrs W reported to Lloyds that it 
was freezing in her home and the air blower wasnt helping as it was just circulating cold air. 
Its not clear when the central heating could  be used again after the radiator leak but once it 
was fixed, Mrs W said the air blower  kept cancelling  out the central heating, so she still only 
had cold air circulating. Ive taken into account  that with any property damaged by water, it 
will take time to dry out and remedial works cant be done until its dry. But in the 
circumstances of this complaint I dont see how an air blower circulating cold air alone would 
help the drying  process. 
Lloyds have agreed there were delays in getting  the dehumidifiers into the property and I 
think this did delay  the overall drying  process. It also put Mrs W in a very uncomfortable  
position, given  her age and health.   Her doctor  has said her living  conditions  were 
'completely unsuitable for her health'. I think Lloyds couldve  done  more to help in these 
early stages of the claim. Mrs W was living a cold, damp property for several weeks. So, I 
think its clear  that this situation went beyond mere inconvenience and caused her distress.
I understand Mrs W feels her current health problems - chemotherapy  for cancer was 
caused by the way Lloyds  handled  the claim.  This is because the cancer  returned  at the 
same time the claim was being handled.  So, I can see why she links the two together.  But I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  Lloyds caused Mrs Ws health condition.  Albeit  Im 
sure the handling  of the claim didnt help,  I cant say it was the cause of it. 
Ive looked at the report completed by one of Lloyds contractors. In February it noted the 
moisture in kitchen floor but said it hadnt  popped  or moved so the moisture  may be pulled 
out through the drying process. But as of May the report says the floor needed to be 
replaced. I cant say for sure if this wouldve happened or not. But I do think  it more likely 
than not that if there hadnt  been  the delay  in getting a dehumidifier into the property which  
pulls out moisture, the damage  mayve not got as bad as it did. 
Unfortunately, the flooring contained asbestos,  so the whole  floor had to be replaced. This 
meant that the base kitchen cupboards had to be removed for this to be done. It also meant 
Mrs W had to move out of her home.  That would be inconvenient for anybody, but I think it
was particularly difficult for her considering her circumstances. And it certainly wasnt right 
for Lloyds  to suggest  she move back before the kitchen was fully repaired.
The communication throughout the claim wasnt good I can see from Lloyds notes that there 
were several different companies  or contractors involved in this claim - and that Mrs W had 
mentioned several  times that she found this confusing and unhelpful.  Ultimately  Lloyds is 
responsible for all the companies involved and to make  sure the claim is handled  efficiently.
I can see Lloyds tried to address this by appointing a personal claims consultant, but 
unfortunately the initial problems with the lack and delay of dehumidifier had already 
happened. There were also latter problems with getting the kitchen installed back to pre-
incident condition.  
Ref: DRN54939213So overall, I think that Lloyds couldve handled this claim much better and due to Mrs Ws 
personal circumstances this claim has caused her trouble and upset.  I therefore  instruct 
Lloyds to pay Mrs W an additional  £300  in compensation making a total of £500.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  this complaint. I instruct  Lloyds Bank  General 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W and additional £300 compensation in addition to the £200 it 
has already paid making a total of £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5493921