K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about a number of issues relating to the termination  of his car finance  
agreement with Secure  Trust  Bank  Plc (Secure Trust).
background
In May 2015  Mr S took receipt of a car he financed through a five year hire purchase 
agreement with Secure  Trust.  The contract allowed him to voluntarily terminate (VT) his 
contract early if certain conditions were met. So, on 21 May 2018,  he contacted Secure Trust 
and told them thats what he wished to do. He has subsequently raised  several complaints; 
as follows:
delays
On 24 May Secure Trust contacted him to say the signature hed provided  on his termination  
request didnt match with the one they had on file. The issue  was resolved  during the call but 
Mr S says this caused unnecessary delay.
Mr S was told Secure Trusts agents would  collect  the car in the next 14 days but collection 
was delayed until 11 June  and Mr S says this was unnecessarily long. He says that they 
should pay him storage costs of £15 per day for the delay.
Secure Trust said the signature they had for Mr S was very different from the one hed used 
to sign the VT so they had to check it was authentic. They apologised for the delay in 
collection and understood that theyd not done  so in the 14 days theyd suggested but they 
noted it had been only 11 working days.
refurbishment charges
When Secure Trust collected  the vehicle they said there was some damage to the front seat 
which was beyond normal wear  and tear. So they sent Mr S an invoice for £150 to refurbish 
the seat in line with the terms and conditions of his contract that said the car should  be 
returned in a satisfactory condition. But Mr S disputed the charge. He said the inspection  
took place after the car had been  driven for more than four hours and it was several days  
later that the inspection  actually took place.
Secure Trust reviewed  the damage  that had been  reported and decided to waive  the £150 
charge.
harassment
Mr S also complains that Secure Trust harassed him for payment even though the debt was 
disputed and incorrect. He explains that at one point he received two calls before 9.15am. 
both about the same  issues.
Secure Trust noted  that following the first of these  calls the advisor  had told Mr S he would 
ensure the case  was put on hold until mid July to prevent  further contact. But they explained 
that the second call was initiated automatically and was made too soon for the initial agents 
actions to be recorded and acted on. They didnt think this amounted  to harassment.
Ref: DRN54853032credit file
Mr S complains that all this will have had a negative impact on his credit  file and Secure 
Trust has now reported information about non payment that must  be erroneous  as the 
amounts due, if any, are disputed.
Secure Trust explained  that they had reported  an overdue payment but they didnt  think 
theyd done anything wrong  in doing that as they explained the final instalment, Mr S had 
made on his agreement, had not been made  in full.
Mr S wasnt  happy with Secure Trusts response so he referred his complaint to this service 
and our investigator took a look at the evidence. He obtained a copy of the signatures 
Secure Trust had reviewed and agreed  they were very different so he thought they were  
right to check this with Mr S. He accepted  that thered been a delay in collecting  the car but 
he didnt think the delay was excessive or that Mr S had been  financially disadvantaged.  He 
noted that Secure Trust had now offered to remove the refurbishment charge so he didnt 
consider that in any detail and, for similar reasons to what  Secure Trust had explained, he 
didnt think their actions  had amounted to harassment.  He went  on to consider  the reports  
Secure Trust had made to Mr Ss credit file. He noted that the payment  made in May did not 
cover the complete balance so he thought the reporting Secure Trust had made had been  
correct. But he noted that they were prepared to remove it if Mr S settled  the outstanding bill 
and he thought this, along with the removal of the £150 refurbishment bill had been a fair 
and reasonable response to Mr Ss complaint. He therefore didnt think  Secure Trust needed 
to take any further  action.
But Mr S disagreed. He thought 14 days was a reasonable  timeframe in which to expect the 
car to have been  collected and he said Secure Trust contributed  to the delay because  they 
failed to instruct their collection agent  for a week. So he asked  for an ombudsman  to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S who obviously feels strongly about the issues  hes raised  but I 
dont think it would be reasonable to ask Secure Trust to take any further action here.  Please 
let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
delays
Id expect the car to have been  collected in a reasonable  time frame but I dont think  11 
working days is unreasonable.  The car shouldve been collected on a Friday  but was 
collected the next Monday  and whilst  I understand that would  have been  inconvenient for 
Ref: DRN54853033Mr S I dont think  it warrants  asking Secure Trust to pay for storage.
refurbishment charges
Its not unusual  for cars to be independently inspected a few days  after theyre collected or 
for the car to be driven some distance,  or taken some distance to auction.  But as the 
disputed charges have now been waived I wont consider them  any further.
harassment
I can understand that Secure Trusts advisor wouldnt have had time to register Mr Ss 
request to delay the process so I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest  Secure  Trust 
had harassed Mr S when  they made  the second  call within such a short  timeframe. It seems 
entirely feasible that the automated system would have lined up a call  albeit a frustrating  
one for Mr S.
There is an outstanding  sum due on the account which  I agree wasnt paid off, in full, in May 
2018 so I think  Secure Trust were within their rights to pursue payment.
credit file
I think there was a part payment missed and Secure  Trust were therefore within their rights 
to report it. But their offer to remove it if Mr S pays the outstanding balance  is a reasonable 
one and I dont  think any other action is necessary
other issues
I note that Mr S was also told that his complaint had been resolved when it hadnt. I see the 
investigator considered  this but I dont think Secure  Trust did in their final response.  For 
completeness however,  I would agree with the investigator here. Whilst it must certainly 
have been frustrating to be told his complaint was closed when it clearly hadnt  been 
resolved. I dont think this impacted on the investigation. Secure Trust still provided a 
response within the allowable timeframe of eight weeks.
Mr S has suggested that his rights have been  all but eroded. I can understand  that my 
decision, that the business has now done  enough and need take no further action, will be 
frustrating for him but he doesnt have  to accept it and he can pursue a complaint though the 
courts if he remains dissatisfied.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5485303