K820x#14complaint
Mrs As complaint is about a claim she made on her Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) legal
expenses insurance  policy.
For the avoidance of doubt all references  to IPA include their claims handlers.
background
Mrs As complaint is about a claim she made on her legal expenses  insurance policy for 
cover to pursue  a claim  for costs  associated with a flight  cancellation (breach of contract). 
IPA considered her claim and said there  was no cover  available for the event Mrs A wanted 
to claim for. It mentioned the date of the flight Mrs A was due to take in September 2015,  
was before her policy started in September 2016. It offered to reconsider  the matter  if Mrs A 
could show she had continuous legal expenses cover from another  provider. 
Mrs A provided evidence of her previous legal expenses  policies.  IPA considered  these but 
then said the policy wouldnt  provide  cover  as the breach - the cancelled flight, happened 
before the policy started.  It suggested she contact her previous legal expenses insurer to 
make a claim.   Mrs A was unhappy as she felt the policy  wording was unclear and 
confusing. Mrs A also said that there  may be causes of action arising  after the flight  delay 
but within IPAs  period  of cover.
Our investigator assessed Mrs As complaint and said he didnt think  it should be upheld. He 
said IPA was reasonable to decline the claim as the policy did not provide cover  for breach 
of contract  claims where the breach occurred before the start date of the policy. 
Mrs A doesnt agree,  she reiterated the policy wording is confusing and led her to believe 
she had the benefit of cover when she didnt. She says she thinks  she would be out of time 
to raise a claim with her previous legal  expenses insurer  and IPAs poor service has 
contributed to this. Mrs A asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
The matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs A wanted to claim for breach of contract. A flight she was meant to take was cancelled, 
which meant she incurred  additional  costs and was delayed in reaching her destination. 
Mrs A would also have been  entitled  to claim compensation from the airline.
The relevant  section of the policy term says:
What is insured:
Costs to pursue  a Legal Action following a breach of a contract You have for buying or 
renting goods  or services  for Your private  use. The contract must have been  made  after You 
first purchased this insurance unless You have held this or equivalent cover with Us or 
another insurer continuously from or before the date on which the agreement  was made.
Ref: DRN56969922What is not insured:
Claims:
a) Where the amount  in dispute is less than £125  plus VAT
b) Where the breach  of contract occurred before You purchased this insurance.
Ive considered the terms of Mrs As policy and Im satisfied this isnt an event Mrs A would 
be covered for. The policy does  provide  cover, where continuous cover has been in place, 
for any contract entered  into before the start date of the policy.  But, the breach of that 
contract would  have to take place within the period  of cover  provided by this policy.  
In this case Mrs A entered into the contract, and the contract was breached before this policy 
with IPA started.  Ive checked  Mrs As previous buildings  insurance policies, which  have 
legal expenses cover  included within them, and Im satisfied IPA wasnt the insurer  for the 
legal expenses section.  So, I dont think its acted unreasonably by relying on the exclusion  it 
has to decline the claim.  
Mrs A has suggested there  maybe  causes of action she could claim for that happened after 
the cancelled  flight, but within  IPAs period of cover. Mrs A hasnt made these claims to IPA 
so I wouldnt be able to say for certain  if this would  be the case. But would say in my 
experience, I would usually expect to see any losses/causes of action associated  with the 
original event to be covered within that claim.
Mrs A has said she thinks the policy wording is unclear and confusing. I dont  agree.  The 
exclusion that relates to her claim,  it not covering a contract breach which happens before 
the start date, is clearly  set out in the what is not insured section of the applicable policy 
term. 
When it initially declined the claim,  IPA did confuse  matters slightly  by asking Mrs A to 
provide evidence of continuous cover. But as soon as Mrs A provided this, it explained the 
correct reason why her claim should  be declined and suggested she contact  her previous 
insurer. There was delay  of about two weeks before IPA provided the correct  information, I 
dont think this would have prevented Mrs A from approaching her previous insurer  or that 
IPA should now be held responsible for any losses if Mrs A is now unable to make  a claim. 
Overall, I think IPA has declined the claim fairly and I wont  be asking it to do anything 
further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint against  Inter Partner 
Assistance SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Alison Gore 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5696992