K820x#14complaint
Mrs G, on behalf of the estate of Mr C, complains  that MBNA Limited increased Mr Cs credit 
card limit to an unaffordable level. 
background
Mrs G says Mr C passed away  in December  2018 and had not worked in many years.  She 
says the MBNA credit card account was opened  in 2005 and by 2018  had a credit limit of 
£14,600 which was inappropriate  when Mr Cs income was just over £10,000 a year. Mrs G 
says the interest  charged by MBNA was excessive and dealing with this issue has caused 
her and her family stress. She would like MBNA  to agree to a total repayment of about  
£2,500 for the total debt of about £9,000.
MBNA doesnt accept  making a mistake  and says it carried out appropriate checks  in 2005 
and from 2011  increased Mr Cs credit limit twice which he did not object to. It says it again  
carried out appropriate checks and Mr C made  regular monthly  repayments  and has no 
record of Mr C telling it he was in financial difficulties.  MBNA says Mr Cs age would not 
prevent lending.
Mrs G brought the complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained that we could  only look at the credit increases  and lending  within  the last six years  
which Mrs G accepted.  The investigator  thought MBNA had carried  out appropriate lending  
checks and Mr C could have rejected the credit limit increases. The investigator  also thought 
regular monthly repayments were  made  and that interest charges were  made  in line with the 
account terms and conditions.
Mrs G doesnt accept  that view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar  reasons. I realise Mrs G will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I have looked  at MBNAs records and can see that the initial  application in 2005  was 
appropriately checked and that Mr C had a relatively  high credit  score.  I can also see that 
the two latest  credit  limit increases were also appropriately checked and I think  Mr C could 
have rejected the increases if he wished.  So I dont think MBNA made a mistake  or acted 
unfairly be approving  the increases and I dont think it matters about  Mr Cs age.
I have looked  through  Mr Cs account  statements and can see that he regularly used  his 
credit card account for spending and made appropriate monthly repayments. So I think  
MBNA would  have considered how Mr C managed  his account before making those 
increases. I cant see any evidence that Mr C was in financial difficulties or that he made 
MBNA aware of such difficulties. I would have expected some evidence  of such  contact or 
missed payments for example if Mr C was in financial difficulty. So I think  on balance  that it 
likely that Mr C was not in such financial difficulty and was able to manage the account as he 
wanted.
I have looked  at the account terms and conditions which  I think Mr C would have agreed to 
when the account was opened which deal with interest and charges.  I appreciate Mrs G says 
Ref: DRN59234082they are excessive. But I have not seen any evidence that they were  not correctly  applied in 
line with those terms and conditions and so I cant fairly order MBNA refund them.
Overall Im satisfied that MBNA has not acted unfairly or made a mistake in increasing Mr 
Cs credit  limit. So I cant fairly order it to agree to Mrs Gs proposal  for the repayment  of the 
debt. I appreciate that Mrs G says this matter has caused her and her family stress.  But I 
make clear  that is not something I can consider in this complaint as the complainant  here is 
the estate of Mr C and not Mrs G or her family
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G on behalf of 
the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5923408