K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains the car he acquired with finance  from Startline  Motor  Finance Limited wasnt
of satisfactory quality.
background
In April 2017 Mr M acquired a car with the benefit  of a hire purchase  agreement from 
Startline. At the point  of sale the car was four years  old and had done just over 44,000 miles. 
Mr M says the car went wrong within the first two weeks and in May the engine  was 
replaced. But Mr M says even after this, the engine management light (EML) continued to 
show on the dashboard. Then in July he noted further problems with excessive vibration and 
something hanging down from the car.
The dealership couldnt find a problem  so in October  he took the car to another  garage.  This 
noted that three of the driveshaft bolts were  missing and the driveshaft needed replacing. 
The repair was carried out by the dealership.
Mr M however says the engine management light is still coming on at times as shown in the 
photos hes sent in. He doesnt agree the problems been  resolved and hed now like 
Startline to replace  the car or allow him to reject it.
Startline said the car had had a new MOT and service shortly before sale but no similar 
problems were found. It agreed  M had had a number  of problems with the car but said these 
had been repaired  and the independent  report in June 2018  hadnt found any ongoing  faults 
with the engine. And it noted the photos  sent in by Mr M didnt show when theyd been taken 
or that they were of Mr Ms car. In the circumstances it didnt agree the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale and rejected this complaint.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint. She came to the view there  was a link between  
the current EML problem and the previous faults with the engine. She felt it was probable 
this was a failed repair. For that reason  she didnt  think the car had been of satisfactory  
quality at the point of sale and that Mr M should now be allowed to reject it or have it 
replaced. As Startline  had said it couldnt find a replacement car she recommended it:
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay,
collect the car at no further cost to the consumer,
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement,
remove any adverse credit information  on Mr Ms credit file,
pay £100 for the inconvenience of going  back and forth to the garage and for the 
impaired use of driving the car with the engine light on,
refund  two months payment  for when the car was in garage.
Startline disagreed and said the independent  inspection and the dealership hadnt been  able 
to find a fault with the car. It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Mr M had acquired the car with the benefit of a hire purchase agreement  with Startline. As 
the provider of the car  and the finance - Startline was also responsible  for a complaint 
about its quality.  That is what a reasonable person would  consider to be satisfactory taking 
all reasonable circumstances into account, which in the case of a car includes its age, 
mileage and history. But there are limits  to that responsibility and in particular that any faults, 
Ref: DRN53707092that make  the car of unsatisfactory quality,  should be present  or developing at the point of 
sale.
In this case Mr Ms car was approximately 4 years old at the point of sale and had done just 
over 44,000 miles. It might be expected that car of this age and mileage would show  some  
signs of wear and tear but in this case the problems had been more  serious. In May, only a 
few weeks after hed first acquired it, the engine had to be replaced. This was followed in 
July by further problems relating to excessive  vibration and a few months after that the 
driveshaft had had to be replaced. 
And although the car had had a service and new MOT shortly before sale,  the problems  had 
begun within a few weeks of Mr M acquiring the car. In particular the engine  had had to be 
replaced and as there was nothing to show any other event that could have  caused  this 
problem, it seemed more  probable this fault had been present or developing at the point  of 
sale. This had been followed by further problems with the driveshaft and what appeared to 
have been a failed earlier repair that may have caused the later problem.
In the circumstances I felt the problems went beyond reasonable wear and tear and that the 
car had not been of satisfactory quality.
However the independent report of 4 June 2018  hadnt found any ongoing  issues  with the 
engine or the engine  management warning light as reported by Mr M. The dealership had 
also reported no problem  with the warning  light when  it replaced the driveshaft in October 
2017 so while Mr M felt the car was still faulty I had nothing to show  that was the case. 
I could also see that by the time of the independent  report Mr M had done 14,566  miles in 
the car so it was fair to say that hed been  able to make reasonable use of the car despite 
whats happened. And it seemed it was now running as it should.
For that reason  I didnt  think it was fair or reasonable at this point to ask Startline to cancel  
the agreement  or to replace the car. Having said that it was clear  Mr M had had a lot of 
problems with this car and it was only reasonable Startline should  compensate  him for the 
inconvenience and concern this had caused. In view of the number and nature of the 
problems I recommended £500. In addition as Mr M had been without his car for two months 
in total while  repairs  and investigations were  being  carried out. I proposed  Startline should 
also refund  him his payments  for May and October 2017 to cover this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres no information  on any 
particular point, or the information available is disputed, as it is here on some points, Ive 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words  whats  more  likely than not 
to have happened.
I set out my views and reasons in my earlier provisional decision. Theres been no new 
information from Mr M or Startline and I remain of the view that the remedy  in my provisional 
decision is both fair and reasonable. While theres information to show  this car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale, the independent report  didnt find any ongoing 
problems and on that basis, it seems the repairs carried out in 2017 were effective.
Ref: DRN53707093I dont underestimate  the impact  of what happened on Mr M. Its clear it caused him a lot of 
inconvenience and trouble over several  months while the problems were  ongoing.  For that 
reason its only fair that Mr M should be compensated  for this as well as compensation for 
the time he was without  the use of his car. But as the car is now running as it should, I dont 
think it reasonable to ask Startline to cancel the agreement  or replace the car.
In the circumstances I can see no reason why my original decision should not stand.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Startline Motor  Finance 
Limited:
a)to pay Mr M £500 for his distress and inconvenience and 
b)to refund him his payments for May and October 2017 together  with simple interest at 
the rate of 8% per year, the interest  to run from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5370709