K822xcomplaint
Mr L has complained  about  Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited. Hes unhappy  that Aviva  
doesnt send his annual statements on time and because lifestyling was applied to his plan 
even though he opted out. He also says that Aviva isnt transparent  in disclosing the annual 
management charges  on his policy.
background 
Mr L has held a pension  plan with Aviva since 2009.  His funds  were  invested in a mixed 
fund. In 2013, Aviva wrote  to him to say that the policy  had an option called lifestyling. This 
meant that over the next five years Aviva would move his existing investments into funds 
which were less susceptible to stock market movements.  Aviva proposed moving  the funds 
to a deposit fund and a gilt fund.
Mr L decided to opt out of the lifestyling  option  and Aviva wrote to confirm  that lifestyling  
would not be applied to his policy. However,  Aviva acting in error, did apply lifestyling. 
Mr L received his annual statements in 2016  and 2017, and after making further enquiries he 
was also sent a breakdown of charges. 
In June 2018 Mr L noticed that the Aviva mixed fund was no longer featured  in his pension 
plan. He contacted Aviva to ask about this. Aviva confirmed that his funds were invested in 
the gilt and deposit funds.  
Then later, Aviva said that due to a system error  lifestyling had been applied to Mr Ls 
despite him opting out. It said that it would arrange for the policy  to be amended.
Aviva upheld Mr Ls complaint and offered  £75 towards the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr L didnt accept and brought the complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators looked 
into the complaint.  She noted  that Aviva had made  an error  but it had apologised for it and 
taken steps to put it right. The adjudicator was provided with evidence  of the backdating of 
the fund switch and she was satisfied  that Mr L was put back  in the position he would have 
been in had the lifestyling  option not been  applied. 
The adjudicator said that Aviva  had changed  the format  of producing  statements  in 2010.         
Mr L had been  advised of this and was given reasons  for the change. The adjudicator was 
satisfied that whilst the charges shown on the annual statements were  not as detailed as 
Mr L wanted, he was sent further  details when he had requested  them.
The adjudicator also said that whilst Aviva had not sent the annual statements in the 
anniversary month of the policy,  May, these were sent annually  and also information  was 
sent to Mr L separately  as and when requested. 
Lastly, the adjudicator considered the payment of £75 towards  the trouble and upset caused 
by Avivas error of opting Mr L out of lifestyling. She thought this was in line with what she 
would have recommended.  
Subsequently, Mr L wrote  to Aviva and raised further points. He enquired about the change 
of investment fund in 2012 and the difference in the unit holdings quoted in the statements of 
21 May 2013 and 23 May 2013. 
Ref: DRN52796132Aviva were  able to confirm that the fund had a change of name  in April 2012 and that Mr L 
had been written to at that time with this information. It had also been confirmed in a call on 
28 June 2012.  
Aviva also said that there was a fault in their systems at the time which led to incorrect unit 
holdings being  quoted  in the statements from May 2013. But this had been corrected. The 
adjudicator had noted that the employer contributions had ceased in March  2011 and as 
there were no further personal contributions there  wouldnt have been any increase in the 
unit holdings. The statement of June 2011 had recorded the unit holdings  as 686 units  and 
therefore she was satisfied that the unit holdings in the 21 May 2013  statements were 
correct. 
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators findings  and the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator. I dont uphold this complaint. Thats  because  although Aviva 
made an error it has taken steps  to put things right. It has put Mr L into the position he would 
have been in had the error not occurred.
There is very little that I can add to what the adjudicator  has already said. It is clear  that 
Aviva made a mistake. Mr Ls funds should not have  been moved to lifestyling. But once it 
became aware  of the error it quickly took steps to put it right. The error can be corrected 
accurately and so Im satisfied that Mr L has not lost out.
I can understand that the error will have caused Mr L some frustration and upset. There  has 
also been a degree of inconvenience. But, as Ive said, the error was corrected quickly  and 
an apology was given.  I think  the offer of £75 is fair in the particular  circumstances of this 
case.
Mr L has also said there is a lack or transparency about charges made. But Im satisfied that 
there was a change  in the format of the annual statements rather  than any deliberate  
attempt to withhold information about charges. And Aviva has provided  a more detailed  
breakdown of charges as and when  requested.    
Although this didnt  form part of the original complaint,  Aviva  has explained that there was a 
fault in their systems which led to inconsistency of the unit holdings quoted in the 2013 
statements. But this was corrected and Im satisfied that Mr L hasnt  lost out. The correct unit 
holding has been  applied.
So for these reasons Im not upholding this complaint. Aviva made an error but it has been 
put right and I think the offer of £75 is fair in these particular circumstances. 
Ref: DRN52796133my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Aviva should  pay Mr L £75 if it hasnt already done so. But I 
make no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5279613