K820x#14complaint
Ms Ws complaint concerns the way that Society of Lloyds dealt with her home insurance 
claim for water damage to her home. Some of the contact  was with a claims handling  
company, the contractors,  the loss adjuster or directly with Lloyds. As it had overall  
responsibility for the matter for convenience  (unless  otherwise stated)  I shall refer to Lloyds 
throughout
background
On 21 April 2018 Ms W suffered an escape  of water  at her property from a header tank in an 
upstairs airing cupboard. It affected the adjacent bedroom and the kitchen, landing  and 
stairs. She reported  a claim, initially under  the home  emergency cover, on the Saturday and 
then on the following Monday to Lloyds under the buildings/contents cover. She explained 
that she has two young  children who are disabled, with special needs. Her mother also 
regularly came to help with the children. On the Monday she was offered immediate 
alternative accommodation in the form of a let property but the two properties found for her 
werent suitable. She tried to find such accommodation herself but ultimately  elected  to stay 
in the property with Lloyds paying  her a daily disturbance  allowance  (to cover any extra  
costs incurred) being paid while  the kitchen was out of action.
Lloyds instructed contractors to arrange  the drying and the strip out woks.  The property was 
left unsanitised  for several weeks, which Ms W says caused the family to suffer stomach 
upsets. They  were  offered  respite  stays in hotel  accommodation. On returning  on one 
occasion the dehumidifier had broken down, causing damp  air to circulate around the 
property.
Ms W found the contractors to be too slow. She also had issues  with the arrangements  for 
storage of her furniture  and other items,  the contractors failing to arrive on one occasion, 
then not being told of the full extent of the removal necessary.  Because  of the issues  Ms W 
had with the way the claim was managed, Lloyds decided to remove the claims handlers 
from the job in late May 2018, and the contractors were stood down. It was then agreed  that 
Lloyds would pay a cash settlement to Ms W so that she could instruct her own contractors 
to carry out the repairs. She obtained estimates  from local builders and negotiated a cash 
payment from Lloyds. She was paid a £23,500 advance payment  by bank transfer on 
11 July and received  further payments as matters progressed up until October 2018.
There were two issues that Lloyds wouldnt pay for, the first concerned  the floor in the 
bedroom. The flooring needed  replacing, which Lloyds agreed  to. However it was noted that 
the floor had dropped. Ms W employed a structural engineer who advised that this had 
nothing to do with the escape  of water but was a pre-existing defect. It was anticipated that 
new floor joists and two steel beams  (RSJ) would be needed. As it transpired no new joists  
were required  and just one RSJ, at a cost of £800.  Lloyds declined  to pay for this as it 
wasnt connected with the escape  of water but reached agreement  with Ms W over the cost 
of the flooring.
Ms W also wanted payment for the lifting and replacement of the patio stones and their 
foundations, she said these had been damaged  and made  uneven  by the escape of water.  
Lloyds didnt accept  this, but conceded  that the footfall of the contractors may have made 
some of the stones uneven. It was willing to pay for the stones to be uplifted  and rebedded 
and if any were damaged  in the process it would consider payment for those. 
Ref: DRN51559882Ms W complained about the way the claim was handled, particularly the situation in which  
she and her family were  left. She had to constantly contact Lloyds to progress matters. She 
complained of delays in payment of her disturbance allowance and hotel bills. She also 
complained that she had had to accept a lower quality kitchen than she had before.
Lloyds agreed  that the service provided hadnt  been  of the standard Ms W was entitled to 
expect, and paid her £750 compensation.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Lloyds should increase its 
compensation. Additionally, he felt the patio was directly affected by the escape of water,  so 
he said Lloyds should pay for reinstating it. With regard to the steel beam  our investigator 
said it wouldnt have been necessary  to install this if the escape of water  hadnt occurred, so 
Lloyds should  pay for this.
Lloyds didnt agree,  it considered its payments of compensation and those made  to settle  
the claim were fair.
Ms W accepted our investigators  view but in respect of Lloyds response said that she no 
longer accepted the figure paid for the replacement kitchen, inferior  to the one she had 
before.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought Lloyds offer of compensation was 
reasonable. And that I didnt think it needed  to take any further action concerning  the patio or 
the bedroom.
Ms W confirmed that she had no further  comments to make,  as did Lloyds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
alternative accommodation
Ms W had specific needs for her accommodation,  particularly for her children. Her mother 
lived nearby and was needed to help with the children. The accommodation  also needed to 
be accessible for their schools. Lloyds instructed an accommodation agency  which provided 
details of two properties  which Ms W rejected as not suitable. They found a further property 
which Ms W didnt  respond to. She asked them to look into another  property but the landlord 
was looking for a long term let. After that it appears  it was left up to Ms W to find 
accommodation which she was unable to do. So she decided to stay in the property with her 
family and Lloyds paid her a daily disturbance allowance. From time to time Lloyds agreed 
to pay for her to stay in a hotel she had found  with the appropriate facilities but this was 
50 miles away. It also paid £1,610 towards  a summer holiday.
I know it was difficult  for Ms W to stay in the house, particularly as the children shouldnt 
have been exposed to dirt and dust.  But I have to look at this from the point of view of what  
could have been done under the terms of the policy  whilst recognising Ms Ws particular 
circumstances. I think, given the area where  Ms W lived and her particular needs, its 
unlikely that a let property  suitable  for her was available. And it appears that there were  no 
Ref: DRN51559883local hotels that were suitable, the only one being some distance  away  which could only be 
used for respite  stays  from time to time.  The only alternative in such circumstances was to 
have her live in the home with facilities for meal  preparation set up in a dining room, and pay 
a disturbance allowance.
This was a serious  escape of water  which was always going to cause a great deal of 
inconvenience. But I can only award  compensation for the extra inconvenience that Ms W 
suffered because of failings by Lloyds in the way her claim was handled. I also have to take 
into account that at the end of the day she was the person best placed to decide whether  
she and her family should stay in the home  (with all of the inconvenience that entailed) or 
move to a let property  which wouldnt have been suitable for various reasons (and thereby 
suffer the inconvenience associated with that). 
That said its clear that due to the open  plan nature of the property it wasnt  easy  to shelter  
the family  from the dirt and dust.  And I do think that the question of sanitising the property 
should have been addressed earlier. Ms W says the family all suffered stomach upsets 
because of this. Instead it was decided that it was unsafe to carry out strip out while  the 
family was there and in my view Lloyds waited too long to decide  that the family would have 
to be placed in a hotel  while strip out and sanitisation  took place. I take that into account.
delays, poor communication
Ms W has given us details of the delays and miscommunications which occurred, including 
the removers not turning up then not knowing in advance of the full extent of the removal 
needed, The contractor  also failed to turn up on occasions. Ms W estimates that she sent 
over 300 emails to the various parties. I agree, and Lloyds accepts, that the service  
provided was less than desirable. And the delay caused the family  to be in the damp  and 
damaged home for longer than should  have been necessary, especially considering their 
circumstances. Ive also taken into account  that the dehumidifier  pipe had come off whilst 
Ms W and her family  were  staying in a hotel,  causing damp air to circulate through  the 
house.
Ive also taken into account how long Ms W was in this position.  The claim was reported on 
21 April 2018. By late May 2018, the contractors  had been stood down. There  then followed 
a period of negotiating over the cash settlement. Lloyds  paid a large  sum in advance on 
11 July, enabling  Ms W to start the works. She continued to receive disturbance allowance 
payments as necessary. Whilst she complains of a delay  in receiving these I dont think  
there were any unnecessary avoidable delays. And I dont  think there were any delays on 
Lloyds part in agreeing the settlement. Im aware that there were  issues  it wouldnt pay for, 
which Ill deal with below.
As for the cash settlement, insurers always have the option  of offering a cash settlement. 
They dont have  to carry out the repairs although  in some cases, depending on the nature  of 
the claim and the consumer, it might not be reasonable for an insurer  to offer a cash 
settlement. And whilst I understand that Ms W might have preferred initially to have Lloyds 
contractors do the work,  it appears  clear from the files that once the claim had progressed,  
she wasnt prepared to have them  carry  out the repairs because  of the way theyd handled 
the drying and strip out works. In this case I think the cash option  was assessed as being 
best for Ms W and she readily accepted that. She had local trusted contractors  who could do 
the work.
compensation 
Ref: DRN51559884My overall view, and I understand that this will be disappointing for Ms W, is that I think the 
payment of compensation of £750 by Lloyds is fair and reasonable. Its in line with the sort 
of awards we have  made in similar  cases. And if no compensation had been paid by Lloyds  
I would have had in mind to award  £750.  Therefore,  I dont intend to make  it pay anything  
more.
floor repairs
When the bedroom flooring was stripped out, it was discovered that the floor had dropped. 
Ms W employed a structural engineer to advise, and Lloyds paid her fees. She advised that 
there was a pre-existing defect to the floor which was unconnected with the escape  of water. 
Whilst Ms W believes the water aggravated the problem, this is the sort of technical issue  
where we have to look at the expert advice. As the advice from the structural  engineer  is that 
the defect isnt connected to the escape of water, I have to accept that.
I fully understand  that the floor may have  been  in that situation for years and that Ms Ws 
contractor may have been unable to lay the new flooring without having the defect  corrected. 
But I regard this as being a maintenance issue. Because of the age of the house and the 
way the floor was originally constructed it had dropped. I think it reasonable to say that Ms W 
should pay for the RSJ to correct it, so that the repairs could go ahead. I think that Lloyds 
acted fairly  when it said it wouldnt pay for an issue unconnected with the escape of water.  
Therefore, Im not going  to make it pay for this now.
patio
As I understand it, Ms W says the patio stones were loosened, and the foundations washed  
away because of the escape  of water. But reading through all the documents  I cant  see that 
this was ever accepted  by Lloyds. But it did concede that the patio may have been affected 
by the foot traffic of the contractors coming  in and out. So it was prepared to pay for the patio 
stones to be taken  up and rebedded. It allowed for that in its cash settlement.
Ms W says that this wasnt enough for her to carry out the repairs and shes  been  unable to 
afford to have them done. She says that the foundations  needed to be dug up and replaced.  
Also her contractor says the stones will need  to be broken up and replaced.
As I understand it, Ms W accepted a settlement for the patio  based  on the work that Lloyds 
assessed was needed. I havent  seen evidence to back up Ms Ws assertion that the 
foundations needed replacing or that they were  affected by the escape of water. Lloyds 
settlement which  will pay for the taking  up and rebedding of the stones seems to me to be 
adequate. It has already  confirmed that, if in digging up the stones any break,  it would be 
prepared to consider  paying for their replacement. While it might  be easier to break up the 
stones to get them out, I dont accept that that would be necessary.
As matters currently stand, I dont propose to make  any award in respect of the patio.
kitchen
Ms W says she isnt now satisfied with the payment  for the kitchen, although she accepted it 
at the time. She accepted a kitchen valued at £16,000 when Lloyds original schedule 
allowed £19,000 for this. She says she had to accept a lower  quality kitchen because she 
would have had to wait another eight weeks to get her preferred kitchen. As this was on top 
Ref: DRN51559885of the six months  she felt shed already had to wait for a new kitchen, this was unacceptable 
to her. She believes  Lloyds should pay her the balance. Strictly she hasnt raised it with 
Lloyds as a part of her complaint but it makes sense for both parties that I deal with this 
here.
The decision  to offer a cash  settlement was put to Ms W by mid-June 2018. Ms W was able 
to get quotes and to get a builder to start repairs by 20 July. As Ive said cash  settlement  
was an option  Lloyds could choose to take.  Ive taken  account of any delays in reaching that 
stage above. I cant  say that that led directly to Ms W having to accept the lower  cost 
kitchen. In any event  she made an informed decision  to accept the cash  payment and has 
had the kitchen installed. The fact that she didnt want  to wait a further eight weeks, though  
understandable isnt Lloyds fault. And an eight week wait for a new kitchen is by no means  
unusual. I dont propose to make  Lloyds pay anything to Ms W in this respect. 
As nether party has made any comments on those findings I remain persuaded by them.  My 
provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5155988