K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about the investment hub he opened with Santander UK Plc. 
Hes unhappy that Santander, without his authority,  unnecessarily opened a cash account. In 
doing so it acted improperly.
background
On 17 March 2017, Mr N opened a Santander Investment Hub account and invested £100 
into the Seven Investment Adventurous Fund.  
He then tried to set up a monthly direct  debit  to pay in £20 a month  but in December 
2017 noticed that it wasnt set up.    
Santander corrected  the error so the direct debit would start from January 2018, and paid Mr 
N £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Santander also offered to backdate 
the price of the fund for the missed direct  debit payments from June  2017  to February 2018 
if Mr N still wanted to invest the £180 that hadnt been invested.
In May 2018  Mr N requested a copy of the call recordings he had with Santander, and in due 
course he was provided with a CD containing  26 calls. Unfortunately,  Mr N couldnt  listen  to 
the calls. Santander said it would provide the calls on a USB stick and paid Mr N £50 
compensation for the time it took to respond. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said;
Although Mr N says the cash account is unnecessary,  Santander  has made clear that 
a cash account  is compulsory as its used to take the platform fee. It said 
oWhen we open a Hub Account for you well also automatically  open a Cash  
Only Account. The main  purpose  of this account  is to pay the Platform  
Service Fee. 
Mr Ns direct debit  is paid in as cash into his investment account and its immediately 
used to purchase units in the fund, and this is shown in the statements in the fund. 
Although it may not be clear, its possible to hold cash  in the investment account  as 
well as investments. So the credit  sitting in Mr Ns cash  account  is being  used to pay 
the platform fees (which  are modest  compared  to the size of the holdings) in line with 
the terms and conditions. 
If the cash account balance reduces  and there  isnt enough to pay the fees  units 
will be sold to pay the fees. 
Although Mr N has found dealing with Santander  frustrating,  it has dealt with him 
fairly. The £150 paid for the trouble and upset  caused is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In 
summary he says:
There are continuing  issues since the compensation  was paid.
He doesnt  feel the letter Santander sent on payments has been looked  at properly.
He never  received  any information about a cash account being  opened.  There  are 
three parts to these accounts and he only agreed to one part being opened.
Ref: DRN57773662The cash  account was opened  well after his investment account was opened and 
Santander was taking fees from his account  without  issue. He doesnt feel a cash 
account was therefore necessary. Santander  has a process  by which  it takes out 
fees and has been doing so for the past year.
Hes requested a copy  of all the documentation our service has received from 
Santander. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
Santander confirmed  that Mr N signed  up online on 20 March 2019.  Thereafter 
Santander sent out a registration form for signing by Mr N and to confirm  that he 
requested the hub account. Its records show he signed the form on 27 March 2017.   
Santander also confirmed using an example of Mr Ns hub statement the following:
oThree components to the hub. 
oThe cash  only accounted  denoted with 001 which suggests it was opened  
first.
oThe investment  account denoted  002 which suggest that it was opened 
second.
oInvestment account as 003 suggests it was opened third.
oThe transactions show that on 16 April 2017,  £100 was initially paid into the 
investment account as cash  and invested  in units on 20 April 2017.  
oAll fees  highlighted in yellow were taken from the cash only account.
oOn 8 May 2017, when the first fee of £0.01 was due, units were sold to that 
value on 3 May 2017 from the investment account and the proceeds 
transferred to the cash only account  the same day. The next fee on 10 
November 2017 was dealt with in the same way.  
oOn 1 March 2018, Mr N then paid £20 into the cash only account, these funds 
were never invested, so his subsequent fees have all come from the cash  
only account.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr N says, I dont think  
Santander has behaved unreasonably. 
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Ns frustration and 
strength of feeling  about this matter.  Im also sorry to learn of Mr Ns recent ill health. 
Mr N has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
Ref: DRN57773663The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr N and Santander,  and reach what I think is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information  
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr N says, Im satisfied that the 
setup of the cash account was necessary. In other  words,  it was as Santander has made  
clear compulsory and not something that Santander could do without.
I appreciate Mr N says its not something  that he specifically agreed to, but I dont think  he 
had to, in order  for Santander to set up the cash account.  On the contrary, I think it was 
triggered following  his signing up online and forthcoming registration.  Im also mindful the 
cash account was denoted with the numbers 001 which  would also suggest, despite what  
Mr A says,  that it was the first account to be set up.
I appreciate Mr N maintains that the cash account  wasnt necessary, and that Santander had 
been taking fees without  it, therefore there was no need for it. But based on what  Santander 
has said  as set out in the background  I think Mr Ns analysis is wrong. 
What Mr N refers  to is more like a temporary  default  measure. Because  there were 
insufficient funds  in the cash account  between May 2017 and November 2017  the fees 
(albeit nominal)  had to be deducted from the investment. I think  having  a cash  account 
means that the fees can be paid separately without impacting on Mr Ns investment, 
especially if theyre likely to be higher in future  as the investment grows.   
And I understand that on 1 March  2018, Mr Ns £20 was paid into the cash only account, so 
his subsequent fees would come out from there  rather  than his investment. Im unable to say 
theres anything wrong with that.
I understand that this may be the same money  Mr N says was paid into the cash  account by 
Santander in error  and hed like the money  to be paid into his investment account.  I 
understand that Santander is unable to transfer any amount thats  less than £100 so 
suggested that he use part of his compensation money to top-up the sum and successfully 
transfer the money. I understand Mr N feels  he shouldnt have to use his compensation 
money for this and I think  hes right, he doesnt  have to. But I dont think  Santander  was 
wrong to suggest  it. Mr N could use other funds to top up the money and transfer it.  
Im mindful of the history of this complaint  and the issues Mr N had setting up the direct 
debit, and the subsequent  issues with Santander  providing the call recordings  in a format  
that Mr N could listen to. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, for the record  I think  
Santanders offer to pay £150 compensation for the trouble,  plus the missed interest (if he 
wanted to invest  the £180) is broadly fair and reasonable. I also understand the direct  debit 
issues have also been rectified. 
I appreciate Mr N will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold  the complaint and give him what  
he wants.
Ref: DRN57773664my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5777366