K820x#14complaint
Mr P complained to Suffolk Life Pension Limited after it switched his self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) to a different product. He says it did this without his permission.  Hes also 
unhappy because  he says Suffolk Life altered his retirement age on the application  form 
from 66 to 68. 
Mr P and his wife both hold SIPPs  and have made the same complaint about  the 
plans being switched. But because they hold individual plans, the complaints are being dealt 
with separately.  
background
In March 2016, on the advice of a financial adviser   from here on referred to as Firm D  
Mr P started a Suffolk Life SimSIPP. However  in June  2016, this was switched  to a 
SmartSIPP. Although  the underlying product is the same, these SIPPs  have different 
investment options.  
Mr P didnt notice the switch at the time but in early 2019, it came to his attention.  Mr P 
contacted Firm D but was unable to get confirmation in writing  as to why the switch had 
happened so he complained to Suffolk Life. 
Mr P said he was unhappy because Suffolk Lifes agent hadnt given any explanation as to 
why the product switch needed  to happen.  And to date, hes not received any advice 
regarding investments. So his funds are sitting in cash but Suffolk  Life had continued to take 
its fees. Mr P said hed like a refund of the fees taken, including  those incurred  as a result  of 
the product switch.  
Mr P also complained because he said his retirement  age had been  altered  on the 
application form from 66 to 68.
Suffolk Life reviewed the complaint but it didnt think it had done anything  wrong.  It explained 
that the switch  was completed after it received a product conversion form from Firm D, 
signed by Mr P. At this point the new fee structure  came into effect and a letter was issued to 
Mr P to confirm the switch. This letter also explained  that he had 30 days to change  his 
mind. 
Although the products are similar,  Suffolk  Life acknowledged that there was potential for the 
fees to be higher on the SmartSIPP.  But as Suffolk  Life had carried out the instructions 
received from Mr Ps authorised adviser, it didnt agree that it had deducted fees when it 
shouldnt have done. It also explained that Mr P could switch  the SIPP back if he wished. In 
terms of the retirement  date, Suffolk  Life explained  that this is merely an indicative figure.  
Mr P didnt accept what Suffolk Life said so he referred his complaint to this service for 
review. In summary he said that Suffolk  Life should take responsibility for the actions of 
Firm D as he believed  it was acting as its agent  when  the SIPP was switched and hes not 
been given any explanation as to why this happened. 
One of our investigators  reviewed matters but he didnt think Suffolk  Life had done anything 
wrong. In summary  he didnt agree  that Firm D was acting as Suffolk  Lifes agent. And he 
didnt think it could  be held responsible  for the actions of the independent financial adviser. 
Ref: DRN51641072So he felt that any complaint Mr P had about  the SIPP switch would be best dealt with by 
Firm D.  
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators finding  so the matter  had been passed to me to 
reach a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. 
Mr P believes that Suffolk Life is responsible for the actions of Firm P. But thats  not the 
case. There are different  types of advisers,  some of which are working for the company 
whose products they sell. But in this case, Firm P was acting as an independent financial 
adviser (IFA) so was essentially acting for Mr P. As an IFA, Firm P isnt tied to any particular 
firm and could sell products from the entire market, not just those  offered by Suffolk Life. 
In this case, when  Suffolk Lifes products are sold by an IFA, all Suffolk Life has to do is 
administer the policy in line with the instructions  provided.  
Ive considered the SimSIPP  application form that was completed when Mr P first took out 
the SIPP in March 2016. This confirms that Firm P is the adviser and a box has also been  
ticked to confirm that the money transferred is to be held in the SIPP bank account to await 
further instruction.  This application form was signed  by Mr P. 
From the information I have on file, it appears that Suffolk Life correctly set the SimSIPP  up, 
as per Firm Ps instructions. However, I note that Firm P subsequently emailed Suffolk Life 
to say that the application should  have  been  for the SmartSIPP, not the SimSIPP.  Firm P 
then submitted the product conversation form  signed by Mr P - and Suffolk Life duly set the 
SmartSIPP up as per the instructions received.  
Given that the initial application  form confirmed  that Firm P was the financial adviser,  I dont 
think Suffolk Life did anything wrong  by accepting this instruction.  And it also wrote to Mr P 
to let him know what had happened and it gave him the opportunity  to change his mind. I 
appreciate that Mr P may have had a lot going on at that time and that he didnt process 
what was happening with his SIPP until sometime later. But I cant hold Suffolk Life 
responsible for this. 
I appreciate that Mr P is unhappy that he has been charged fees even though  his funds have 
been sitting in his cash account.  However, I cant see that Suffolk  Life has taken any fees 
that it wasnt entitled to take. So Im not asking it to refund any of the fees taken. And as 
explained above, Suffolk Life was following Firm Ps instructions  by holding the funds in cash 
until further instruction  was received.  
I appreciate that Mr P has concerns that his retirement date was altered on the application 
form after he signed it. However, it seems that this was altered before the form was 
submitted to Suffolk  Life. So I dont think that Suffolk Life has done  anything  wrong by 
following the instruction provided by Mr Ps financial adviser. In any event, Suffolk  Life has 
confirmed that this retirement  date can be changed  and is merely used for illustration 
purposes. 
Ref: DRN51641073To conclude,  Im not upholding the complaint against Suffolk Life as its not responsible for 
the actions of Firm P. Should Mr P remain unhappy that his SIPP was switched and that his 
money hasnt been invested, these concerns should  be referred to Firm P for consideration. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5164107