K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that a used car she acquired via a conditional  sale agreement with Close  
Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background 
In May 2017  Miss L acquired a used car via a five year conditional sale agreement. The car 
was 11 years old and had a mileage of around  64,500. Miss L took out an extended warranty  
with the car. 
Shortly after taking the car it went into limp mode which caused the car to stall and lose 
power. Miss L took the car back to the dealership  who advised  the car needed a new 
battery. This part wasnt covered by the warranty and Miss L paid for a replacement  battery  
to be fitted. 
In September  2017 the car went into limp mode and wouldnt go over 40mph.  Miss L 
complained to Close Brothers about  the car and it spoke with the dealership. Repairs were 
carried out at a garage of the dealerships choice to the glow plugs and sensor pipes. The 
car was test driven  and the dealership  said that the faults had been  fixed.  Following the 
repairs Miss L confirmed to Close Brothers in October 2017  that she was content for her 
complaint to be closed.  Close Brothers reimbursed Miss L one months payment under the 
agreement as a goodwill  gesture. 
In January 2018 Miss L contacted Close Brothers  again and said the car was showing the 
same faults.  She took the car for diagnostic tests at another garage and it showed  10 
different fault codes  although no warning lights or codes were  illuminated on the dashboard. 
The car was returned to the dealership and it arranged for repairs to be carried out at the 
same garage that had done the earlier repairs. A new DPF unit was fitted and further 
diagnostic checks carried out which showed the fault had been  repaired
Miss L complained to Close  Brothers  for a third time in May 2018 and said that the car had 
again developed the same faults and she didnt want the same garage to carry out the 
repairs. The dealership carried out repairs in its own garage  to the DPF pressure sensor  and 
ran diagnostic tests. Again the car was shown as fixed.
But in August 2018 Miss L complained to Close Brothers that the car had broken down. She 
said shed taken the car to a garage specialising in this make  of car and it had run a 
diagnostic check.  These  checks  had revealed  that the cars transfer box needed to be 
replaced. This garage had told Miss L to take the car back  to the dealership  and have the 
repair carried out under  the warranty. However the warranty had expired that month.
Close Brothers didnt  uphold Miss Ls complaint.  It said that as shed acquired  the car more  
than six months ago and in line with the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (which  covered the 
agreement) the onus  lay with Miss L to show that any faults with the car wouldve been 
present at the point of sale. Close Brothers said that although Miss L had shown evidence  of 
a current fault there was nothing to show this had either resulted from a failed repair or had 
been present  at the point  of sale. 
Close Brothers offered  to review its decision if Miss L could produce anything  further  to show  
the fault had been  present  at the time shed acquired the car. 
Ref: DRN55864912Miss L disagreed with Close  Brothers  decision and complained to this service. She said 
shed either  would like the car repaired or for the agreement to be cancelled. Our adjudicator  
didnt recommend that Miss Ls complaint should  be upheld. He said hed spoken to the 
garage that had diagnosed the fault with the transfer  box and it had told him that this part 
was connected  to the transmission and so was subject to wear and tear. It had said this fault 
could cause the car to go into limp mode.  
Our adjudicator said looking  at the cars service history he could see that checks  had been  
carried out on the cars transmission,  clutch hydraulic systems and various supply lines for 
leaks prior to it being sold to Miss L. He thought  this showed the car had been in a suitable 
condition at the point of sale.
Our adjudicator also said that the extended warranty taken  out by Miss L (which had expired 
in August 2018) would only have covered repairs to the transfer  box if there  had been  a 
sudden mechanical  failure  of that part. This wasnt the case with Miss Ls car which  
remained driveable although it made  a noise and was restricted  as to speed. 
The adjudicator said that there was insufficient evidence to say the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory condition at the point of sale. The previous issues with the car had been  
repaired. He said that he thought Close Brothers  had acted reasonably. 
Miss L disagreed with our adjudicators view. She says the car wasnt fit for purpose when 
she acquired it and the issue with the transfer  box wasnt  due to wear and tear from her use. 
Miss L says that all the problems with the car arose from the transfer box but that issue  was 
wrongly diagnosed by the dealership which wasnt her fault. 
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  car must  be of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking  into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise  
with the car for a period  of time. Here the car was 11 years old and had a mileage  of 
64,500.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale then the retailer would have an 
opportunity to repair. If that wasnt successful then the consumer would be able to reject  the 
car. And where a car is supplied under a finance agreement then its the finance company, 
in this case Close Brothers, who is responsible for dealing with the fault.
So the issue  for me to decide is whether or not the fault with the cars  transfer  box had been 
present at the time Miss L acquired  it.
Ive seen from the Job Cards provided that the car had various  repairs  carried  out in 
September 2017, February and May 2018.  None of these repairs  were  to the transfer box. 
The dealership says these repairs fixed the issues. Miss L says she was told by garages she 
Ref: DRN55864913took the car to that these  repairs werent carried out but I dont have any evidence  from 
these garages that in their opinion the car had either not been repaired  or that the repairs  
were of a poor quality.  
Miss L says that the problem found with the transfer box in August 2018 had been in 
existence since the point of sale and that the two repairs  carried  out by the dealership had 
failed as it had misdiagnosed the problem with the car. She says that the problems she 
experienced with the car have always been the same. Miss L says she has been told that 
the car shouldnt have  a problem with the transfer  box at its mileage.
Close Brothers says it hasnt seen any evidence that shows  the fault was present or 
developing at the point of sale. 
If a fault arises within the first six months then it will be for the retailer  to show that they 
werent faulty at the point of sale. The retailer must also have an opportunity to repair.  After 
six months this burden shifts to the consumer and they have to show  that the goods  were 
faulty at the point of sale. This is because  faults can develop over time through  wear and 
tear. 
I appreciate Miss L says that the car has always had the same  problem as it has suffered 
from the same faults but I havent seen  any evidence  that confirms  this. The Job cards 
provided all show that diagnostics were carried out after the repairs and no faults were 
found. The repairs appear to have been successful. So I cant reasonably say that the 
problems Miss Ls had with the car all stem from the transfer box.
Miss L has also provided evidence of the results for two diagnostics tests  she had carried 
out by garages  of her choice in January and May 2018. Neither  of these diagnostic tests 
reveals an issue with the transfer box. This problem was discovered by the garage that 
examined the car in August 2018. This was around  15 months after Miss L had acquired  he 
car.
Problems with transfer boxes can arise for a number of reasons including  wear and tear and 
driving style. Our adjudicator said it could be due to the gearbox and transfer box oil not 
being changed in line with the manufacturers  recommendations and guidance. Miss L says 
the car hasnt travelled sufficient miles for transfer  box to become worn.
I dont have any evidence  as to why the problem with the transfer  box has arisen. But Ive 
seen that Miss L has driven the car for a further 14,000 miles in the time shes had it in her 
possession. And although  I appreciate she says she hasnt been able to use it as she 
wouldve wished and doesnt think its safe I cant say she hasnt had reasonable use of it. 
Looking at the evidence although  the car developed  faults early on these were  for separate  
things and were all repaired  by the dealership. The issue with the transfer box didnt come  to 
light until Miss L had had the car for over a year and had driven over 14,000 miles. I dont 
have enough evidence for me to reasonably say that this problem was developing or present 
at the point of sale. And as transfer  boxes are subject to wear and tear I think a reasonable 
person would think that after that length of time and taking into account the age of the car 
that a repair  should be expected. I cant fairly say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
So I dont  think Close Brothers has acted unreasonably in closing Miss Ls complaint. Its 
said that if further evidence was to be produced by Miss L then it would review that decision 
which I think is fair.
Ref: DRN55864914For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5586491