K821x#15complaint
Mr L says PDL Finance  Limited (PDL) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six loans PDL provided to Mr L between  August 2016 and May 2018. 
Mr Ls borrowing history is as follows (I have rounded the figures):
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 15/08/2016 25/11/2016 3 £200.00 £140.00 0
2 28/11/2016 31/03/2017 3 £200.00 £117.00 1
3 01/04/2017 29/09/2017  4* £400.00 £186.00 0
4 03/11/2017 29/03/2018 4 £350.00 £161.00 1
5 12/04/2018 23/04/2018 6 £400.00 £141.00 0
6 30/05/2018 outstanding 3 £490.00 £281.00 0
*Four late interest payments  were charged during the loan term 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ls complaint. He thought the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given as Mr L had deferred a payment  on loan 2 and made several late 
payments on loan 3. The adjudicator also thought that any information  about loans 5 and 6 
should be removed  from Mr Ls credit record. 
In response to the adjudicators opinion,  PDL offered to repay interest and costs for loan 5 
and offset this against the outstanding balance due on loan 6, paying the remainder to Mr L.  
Mr L didnt accept the offer. He hasnt given  me anything further to consider.
PDL disagreed that loan 4 should be upheld. So the complaint has been passed  to me for 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN54957582the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold Mr Ls complaint 
in part and have explained why below.
Mr L didnt disagree  with our adjudicators opinion that loans  1 to 3 shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there  is any ongoing  disagreement about  these  loans. So I 
wont be making a decision about  this lending.  But the loans were  part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr L had with PDL. So it is something I will take into account when considering 
the other loans he took. 
Mr L repaid loans 1 and 2 without any difficulty except for one payment  deferral  for loan 2. 
But for loan 3  which  was double  the amount previously borrowed and was to have been 
repaid over a four-month  period  there were four late payments. These incurred additional 
interest charges  which Mr L would  have to pay when it would seem he was already 
struggling with his finances. Considering  the repayment problems Mr L was having, like the 
adjudicator, I also think loan 4 shouldnt have  been  given, for similar  reasons. He was 
showing signs he was struggling  to repay  previous loans and it wasnt unlikely that those 
problems would continue  and therefore  Mr L wasnt in a position to sustainably  repay  loan 4.
By the time loan 5 was taken in April 2018,  Mr L had been  borrowing from PDL for 20 
months with minimal break periods between the loans and was borrowing for longer 
repayment terms. This would have  suggested to PDL that Mr L was continuing to struggle 
with managing his finances and should have  flagged to PDL that it needed to take a closer 
look at his financial position by making  proportionate checks. PDL hasnt been able to show  
me it made any meaningful effort to establish Mr Ls actual financial position. 
Ref: DRN54957583Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of PDLs  lending history with Mr L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which PDL should reasonably have seen  that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point PDL ought to have realised  Mr L was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr L had taken out 5 loans  within 20 months and Mr L had struggled to 
make his repayments on time for earlier loans. So PDL ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr L was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Ls indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ls first loan was for £200  and by loan 5 was for £490.  At this point PDL ought to 
have known that Mr L was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Mr L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  he owed PDL.  Loan  6 was taken 
out 20 months after Mr Ls first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr L had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to PDL over an extended  period.  The 
initial repayment for loan 1 was £140 but this increased to £167 for loan 3 and when 
loan 6 was running  concurrently with loan 5 in June 2018 this repayment peaked at 
£422. And its evident Mr L struggled  with the repayments as repayment for loan 6 is 
still outstanding.  
I think that Mr L lost out because PDL continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr L borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ls ability to access  mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 4, and loans 5 and 6 and PDL should put 
things right.
putting things right  what PDL needs  to do
If PDL has sold the outstanding debt (loan 6) it should buy it back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If PDL is not able to buy back the debt, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
A)PDL should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr L towards 
interest, fees and charges applied to loans 4 and 5, not including  anything it has 
already refunded.
B)PDL should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payment made by
Mr L which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Ref: DRN54957584C)PDL should remove  all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on loan 6, 
and treat any repayments made  by Mr L as though  they had been repayments of 
the principal towards this loan.  If this results  in Mr L having  made overpayments 
then you should  refund these  overpayments with 8% interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, form the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint  is settled.  PDL should  then refund  the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move  to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining loan 6 (and any principal that 
PDL may have written  off). If this results in a surplus, then the surplus  should  be 
paid to Mr L. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then PDL should try 
to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L. PDL shouldnt  pursue 
outstanding balances made  up of principal it may have already written  off. 
E)PDL should remove  any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to loan 4. The overall pattern of Mr Ls borrowing  for loans 5 and 6 means 
any information recorded about  them is adverse, so PDL should remove these 
loans entirely from Mr Ls credit file. PDL do not have to remove loan 6  from   
Mr Ls credit  file until it has been repaid, but PDL should still remove  any adverse  
information recorded about these  loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give Mr L a certificate showing 
how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5495758