K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about Society  of Lloyds (SOL) handling of his claim for legal expenses 
insurance.
Where I refer to SOL, this includes their agents  and claims  handlers.  
background
On 10 January 2018 Mr B received a notice of intended  prosecution  in relation  to an 
allegation of speeding on 2 January 2018. At this time his legal expenses  cover which  is part 
of his home insurance policy  was underwritten by SOL. 
On 12 January 2018 Mr B paid his own solicitor  F a £600  retainer.  
On 19 January 2018 Mr Bs home insurance renewed and the underwriter of the legal 
expenses cover changed to another insurer, A. 
On 9 July 2017 a court set a date for a hearing  of 1 August  2017,  this hearing was later 
deferred until 10 October 2018. 
On 1 August  2017 Mr B signed an agreement with F to deal with his case  on a fixed fee 
basis for £7,200.  
On 15 August 2017 Mr B contacted A to make a claim under his policy. A explained that the 
incident had occurred before their period of insurance and referred him to SOL. Mr B 
contacted SOL who went on to decline the claim. 
In summary  they said theirs was a claims made  policy. And as the claim had been made 
outside their period of insurance,  there was no cover  available.  They  also highlighted that 
even if the claim had been  made  in time, costs incurred without their agreement  werent 
covered.
Mr B understandably wanted cover and had both SOL and A each saying the other  insurer 
was responsible for the claim. So he approached  our service. One of our investigators  
concluded that SOL should  have  accepted  responsibility for the claim. By this point Mr B had 
been to court and achieved a favourable result. The investigator also thought that they 
should pay Mr B £2,400  towards his legal  costs.
SOL disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.  I came to a different 
outcome to our investigator. So I contacted  both sides and explained  that I agreed SOL 
should respond to the claim,  but I didnt agree that they needed to take any further action. 
This was because the policy  didnt provide cover for costs incurred without their agreement. 
And even  if it did, SOLs  position had been prejudiced by not being made aware  of the claim 
sooner. 
SOL accepted what Id said. Mr B disagreed that his claim had been fairly declined  and 
made some further points.  Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go 
ahead with my decision. 
Neither Mr B nor SOL disputed my provisional outcome in relation to SOL being  the insurer  
who should respond to the claim.  So I wont provide further comment  on that point. 
Ref: DRN57005502my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Bs policy  says under no circumstances should  you instruct your own lawyer  or 
accountant as the insurer  will not pay any costs incurred without our agreement. It goes on 
to explain that there  is cover for legal costs and expenses in relation to certain  insured  
events. Legal costs  and expenses are specifically defined within the policy as reasonable 
legal costs and disbursements  reasonably and proportionately incurred and agreed in 
advance by us
Terms like these  are very common in legal expenses  insurance and I dont consider them  to 
be inherently unfair. I think the policy makes clear that cover is only available  for costs 
agreed in advance.
Mr B signed  an agreement with F on 1 August 2018.  This was for them to deal with his case  
on an agreed fee basis for £7,200.  The agreement said The agreed fee will cover the cost 
of representation at your trial and at one further  administrative  hearing.  The agreed fee is 
payable no matter how the case is resolved or disposed of 
I think that the costs  mentioned were incurred  on that date, as Mr B had entered  into an 
agreement to pay them, irrespective of the how the case was resolved. As these costs were  
incurred before Mr B had notified SOL of the claim,  they had no opportunity  to even consider 
if the claim was one they would cover before they were incurred. Mr B first notified A of the 
claim after incurring these  costs.  So it isnt a case that he only came  to SOL later as a result 
of initially approaching the wrong  underwriter.
For these reasons I think that SOLs position was prejudiced by not being made aware of the 
claim sooner. But irrespective of this, the main point  remains  that the policy does not cover  
costs incurred without  SOLs  agreement.  
I understand Mr B says he was never provided with a copy of the policy documents  and so 
he wasnt aware of the requirements of the policy but I dont think this is enough to mean 
that SOL shouldnt  rely on a clear  and unambiguous policy term. Mr B was aware he had 
cover and could have made contact with SOL (or A) earlier. I dont think  the fact that he 
didnt should count against  SOL. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5700550