K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs H bought the policy in 1996 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. It protected her 
monthly credit card repayments if she couldnt  work as a result  of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mrs H mainly says that she had significant  sick pay and so she didn't need PPI. She also 
said that if the costs  and benefits had been  explained, and shed known it was optional,  then 
she wouldve declined the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H arranged her credit  card and the PPI during a meeting  at a Halifax  branch. Halifax 
says it advised  her to take out the PPI although  I dont  know exactly  what  was discussed.  
But on the application form Mrs H completed  to get her credit card shes  marked  the box to 
have PPI added to the account. She couldve left this blank if she hadnt wanted PPI. And 
she also signed the completed  form next to where it says: Sign  it only if you want  to be 
legally bound by its terms. So I think its likely that Mrs H would've carefully checked 
through the information on the form before  doing this. 
 
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think Mrs H wouldve seen that it was up to her to 
say if having PPI was something she wanted  and she chose to take it out. 
As Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs H it not only had to give her important policy  
information in a clear  way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable  for Mrs H. 
Halifax told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document  from the date Mrs H took 
out PPI. But it has provided a policy  document  which was in use afterwards  so I think  its 
likely that in all main  respects the policy that Mrs H took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions.
Ive taken into account that Mrs Hs employer wouldve  paid her at least  6 months sick pay. 
But the policy couldve paid out for as long as Mrs H was unable  to work  and if she hadnt 
been able to return to work it wouldve cleared the balance outstanding on her card at the 
start of the claim in 12 months. 
Ref: DRN59203602So the PPI provided better protection than she couldve  relied on getting through  her 
employer. And it wouldve  paid out on top of sick pay providing  Mrs H with a useful benefit at 
a difficult time  especially bearing  in mind that she mightve had some  extra  costs  as a 
result of being sick or disabled. 
The policy wouldve also paid out if Mrs H lost her job and became unexpectedly 
unemployed.
So I think the PPI couldve been  useful and it was suitable for Mrs H. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The policy didnt  cover some things.  But it doesnt look as if that wouldve 
affected Mrs H. So, I dont  think having more information about the policy  exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mrs Hs decision  to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mrs H when she bought  the policy. But from 
what Ive seen, the monthly premiums seem to have been affordable for her when she took 
the policy out. Mrs H paid for the PPI each  month  so she couldve cancelled  the policy at any 
time without  losing out financially if her circumstances changed or she no longer wanted to 
pay to keep it running. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mrs H still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed  as PPI 
gave her useful protection in her particular  situation.  I dont think better  information  wouldve 
stopped her buying it.
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs H because: 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) got a high level of commission and profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) has basically offered to pay back  
the amount of commission  and profit share  that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and 
I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN59203603what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has to pay back  to Mrs H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) should also pay back to Mrs H any extra interest she paid because  of that. 
So Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should  re-work the credit card account and pay 
back to Mrs H the difference  between what Mrs H owes  and what  she wouldve owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should  also pay Mrs H 8%* simple interest if she paid off the 
credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mrs H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
If Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) has already done this, then it needs to do nothing 
further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5920360