K821x#15complaint
Ms G has complained that Evolution Insurance Company  Limited failed to provide its 
breakdown service under her breakdown policy when her partners car broke down on a 
motorway. 
Both Ms G and her partner have communicated with us, for ease I shall just refer to Ms G.
background
Ms G broke down on a motorway and phoned  Evolution for help. She said the adviser  was 
limiting on what her policy offered  which didnt  appear to be what she thought  her policy  
offered. Ms G had bought the Gold level policy. The adviser said Ms G had only one of two 
options. Roadside  assistance or have the car taken to a garage within  13 miles. And Ms G 
had to choose the garage herself. Ms G thought her policy  provided  recovery  of the car back  
to her home or another location  too. But Ms G said the adviser  was adamant she only had 
these two choices  and once she made her decision,  that was the end of Evolutions help 
under this policy.
Ms G said she then had to use her phone  to find a garage within  13 miles of where she 
broke down.  This was because it seemed like her car had an electrical  failure so the 
likelihood of it being fixed at the roadside was slim. 
The recovery driver arrived and took Ms G and her car to the garage she chose. It was 
supposed to be open till 5pm but when they arrived at 4.30pm it was already shut. The 
recovery driver then took her to another garage. That garage  said they wouldnt be able to 
look at the car for several days and they didnt  want it stored at their garage either. 
So Ms G phoned  Evolution again  to request the car was recovered  to her home. The adviser  
said the policy didnt  cover that. So Ms G arranged her recovery  of her car back to her home 
at the cost of £248.10.
She then raised  a complaint with Evolution  and asked it to refund  her the costs of her 
recovery home. Evolution didnt think it had done anything wrong and refused. So Ms G 
brought her complaint  to us.
The investigator ultimately upheld it and was of the view that Evolution should  refund this 
cost. Evolution refused,  so Ms Gs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Ms G had the Gold level of cover. This provided the following:
If your vehicle suffers a breakdown , we will arrange to send roadside  assistance to 
the scene of the of the breakdown and arrange  to pay call out fees and mileage 
charges needed  to repair or assist with the vehicle. If, in the opinion of our 
breakdown and recovery operator, they are unable  to repair the vehicle at the 
roadside within 30 minutes, we will assist as follows:
Ref: DRN51232912Local Recovery
Cover applies within the territorial  limits, more than one mile from your home 
address.
We will arrange and pay for you, your  vehicle, and up to 4 passengers to be 
recovered to the nearest suitable garage  within 25 miles  able to undertake the 
repair.
National Recovery
Cover applies within the territorial  limits, more than one mile from your home 
address. If local recovery not possible at the time of the breakdown , or the repair 
cannot be made within the same day, we will arrange for you, your
vehicle and up to 4 passengers to be transported  to your home or original 
destination within the territorial limits.
Home Assist
Cover applies within the territorial  limits at or within one mile of your home  
address.
If we are unable to effect repairs  or repairs will take longer than 30 minutes, we will 
arrange and pay for you, your vehicle, and up to 4 passengers to be recovered to 
the nearest suitable garage within 25 miles able to undertake the repair.
Onward Travel
Onward travel benefits only apply  where  the breakdown location is more than 50 
miles from your home address or original  destination within  the territorial limits . 
Once your  vehicle has been recovered to the nearest suitable garage , if the repair 
cannot be made within the same day, instead of National Recovery we may instead 
organise one or more  of the following:
 Rail, bus, coach,  or equivalent costs of more convenient travel, to enable you and 
your passengers to continue your journey  to your  home or original destination within  
the territorial limits.
 Overnight hotel or bed and breakfast accommodation, up to £75 (including VAT) 
per person  and up to £250 in total.
 A hire car during the time your  vehicle  is undertaking repairs. Where available, this 
will be an equivalent vehicle up to Group C will be provided up to a maximum of £50 
per day for up to 2 days in total. You must  be able to satisfy any requirements  of the 
vehicle hire company,  and you will be responsible for any standard  charges such as 
excess and fuel. A hire vehicle will only be provided  where we have arranged
recovery of your vehicle to a suitable garage where repairs are being undertaken.
Please note that onward  travel benefits  may operate on a pay & reclaim basis, 
please obtain a receipt,  and submit this as part of your claim.
Cover in Europe
Roadside assistance,  local recovery and onward travel benefits in this section are 
extended to Europe up to 31 days per trip. Each  trip must start
and finish at your home address.
Repatriation from Europe
Once all other options under this section  have been  exhausted, we will arrange  and 
pay for you, your vehicle, and up to 4 passengers to be repatriated  from Europe to 
Ref: DRN51232913a single destination in the territorial limits, (up to the UK market value of your 
vehicle).
Callout Limit
You are covered for up to 6 callouts during the period  of cover.
Please also refer to the general exclusions,  terms and conditions.
Suitable garage is also defined as any appropriately qualified  mechanic  or garage which is 
suitable for the type of repair required and where  the remedial work undertaken can be 
evidenced in writing.
Ive listened to the call recordings provided by Evolution carefully.  Clearly  in the first call the 
adviser is plainly incorrect  as theres no policy  term as detailed above which limits the 
garage recovery to 13 miles.  Furthermore  since the definition of suitable garage is 
dependent on the type of repair required,  theres  no duty on the policyholder to know  what  
might be wrong with car in the first call in order to know which  type of garage might be 
suitable for the repair of their car. 
So I consider there was no policy condition forcing Ms G to decide in this first call to obtain  
assistance, to either decide on roadside  assistance  or (my emphasis) be recovered to a 
suitable garage. This is because the recovery to a local garage is resolutely determined in 
the policy wording  by the fact that the car must  be incapable of being repaired at the 
roadside and that this can only be decided  by the opinion of the person called out to the 
roadside to assist. Therefore it follows that only the roadside assistance mechanic can 
determine that, not the policyholder sitting on the side of motorway,  having  just broken down. 
Given the car couldnt be repaired  at either  of the two garages on the same  day, Ms G and 
her car were brought to, the policy clearly then provides for National Recovery home. The 
wording is clear in that it says we will (my emphasis)  arrange National Recovery  In Ms 
Gs situation where the breakdown was most  likely well over 50 miles away from her home, 
the policy wording  merely  provides that Evolution  may  organise  onward travel by rail, bus or 
coach, and/or overnight accommodation and/or a hire car. As this is worded  as being further 
options in the cover, I consider its not for Evolution to refuse National Recovery and 
instead insist Ms G should  get a bus home as what happened in the second  call.  
The policy provides for someone to sent to out to the roadside. If in that operatives opinion  
the car cant  be fixed at the roadside, that operative  decides, as which garage it should go 
to. If that garage cant fix the car as happened  to Ms G, then National Recovery is arranged  
or possibly  onward travel. That is the cover detailed in the Gold level that Ms G bought and 
which in my view wasnt  appropriately provided  to her at the time of her breakdown.
Evolution, in its response to the investigator, explains  its policy  in a way which isnt detailed  
in the policy  document. It says its adviser was correct that the garage  must be within 13 
miles away from the place the car broke down but thats not what  its policy says. At all. It 
said the broker of the policy should  have explained  all this to Ms G. However I dont consider 
thats fair or reasonable. Ms G was entitled  to rely on what the wording of her policy stated, 
not some  internal billing  issues  as regards call out fees of roadside assistance operatives.  
And if Evolution has an issue with what the broker might have done or not done, it should  
take the matter  up with the broker direct.
Further Evolution talks of several callouts made  for the same breakdown by Ms G and 
thats also incorrect. Ms G broke  down  and was simply attempting to get assistance in the 
Ref: DRN51232914manner her policy said she would  for the same breakdown. The failure of the original adviser  
to have a roadside  operator attend  Ms G and make his own decisions as to what  should 
happen as per the policy terms,  ensured the entire  matter ended up so badly for Ms G. This 
in turn meant  the policy  terms and conditions  werent adhered to in order to provide the 
cover Ms G had paid for.
What Evolution said in response  to the investigator as to how it believed  its cover operated is 
not listed in its policy  terms, which I have uplifted from the policy  document  itself and 
inserted here. Therefore  in my view it has no reasonable bearing on Ms Gs complaint. 
Further if there any confusion as to how the policy terms  can be interpreted,  its always 
construed in favour of the consumer, since obviously consumers arent insurance experts 
and the providers of the policy are.
So, I consider Evolution should refund Ms Gs recovery  costs with interest. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Evolution Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Refund Ms G the sum of £248.10 adding interest of 8% simple from the date Ms G 
paid this to the date of its refund.
If income tax is to be deducted  from the interest, appropriate documentation should  
be provided to Ms G for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5123291