K820x#14complaint
This complaint is being made  by Mr M on behalf of his wife, the late Mrs M, and himself.  In 
the hope that Mr M wont mind, I will refer to his wife as Mrs M throughout this decision.
Mr M says Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS) mis-sold  him and Mrs M a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 1989  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M only for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £150 a month  towards Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £6.75 a month.  The 
policy was amended in 1990, when they took out a further advance, to repay £200 a month  
towards their mortgage. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a plumber. He has told us he was not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  the mortgage  should he be unable to work.  
But given the time Mr M had been with his employer,  I think it was likely  he would have been 
entitled to some statutory  sick and redundancy  pay. Mr M has said he was in good health  at 
the time of the sale. 
Mrs M was employed as a part time shop assistant at the time and was entitled to death  in 
service and redundancy pay. She also didnt have any other means  such  as savings  to 
make the mortgage  repayments. 
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  believe  there to be no evidence to rebut  that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN54649012The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1989 and the PPI was amended in 1990,  before the General 
Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published  its code of practice in June 2000 and before 
the sale of general  insurance products like this became regulated  in January 2005. So, the 
GISC Code,  the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance 
conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent  applicable  to this complaint, nor is the FCAs 
Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN54649013Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs M, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent they 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN54649014Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and YBS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  It has sent us copies of the 
mortgage documents Mr and Mrs M completed at the time. On the mortgage  application  
form there is a section about the PPI where it asks applicants to tick if they wish to take it 
out. Mr and Mrs M have ticked to select the policy. There  is nothing to suggest  the PPI is 
compulsory and if they didnt want the PPI, Mr and Mrs M couldve left the box blank. There 
is also a separate  application form for the PPI which has been  completed and Mr and Mrs M 
have both signed. Similar paperwork is also available from 1990.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs M knew  the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
Both YBS and Mr M agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs M. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its Mr and Mrs M were given a reasonable description of what the policy was 
intended to cover on the mortgage application. It explained that the policy would  provide  
cover for up to 12 months  for accident, sickness or unemployment  and explained that the 
costs were monthly. And I dont think its likely they would have agreed to take it out with any 
sense of what the policy was for. 
The monthly benefit required had to be specified  on the PPI application forms. And this was 
confirmed on the mortgage offers. For the original sale in 1989,  the mortgage  offer also set 
out the monthly cost of the PPI.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information on about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out 
the policy. And theres nothing to show they were told the cost of the amended  policy  
although I think its unlikely they would have  agreed to this amendment,  without some  idea of 
how much  the premium might be.
So I dont  think YBS gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN54649015In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr M has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought  to have  done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs M. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policy, had YBS done things properly. 
Mr M says they would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs M had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr M being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs M thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs M have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
I think its likely Mr and Mrs M understood what the cost and benefit of the PPI would be 
before they agreed to take it out. But the information  about  other  aspects of the policy, such 
as the limitations  and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  
Ref: DRN54649016Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  defect or infirmity or 
recurring disease suffered that Mr M knew about or ought to have known about in the 
12 months before the start date of the policy and which recurred during the first 12 
months of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his normal occupation or any similar  gainful occupation he may be reasonably 
expected to undertake bearing in mind his knowledge and training;
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs M pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr M was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr M 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr M didnt have  any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr and Mrs M had known Mr M could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into Mr and Mrs Ms thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr M was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr M was made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Ref: DRN54649017Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Ms circumstances  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr and Mrs M found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he and Mrs M would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  YBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1989  and 1990 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN54649018and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5464901