K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Mr M took out three  loans with Cashfloat between June 2018  and October  2018.  Mr M 
repaid all three loans.  A summary of Mr Ms lending with Cashfloat is as follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedno. of 
repayments
at the outsetdate repaid
15 June 2018 400 3 20 July 2018
231 July 2018 300 2 20 September 2018
36 October 2018 300 1 20 November 2018
Mr M says that Cashfloat didnt carry out proportionate checks  before lending  to him. He 
says that, if it had done so, it would have realised  that he was reliant on payday loans and 
couldnt afford to repay them. Mr M wants a refund of interest and charges, with interest. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint. She said that Cashfloat shouldnt  have 
given Mr M loan three and set out what she thought it should do to put matters  right.  
Cashfloat didnt  respond to the adjudicators assessment. As there was no agreement 
between the parties,  the complaint was passed  to me, an ombudsman,  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN57500272the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat was required to establish  whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer  should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. In addition, it follows  that a lender  should realise, 
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower will not be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
I have carefully considered all of the arguments,  evidence and information provided  in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I dont think that Cashfloat  was wrong  to give Mr M loans one and two. Given  the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time and his history with the 
lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Cashfloat to ask Mr M for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt 
anything in the information Mr M provided  or the information Cashfloat shouldve been  aware  
of at that point,  which meant it wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying  what Mr M 
said about his finances. 
Before loan three, I think Cashfloat shouldve taken steps to find out about not only Mr Ms 
income, normal monthly living costs and regular financial commitments but also his other  
short-term financial commitments. Cashfloat didnt do that. I dont think  that Cashfloat  carried 
out proportionate checks before loan three.  
Based on what Ive seen,  I think that if Cashfloat had carried  out proportionate checks  before 
loan three  it would have seen, as I have, that Mr M had three  other short-term loans that he 
hadnt yet repaid. In those circumstances, I think Cashfloat would have seen that Mr M was 
having problems  managing his money and concluded that it was unlikely that he could repay  
further borrowing  in a sustainable  way. So, I dont think that Cashfloat  should have given
Mr M loan three. 
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan three from Mr Ms credit file;
Ref: DRN57500273 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint in part. Western  Circle Ltd, 
trading as Cashfloat, should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5750027