K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains on behalf  of her company, that I will refer to as E, that AXA Insurance UK
Plc unfairly  declined Es claim following a fire at its premises.
background
The facts  of this case are known to both parties,  and I have detailed these previously within 
my provisional decision. So I have only outlined  the key issues here.
Mrs H made  a claim on Es policy following a fire. A forensic report established the fire was 
deliberate and AXA declined the claim as it said the loss wasnt  accidental. 
It concluded that as there had been  no break  in, and started by someone with keys to the 
property, its likely Mrs H was aware of the fire being  started. It also said Mr H had visited the 
property in the early  hours prior to the fire starting.
My provisional findings
In November 2020 I issued a provisional decision.  Ive included part of this below and 
summarised my findings.
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to a different
outcome to our investigator, I have explained why below.
Firstly, I note AXAs request that the matter is more appropriately dealt with by a court of law,
rather than this service. This service  is able to, and often  does, make  findings on complaints
about the points covered in this complaint,  so I dont agree that it is inappropriate to do so
here and disagree  that the complaint should  be dismissed on this basis.
AXA has said that it considers Es claim to be fraudulent, so has declined cover. AXA has
also said that it considers  Mrs H to have  made  a misrepresentation when she took out Es
policy. I have considered both of these in turn.
Misrepresentation
AXA said Mrs H hadnt made  a fair presentation of risk and if it had known this it wouldnt 
have offered  her cover.
The relevant  law says policyholders must make a fair presentation of risk when taking 
out a commercial  policy  which includes disclosing relevant information about the risk in a 
clear way to the insurer.
I considered the information AXA had said wasnt  disclosed but concluded this wasnt a 
qualifying breach  because it hadnt evidenced it wouldnt have insured E.
So I wasnt satisfied  AXA could take any further  action in regards to the alleged 
misrepresentation.
Fraudulent claim
In cases  where  fraud has been  alleged,  our role is not to decide  whether fraud  has been
committed, but to decide whether the business acted fairly and reasonably when 
reaching its decision to rely on a fraud  term in a policy to refuse a claim. We understand 
Ref: DRN58187082that accusing someone of fraud  is a serious  matter.  So its important that a business  has 
enough weight  of evidence to make  its decision fair and reasonable.
The forensic investigators  report said there  was no signs  of forced entry  so the fire was 
set by someone who had a key to the property.
Mrs H and her husband Mr H are the only two known key holders  and while they had 
suggested ex-employees may have kept a key, theyve  provided no evidence  to support 
anyone else being  in possession of a key.
Its not disputed Mr H attended  the premises in the early hours prior to the fire  and 
CCTV shows him to be present around 1:30am.
The forensic investigator  concluded  it was most likely the fire began  before it was 
discovered at around 07:30am.
CCTV wasnt available for this time in the morning, so I didnt think  the absence  of this 
disproved AXAs findings.
Mrs H had provided evidence to show Mr H had been to hospital  around 3am  but this 
didnt evidence when he left or where he was afterwards. So this didnt change my mind.
I also considered  a number of inconsistencies  in versions of events that AXA had relied 
on. Mrs H had provided  her own comments as to why she felt AXAs  statements werent 
accurate. But even  taking her amendments on face value,  I was still satisfied there  were  
inconsistencies in the versions  of events given.
AXA also said the way the leasehold  of the property was purchased  was unusual as the 
money was paid directly into Mrs Hs husbands  account,  rather  than to his company that 
owns the building. It also highlighted  the proximity of the fire from the date the insurance 
policy was taken out.
Response to my provisional decision
AXA responded to my provisional decision to confirm it accepted  it and had nothing  more to 
add.
Mrs H didnt accept my provisional decision.  She provided a detailed response.  I have 
considered all the points she raised  and have addressed the most relevant in my findings.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In her response Mrs H has put forward a number of different possibilities for how the fire 
could have been started. She has said for example that a generic key for the shutters can be 
purchased, so someone could have gained entry that way. And she has said there is a pub 
next door thats been causing  problems, so someone related to that pub could have started 
it. While I accept these are both possible explanations, its my role to decide what  is most 
likely. The police  report  concluded that the fire was started by someone who had a key to the 
premises. And from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to 
conclude the fire was started by a keyholder.
Mrs H says she doesnt agree that it was right for me to say that her and her husband  were  
the only known  key holders. She has pointed  out that a number of ex-employees  probably 
did still have keys to the premises. While I accept this may be the case, when reaching my 
conclusion I have to focus on the facts rather than what might be. And the only two people  
who can be confirmed as having a key to the building are her and her husband.
Ref: DRN58187083Mrs H has also referred  to a final decision that was issued by another ombudsman  at this 
service. This was in relation to her husbands claim for the same incident against  a different 
insurer. I can see the ombudsman upheld this complaint. He concluded that the insurer in 
that case hadnt done enough to show that the claim was dishonest. I want  to be clear  that 
the decision issued  by the other ombudsman has no bearing on this decision. It was brought 
by a different  complainant (Mr H) and about a different insurer.  The ombudsman  concluded 
that the insurer in that case didnt do enough to show  that it could fairly rely on the fraud 
condition in the policy. However I am satisfied that AXA did in this case. 
Mrs H has also provided a lot of detail about the time her husband spent at the hospital and 
has said that this proves  he couldnt  have returned to the premises.  I have reviewed the 
report from the hospital and this only confirms  that he arrived  at around 3am and that the 
report was completed < 2 hours  (less  than two hours)  after he arrived.  So Im not 
persuaded this undermines  AXAs position  on where Mr H was. 
Mrs H has also pointed out some  wording in my provisional decision that she thinks  is 
inaccurate. For example my use of the term early hours of the morning. I have reviewed all 
her comments about her concerns, but these comments dont have  any bearing on the 
outcome of the complaint  so I wont address these here. 
As Ive said,  in cases where  fraud  is alleged it isnt my job to decide exactly  happened.  But 
instead to assess  whether  the insurer has done  enough to show  its made a fair decision by 
declining the claim.
In this case, I am satisfied that AXA has. It has provided evidence  to show it has done an in-
depth investigation into the circumstances.  And from the evidence provided, I think  AXA has 
shown it was reasonable for it to conclude  that the fire was started by a keyholder, and that 
Mr H had visited the property at least once in the 12 hours before the fire. Further AXA has 
demonstrated a number of inconsistencies in the information provided by Mrs H throughout 
the claim.  So Im satisfied  that AXA has acted fairly when declining Es claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I wont require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H on behalf  of 
E to accept  or reject  my decision before 22 March 2021.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5818708