K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that the service he received from Santander UK Plc (Santander),  following  a 
change in his account was poor, and also the way his complaint was dealt with thereafter 
was also poor. There are a number  of aspects to the complaint which are set out below.
background 
On the 7 December 2017  Mr T was advised  to close his 123 credit card account ending 777 
by a Santander advisor, which he did. Mr T said he assumed that Santander had then closed  
the account as the advisor had cut up the card. On the 22 December, a new Zero credit  
card was issued to Mr T, but he experienced problems  with it, and the correctly  working PIN 
didnt arrive until the end of July 2018. Also on the 22 December Mr T made  a manual 
payment to his account of the full balance outstanding, but that months  direct  debit  also 
went through on the 27 December putting the account in credit. Mr T was also unhappy that 
the credit  balance wasnt earning interest for over 6 months.
Mr T also complains  that he received text messages telling  him that he had spent more than 
90% of the credit  limit, when he had not, and also that the credit limit had been reduced 
without any prior notice. He complains  that he had to spend a huge amount of time on 
resolving his complaint  including writing  letters, performing calculations and visiting the 
branch, all of which he feels he ought to receive some compensation.
Santander has accepted they made  errors in not putting a block  on the credit card, and not 
cancelling the direct debit. Further, they accepted  that when Mr T paid the balance in the 
branch an advisor  should have told him the direct  debit would still be paid as there was 
insufficient time to stop it. As the account  remained  in credit, it wasnt closed until July 2018 
after a letter had been sent out to Mr T asking him to contact Santander, but Santander  say 
Mr T ought to have known  that because they had issued monthly online statements to him 
prior to that in any event. 
Santander also pointed  out that Mr T had in fact used his new credit card but had been  
inserting the wrong PIN which  is why it wasnt working. They  said that they had also checked 
their log of text alerts  sent to Mr T between September 2010  and July 2018 which did not 
show any texts of the nature Mr T described. As to the reduction  in credit limits Santander 
said they had not been reduced.
In recognising their errors Santander  paid in total £150 to Mr T, but he remained unhappy  
with their response and so an adjudicator  from this service looked into the complaint but 
didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong.  Mr T disagreed  with that view and so the 
matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have not repeated the adjudicators  
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
I can understand how Mr T would assume his original credit  card account had been closed, 
but even so, he was still getting statements sent to him which would have shown it had not 
Ref: DRN56778812been, and that there was a credit  balance there.  I think it is fair to expect a customer  to take 
responsibility for their own account  and mange it, and that would include being aware that it 
was still open  and there was still a credit balance  on it. The evidence also shows that Mr T 
did in fact receive his card and the reason it wasnt working was that he was entering the 
wrong PIN. That is unfortunate but that is not something Santander can be responsible  for.
I appreciate that Mr T says inaccurate  text messages were sent, but having looked at 
Santanders log there is no evidence of this. Equally I cannot see any evidence to support 
the complaint  that the credit limits were decreased, in fact the opposite appears to be the 
case from the statements  provided. So I cant say Santander have fallen into error here.
I can fully accept that Mr T has gone  to some time and trouble  to resolve this complaint and 
has certainly spent a good  deal of his time in preparing letters and calculations. I understand 
how he has tried to calculate an appropriate level of compensation by linking the time he 
spent to an hourly rate, however I dont think that is the correct way of addressing a 
compensatory payment for awards  of distress an inconvenience.
What I need to decide is whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt  with 
Mr T. Santander have acknowledged  their errors  and apologised for them,  paying  £150 in 
compensation. Ive given  thought to that level of compensation and I do think that it is 
reasonable. It is in line with the awards  this service would make  for distress and 
inconvenience in circumstances  like this, and I think it is fair.
I know Mr T will be disappointed with my decision  but Im not satisfied that Santander  have 
treated him unfairly, and so Im not going to ask it to do anything further, and Im not 
upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5677881