K820x#14complaint
In 1999, Mr M took out a credit  card with Bank of Scotland plc. At the same time, Bank of 
Scotland sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy. He thinks that Bank of 
Scotland mis-sold this policy to him and he believes it should  refund him all the premiums he 
paid for it, plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator didnt think that 
Bank of Scotland had mis-sold the policy to Mr M. Mr M disagreed and asked  for an 
ombudsman to review  his case, so it has come to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr Ms case. Ive looked  into everything that Mr M and Bank of Scotland have 
sent us or told us and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain  why below.
Mr M has told us that he applied for the credit  card and took the policy over the phone, but 
Bank of Scotlands has said he applied for the card and the policy through the post. It has 
sent us a copy of Mr Ms application form which I think  shows that it probably did sell the 
policy to Mr M through the post. Either  way, both sides have  agreed  that Bank of Scotland  
didnt advise Mr M about the policy  or recommend it to him personally. This meant that Bank 
of Scotland didnt  have to check that the policy was right for Mr M, but it still had to tell him 
about its features  fairly and clearly  and let him decide if he wanted it. 
Mr M has told us that Bank  of Scotland added PPI to his credit card without his permission. 
Hes said that he was annoyed to find that PPI (was) added to (his) credit card without (his) 
knowledge for an insurance  policy  (he) did not need or want. But Ive looked at the copy of 
the application form that Bank of Scotland sent us and I think it shows  that Bank of Scotland 
did give Mr M a choice  about PPI.
At that time,  Bank of Scotland  called its PPI policy Credit  Care Insurance. Its application 
form offered this to customers  in a section called Payment  Protection. This section of the 
form was separate  from information about  the card itself. It provided a very brief description 
of the PPI policy and then gave customers the choice to buy PPI by signing alongside a 
statement which said:
YES. I want to arrange Credit Care  Insurance to protect my repayments  ..
Mr M has signed the form alongside the statement. Of course,  as this happened a long time 
ago, I fully accept  Mr M may not remember these details. But Im satisfied that Bank  of 
Scotland gave  him a choice about PPI and he chose  to take it. If he had wanted to apply for 
the card without PPI, he could have left this section  of the form blank.
The form itself didnt  say much about the policy and I dont know  what other information, if 
any, Bank of Scotland gave Mr M about it. So Ive looked into the policys  likely features to 
see if there were any that would have stopped Mr M from buying it if Bank of Scotland  had 
told him about them. 
Ref: DRN55197892From what  Mr M has said about his circumstances in 1999, I think he was eligible for the 
policy and wasnt affected by its main limitations  and exclusions.  He also seems to have 
been able to afford it. 
Mr M has told us that if he was off work ill, he would have received sick pay from his 
employer and if he had been made redundant he would  have  been  entitled to redundancy 
pay. Hes also said that his partner may have been  able to help him with his card 
repayments if needed. So he doesnt  think he needed PPI. However,  as Bank  of Scotland  
didnt recommend PPI to Mr M personally,  it didnt have to check these details. 
Overall, I accept  that Bank of Scotland may not have explained everything about  the policy 
to Mr M as clearly as it should have done.  But, as Im satisfied that Mr M was eligible for the 
policy, that he wasnt affected by its main  exclusions  and limitations and that he could afford 
it, I dont  think clearer  information would have stopped him from buying it. 
I dont think that Bank of Scotland  mis-sold  the policy to Mr M. But Bank of Scotland  has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium), so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt 
tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium, and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5519789