K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Allianz Insurance plc have declined to cover a claim she made  on her 
equine insurance  policy.
background
Miss G bought a horse, who Ill refer to as F. She took out an insurance policy  provided  by 
Allianz. The policy was cancelled because Allianz  said it hadnt  received  information it 
needed from Miss G.
Miss G took out a new insurance policy with Allianz. F was seen by a number of vets after he 
tripped and showed signs of lameness. She claimed  for the costs of these consultations and 
treatment. Allianz didnt pay her claim. The policy terms  and conditions  said claims for pre-
existing medical conditions werent covered.  It said Miss G had known F had tripped, and 
had consultations  about this when  she took out the new policy.  It also said she should  have 
told it about this when she applied for the policy. If shed done  so, Allianz would have  
specifically excluded cover for conditions causing  lameness.
Miss G complained to Allianz. She said the condition hadnt been present when she took out 
the first policy. And she said she hadnt  received letters from Allianz asking for the further  
information. She also said the condition F had been diagnosed with wasnt linked to the 
problems shed noticed before she took out the new policy.
Allianz rejected  her complaint.  It said it had sent her several reminders to send the 
information before cancelling the first policy. And it was satisfied the condition was pre-
existing. It also said the specific exclusion for lameness  had been  applied correctly.
Miss G brought her complaint to this service.  Our investigator reviewed her complaint. He 
thought Allianz  hadnt done anything wrong. He said hed seen evidence Allianz had sent 
reminders to Miss G asking her for the further information before it cancelled  the first policy.  
He also thought Allianz were entitled to decline  cover  for the claim.  He said Miss G should  
have declared  Fs recent tripping. And if she had done, Allianz would have been entitled to 
rely on the lameness exclusion it would have applied to her policy to decline the claim.
 
Miss G didnt  accept the claim  could  be declined. She also maintained she hadnt  received 
the requests to send the information. And she questioned  why Allianz hadnt called or 
emailed to request  this information. She also said she didnt think  Allianz  system for sending 
post was very reliable.  She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz cancelled  the first policy  because Miss G didnt send a vets report  it asked for when  
she took out the policy. Shes said it didnt ask for the report  when it sent an email  after she 
took out the policy online. But Ive seen screenshots of the online application process. This 
would have asked  Miss G to send  the report to Allianz within 14 days, otherwise the policy  
would be cancelled. And Ive seen the letters Allianz said it sent to Miss G asking for the 
report. The first of the requests was dated within a few days  of the email shed received. 
Ref: DRN56824152Unfortunately, Allianz systems dont have confirmation of the dates the letters were sent due 
to the amount of time that has elapsed since they were sent. But Ive seen  nothing  to 
suggest it didnt  send the letters.  And I think it was fair to send these requests by post.  
Theres no obligation on them to make  these requests by email or phone. Im satisfied 
Allianz acted fairly when  it cancelled her first policy.
Miss G took out the second  policy online. Shes  said her policy  documents  for the new policy 
took a long time to arrive. She says this shows Allianz doesnt have proper processes in 
place for sending out post, and so this supports her view that all three letters  Allianz says it 
sent about the first policy werent received. Allianz  has provided evidence  showing it sent the 
policy documents to Miss G a few days after it received further information from Miss G. So I 
dont think the evidence supports a suggestion that Allianz systems for sending post are 
unreliable. It also doesnt  support Miss Gs contention that Allianz  didnt send the letters 
about the first policy.
Ive considered the effect of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) on this case.  Miss G didnt disclose medical problems for which F received  
treatment before she took out the policy. I think the wording of the questions  Miss G was 
asked means this should have been  declared.  CIDRA allows  Allianz to act as it would have if 
the relevant information had been declared  correctly. Allianz has shown it would have 
insured F, but would have added an exclusion that excluded  cover for any condition causing 
the clinical signs of lameness.  This would have  been  in addition to a general condition  of the 
policy which  excludes cover for all pre-existing medical conditions which were present when 
the policy was taken out.
Theres a dispute  between Miss Gs vet, who doesnt  think  the condition now diagnosed is 
related to the tripping  Miss G knew about when  she took the policy  out, and Allianz vet, who 
says its likely to be related. But I think the question that needs  to be answered is whether 
the condition which has now been diagnosed caused signs of lameness in F. Allianz  says it 
would have excluded  any condition causing  the clinical signs  of lameness if Miss G had 
correctly declared Fs history when she took out the policy. Miss Gs vet said the tests  were 
carried out because  F had signs of lameness.  The tests diagnosed the condition.  So it 
follows that the condition was causing signs of lameness. The claim was made for the costs 
of these tests. I think Allianz was entitled  to rely on the exclusion.  And it could fairly decline 
the claim for that reason.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5682415