K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Nationwide Building Society   mis-sold her and her husband, the late Mr B 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs B took out an unsecured personal loan in 1999  and bought  a PPI policy  at the 
same time. The PPI covered Mr B. Mr and Mrs B paid extra for the policy, which was added  
to their loan, and they paid interest on it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Bs complaint upheld  it. Nationwide disagrees and so   
Mrs Bs complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it didnt  need  to make sure it was 
right for them in their circumstances.  But it did need to give them  enough clear  information 
about the policy for them to be able to make  that decision  themselves  in an informed way.
The policy Nationwide says Mr and Mrs B bought  excluded accident  and sickness cover for 
any medical condition  or disease Mr B had before they bought  it. Mrs B told our adjudicator  
Mr B had been diagnosed  with a medical  condition in 1956.
I have very little information  about Mr Bs medical  condition. But I dont have any reason to 
doubt what Mrs B told our adjudicator. She didnt say anything about  Mr Bs medical 
condition when she first made  her complaint, but I think this is understandable. Partly,  it 
seems Mrs B may not have remembered the loan was joint  which  is not surprising given 
how long ago things  happened,  especially  bearing in mind  that, sadly,  her husband has died.  
And her complaint is being  led by a claims management company and an insolvency 
practitioner, so her involvement in it may have been quite limited.
Ive got very few documents from the time of the sale. But I havent seen anything  to make 
me think the exclusion for known medical  conditions  was clearly brought  to Mr and Mrs Bs 
attention by Nationwide, as it shouldve  been.  And, on balance, I think this wouldve mattered 
to Mr B. From what Mrs B says,  hed had the condition   which  is an ongoing one and can 
be serious (although  I dont know if it was in Mr Bs case)  for many years when he bought  
the PPI and so I think its likely he wouldnt have gone ahead with the PPI if hed known he 
wouldnt be covered  for it.
So I think Mr and Mrs B lost out because of what  Nationwide did wrong  and it should  put 
things right.
putting things right
Mr and Mrs B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
Ref: DRN59133762been. They  paid more than they shouldve each month and it cost them more  to repay the 
loan than it wouldve. So Mrs B and the estate  of Mr B need to get back  the extra theyve 
paid.
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mrs B and the estate  of Mr B the difference  between what  they 
paid each month on the loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mrs B and the estate  of Mr B the difference  between what  it cost to 
pay off the loan and what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs B paid from when they paid it 
until Mrs B and the estate of Mr B get it back.  The rate of interest is 8% a year from 
then on.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes Mrs B and his estate. I understand Nationwide  has 
refunded Mrs B and the estate of Mr B for the premiums Mr B paid continued to pay for the 
policy after hed retired and was no longer entitled  to claim on it. Nationwide  can deduct  this 
amount from what it owes Mrs B and the estate of Mr B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Nationwide  to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint  and direct  Nationwide Building 
Society to put things  right as Ive set out above.
I understand Mrs B is in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). Its Mrs Bs responsibility 
to comply with the terms of the IVA. But I should say the IVA practitioner  has written  to say it 
has an interest in this complaint and asking for any compensation Mrs B gets for the mis-
sale of the PPI to be paid directly to it for the benefit  of the arrangement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5913376