K822xcomplaint
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs B were  the victim  of a sophisticated fraud  directed at an account  
they hold with Santander UK Plc. They complain that Santander didnt treat them  fairly, and 
that it has not been able to explain how the fraud was possible. 
background 
Mr and Mrs B hold a current account  with Santander. In March 2018, a third party phoned 
Santander and was able to impersonate  Mr B. The third party then visited  a Santander  
branch and was able to withdraw  £300  from Mr and Mrs Bs joint account.  The third party  
was also able to register a claim under the direct  debit guarantee scheme in respect of that 
months mortgage payment.
The fraud came to light shortly afterwards,  when Mrs B spotted  the activity  on their account 
and made  Santander aware.
I understand both sides are now in agreement that the third party  involved was a fraudster, 
and that Mr and Mrs B were the victims of a cruel fraud. I will refer throughout to the third 
party as the fraudster.
Santander restored  the fraudulently withdrawn funds within  48 hours.  However, Mr and 
Mrs B remained extremely  unhappy. They explained  about  the considerable distress,  upset 
and inconvenience  they had suffered. They said they remained concerned  about  the safety, 
security and fraud protection Santander had in place. Mr and Mrs B were dissatisfied with 
the explanations Santander  had provided, in particular the contradictory information they had 
been given. They said they wanted a formal explanation of how this had happened, what 
Santander had done about it, a guarantee that it would never happen again and 
compensation.
In its final response letter,  Santander  apologised for the distress  Mr and Mrs B had been 
caused. It offered  compensation  of £200, which Mr and Mrs B did not accept. After Mr and 
Mrs B had referred their complaint to this service, Santander increased its offer of settlement 
to a total of £500. Mr and Mrs B didnt want to accept this settlement.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. She acknowledged  the concerns 
Mr and Mrs B had raised. She said she appreciated how worried  this must have made them  
about the security  of their account,  and the inconvenience they had been caused. And the 
investigator considered  the responses Santander  had provided  to Mr and Mrs B were  
contradictory, incomplete and did not fully explain how the fraud had occurred. The 
investigator said shed  thought about  what a fair offer of compensation would be, taking all of 
these factors into account. She considered that, taking everything into account, Santanders 
most recent offer was fair.
Mr and Mrs B did not agree. They pointed out further errors in the information  provided by 
Santander. They said they didnt accept Santanders investigation and said the contradictory 
information it had provided gave them greater  concern that the business  was covering up 
what had really happened.  
Our investigator said she sympathised  but explained that she was unable to establish 
exactly how the fraud had been  perpetrated.  She said this was often not possible. But she 
Ref: DRN57330902remained of the opinion that Santanders offer of compensation was fair in the 
circumstances. So I have  been asked to reach a final decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I want to clearly acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B have been the victim of a 
cruel and targeted fraud.  The principal cause  of all that happened here has been  the actions 
of the fraudster. Mr and Mrs B have  thoroughly  detailed the extent of the impact this had on 
them both.  The initial financial loss was redressed  by Santander, but the wider  impact on 
Mr and Mrs B is less easily  repaired.
Mr and Mrs B acted  quickly  to protect themselves when they realised something  was wrong. 
They were  vigilant and took the right steps to prevent further  loss. They  are not at fault in 
what happened. Despite this, Mr and Mrs B have been left with the emotional consequences  
of the fraudsters actions,  as well as considerable inconvenience.
I dont underestimate  Mr and Mrs Bs distress, concern and frustration. They have detailed 
the consequences and the impact of everything  that happened. It is clear to me that the 
episode has had a considerable effect on them. Understandably, they want  compensation 
for this and they would  like answers from Santander.
But any award I can make for distress  or inconvenience is limited to the extent of the impact 
that resulted from what the financial business  did or didnt do. I cannot make any award to 
recognise the impact  of criminal actions  taken by another party, such  as the fraudster.  And 
while in some cases I may be able to determine what actually caused  the issue  at the heart 
of the complaint, that will often not be the case.  I do not have  the powers to conduct a 
criminal investigation into the actions of a fraudster,  or to cross-examine witnesses for 
example.
These considerations mean I am considerably restricted  in the scope of what  I can do in a 
situation like this. 
Our investigator has obtained  information from both sides about  the circumstances 
surrounding the fraud. She has explained that in many situations such as this one, it may not 
ultimately be possible to establish exactly how a fraud was committed. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service will often not be best placed  to determine such a question. 
I do not know what success, if any, the Police might have had in apprehending the 
perpetrator or in establishing what took place. Without the possibility of interviewing the 
fraudster, I cannot see that the questions Mr and Mrs B want  answered  can be fully 
resolved. Based on what we do know, it seems to me that the fraudster was somehow able 
to gain sufficient  information to successfully  pass the security checks in place. Doing so 
meant he was able to transact on Mr and Mrs Bs account. The fraudsters actions required 
multiple steps to be taken  successfully in order to succeed. But beyond  that I am simply not 
in a position to add much to what the investigator  has already said on this point.
Santander says it has put additional protection in place on Mr and Mrs Bs account since the 
event. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B would like Santander to guarantee that such a fraud 
will never again be possible  for them, or for other customers. That is an entirely natural 
Ref: DRN57330903request. And Santander does have a responsibility to learn from fraudulent activity and make 
changes to its processes  and procedures to mitigate the risk of fraud. 
Unfortunately, the techniques and methods used by criminals  to defraud people  are 
constantly adapting and evolving to work around measures that banks bring in to protect  
customers. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to expect Santander to be able to 
completely eliminate the risk of fraud, or to find it at fault for not being able to do so.
Ive considered everything both sides have provided, including  taking careful account of the 
significant worry, concern  and upset Mr and Mrs B have detailed.  It is clear to me how 
strongly they feel about Santanders part in these events, and what an impact this episode  
continues to have  on them.
No award of money I could make would change  what has already happened, or remove  the 
impact that Mr and Mrs B have  already felt. That has happened and cannot be removed. 
Rather, I must determine  what  I find to be a fair award given all of the circumstances. Having 
reviewed all that Mr and Mrs B have said, I agree with the investigator that the total sum of 
£500 Santander has offered to pay Mr and Mrs B is a fair and reasonable sum - given what I 
know of the circumstances. Based on the evidence  available to me, it is in line with the 
award I would  make.
Saying that, I still know that is a much  lower sum than Mr and Mrs B would like. And I know  
they would  like to know exactly how the fraudster was able to do what he did. But Ive said 
above, I am unable to establish how this fraud was effected, and I can only make an award 
in respect of distress or inconvenience  that I can establish was caused by the bank.  On 
balance, I consider Santanders  offer of settlement is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I do not make  any further award 
against Santander UK Plc, beyond what it has already offered to pay Mr and Mrs B. 
If Mr and Mrs B decide to accept my final decision,  Santander UK Plc should pay Mr and 
Mrs B any remaining unpaid  balance  from the £500 compensation it has offered them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 August  2020.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5733090