K820x#14complaint
Mr M, as a representative of the late Mr W, complains about the fund based commission  
charges National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) took from Mr Ws pension  plan, despite 
not providing any ongoing service.  He wants the charges refunded with interest added.
background
Mr W took out a self-invested  personal  pension (SIPP) with a provider in 2007  using an 
adviser from NatWest. The SIPP was used to accept transfers  from two existing pensions as 
well as new regular monthly  contributions.  In October 2017  Mr W appointed a new adviser 
who made him aware of a 0.65% adviser  charge which hed been paying.  He contacted 
NatWest to explain that, as hed not received on-going advice, he wanted NatWest to refund 
him for the payments it had received. The adviser  charge  was subsequently re-directed to 
his new adviser.
NatWest said that it had stopped providing  financial advice in 2012. It said the original 
illustrations for the SIPP confirmed the payment of fund based commission  which  had been 
linked to Mr Ws monthly contributions.  It said the commission was to be taken over the first 
10 years  of the plan and had the effect of reducing  the initial amount paid in charges to the 
provider by spreading out the payments.  Although this charge was renamed  as an 
ongoing  adviser  charge  following the Retail Distribution Review  (RDR) of 2013, NatWest  
said the fund based commission referred  to charges for advice given at the point of sale.  
Therefore it wasnt prepared to refund those charges  which were applied  to Mr Ws SIPP.
Mr W said the charges hadnt been discussed  with him in 2007,  and said if hed been made 
aware he wouldnt have  gone ahead because  he thought  the charges were  
disproportionate  to the advice he received. But, having received a copy  of the information  
relating to the advice, Mr W also decided to complain about  the amount  that was charged for 
the two transfers  as well as the overall suitability of the original advice. In particular he 
questioned the retirement  age that had been  used on his plan and also the level of risk 
involved in the funds that were used  when compared to his attitude  to risk. 
But NatWest  said it was satisfied the advice was suitable and all the relevant information, 
including risk warnings,  had been  provided.  It said that if Mr W had concerns over the 
information it would have expected him to query  it at the time. It did apologise for the delay in 
resolving his complaint  and paid Mr W £250  for the inconvenience it had caused.
Mr W decided  he didnt wish to pursue the question of the suitability of the advice, but he 
remained unhappy about the on-going or fund based commission charge. So he brought his 
complaint to us making the following points:
NatWest took initial  and fund based  commission charges from his plan without  
providing any ongoing services. This wasnt explained to Mr W at the time of the 
advice.
NatWest said it would take the fund based  commission for 10 years but there  was no 
evidence this was the case.  The charge  appeared  to be open-ended.
There was no evidence that the charges had been  discussed with Mr W or that hed 
been provided with details  of them  apart  from the illustrations  which Mr W said 
were confusing.  He  didnt believe  the charges hadnt been  made  clear  or explicitly  
disclosed. 
Ref: DRN53282542NatWest ceased  offering financial  advice in 2012  and didnt contact Mr W to advise  
him of that matter.  It hadnt contacted him at all following its advice in 2007. 
Unfortunately Mr W sadly passed away whilst  his complaint was being considered. But his 
representative, Mr M, continued with the complaint on his behalf.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. He thought  
Mr W had been made  aware that he would have to pay fund based commission.  He said,  
prior to RDR, it was common for charges to be paid over the lifetime  of a product, and the 
0.65% NatWest charged seemed  broadly  in range  of what was being applied at the time.  
The adjudicator also said that NatWest was entitled to continue  to receive commission  after 
RDR and wasnt obliged  to provide  any on-going service to Mr W regardless of when it 
stopped offering advice.
Mr M disagreed. He made  the following points:
The fund based commission wasnt  properly  disclosed. It wasnt mentioned in the 
reasons why letter and it wasnt  disclosed except for within an illustration. 
He thought it should have been  expressed  as a monetary amount to give Mr W 
some indication  of the amounts involved. He thought that if Mr W had been aware of 
the monetary  equivalent  he would have  raised  questions before proceeding with an 
application and may have  decided  not to go ahead on that basis.
He believed the link to the advice  was broken after NatWest pulled out of the advice 
market following the RDR. So he believed a refund of charges  at least after this date 
should be considered. 
He thought the matter of complex charges  and the poor disclosure  of them  ought  to 
be raised with the regulator to help other (less  aware) consumers.
He asked for the complaint to be looked  at again so its been  passed to me for a review. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. I was sorry to learn that 
Mr W had passed away during the course  of this investigation and so I can appreciate  this 
wouldnt have been the outcome Mr M would have  wanted  for the late Mr Ws complaint  so 
Ill explain  my reasoning.
Mr W had also complained about  the suitability  of the advice that he was given to transfer his 
existing pension plans  into the SIPP. But before he brought his complaint to us he accepted 
NatWests response and didnt want to pursue  that matter any further. 
So what  Im left to consider here is the complaint about the ongoing charge  and lack of 
advice Mr W received  in lieu of the charge   which NatWest  has taken from his plan since 
inception.
Its important to consider  the various methods of remuneration  in place at the time of 
NatWests original advice.  Before RDR firms generally deducted their costs in the form of 
commission. This commission  could be taken up front at the time of the transaction  or could 
be spread  over a number of years mainly to encourage the provision of longer term, more  
affordable business  which  might  otherwise  be stopped early. It was also possible to combine 
the two forms of commission. In Mr Ws case taking the equivalent of all his regular 
Ref: DRN53282543premiums for the first few years would  have meant his plan was significantly reduced in 
value. But taking some  of that premium over the term of the plan would have allowed more 
of his premiums to be invested and therefore  potentially grow in value, so NatWests 
approach to taking  fund based commission sounds reasonable in the circumstances.   
But, importantly, such ongoing  payments  werent  always linked to the provision of other 
services. It depended on the specific agreement between the parties. The provision of 
ongoing advice  could be included in these ongoing  commission payments or be paid for 
separately. 
In this case I dont think  the documentation  from the time suggests the fund based  
commission was linked  to the provision of future  advice. NatWest could have, alternatively, 
been paid a higher initial  commission  with no ongoing payments, but here there was a 
combination of initial and ongoing commission. 
And that position  is outlined by the illustration that was provided for Mr W which   under the 
section headed  what are the charges confirmed that well take 2.5% of each monthly 
payment from your plan..This total charge  is made up of a number of parts.(including)  a 
fund based commission  charge. 
So I think Mr W was made aware that there would be charges associated with the new plan 
and that one of them  was a fund based  commission. And on the following page of the 
illustration the fund based commission  charge was noted as being  0.65% - regardless of the 
investment funds used.
Mr M says the number of illustrations provided would have made  it difficult  to pick out the 
fund based charge and would have been confusing  even to someone like Mr W who had 
been a forensic  accountant and used to dealing with numbers. But I think  the volume  of 
illustrations simply  reflected the different regular monthly premiums  that were  being 
considered. The fund based  commission charge remained constant throughout all the 
illustrations and Im satisfied that Mr W was made aware of its existence.
Mr M says the illustrations dont prove that the fund based commission was discussed or 
that Mr W was aware of what it was for and how long it would continue for. He says theres 
no way for Mr W to have known how much these  costs  might amount to. I appreciate theres 
no evidence to confirm  what Mr W and the adviser did discuss  during their meeting or that 
the purpose of the commission was fully explained. But I have seen  that Mr W was made  
aware of the fund based commission and I think he could have questioned its relevance  at 
the time if he wasnt sure what it was for. 
But I havent seen  any persuasive evidence to show that the provision of future advice was 
built into the original  charging structure,  so I dont think  Mr W would have expected that to be 
the case. I think he was made aware  of the costs  that would apply to his plan regardless of 
whether he thought future advice was included as an additional service.  So I dont agree that 
he wouldnt  have taken  out the plan if hed been made more fully aware of the fund based 
commission.   
Mr M has said that, as a practising adviser  from that time, he thought it was good practice to 
set out the charges in monetary amounts  as well as a percentage,  so that consumers  could 
understand the impact such amounts might have on the overall returns. He also thought it 
Ref: DRN53282544was unfair  for advice  to be linked to a charge which  could vary, with no overall limit, 
depending on the value of the fund. 
And I can understand Mr Ms frustration about  what  he considers to be the unfairness  of 
these historic costs. But, although Mr M would  have liked the costs  to have been more  
clearly explained   and set out in other formats, its not for me to tell a business how it 
should set out its costs,  charges and services, as long as its done so in accordance  with 
regulatory requirements. And here I think NatWest has set out its costs  as required so I cant 
safely say its done anything wrong.  I appreciate  Mr M would have like NatWest  to have 
done more but that doesnt  meant it acted unfairly  or didnt adhere to the regulations in force 
at the time. 
In addition, I note that the charge varied according to the size of the fund, so I think it was 
reasonable for the charge to be set out as a percentage  so as not to be misleading. Had the 
charge been set out as a monetary amount it wouldnt have been correct  in reflecting 
subsequent fund based commission charges, so I think in terms of providing  accurate on-
going information it was reasonable for NatWest to express the cost as a percentage. 
Mr M has cited NatWests  decision to stop offering financial advice in late 2012 as being a 
reason for the link to previous charges which allowed them to be continued  under  RDR, to 
have been broken. So he says that should  at least have been  when the fund based 
commission charge ought  to have stopped.  He noted that the provider renamed the charge 
as an ongoing-adviser  charge at this point. 
But, as Ive said above, the ongoing  charge wasnt for the provision of financial advice. So I 
dont think that those charges should  be refunded because NatWest stopped providing that 
service. NatWest took the decision in 2013 to stop giving financial advice. That was its own 
commercial decision which it was entitled  to make.  The RDR didnt prevent firms who had 
set up policies prior to 2013 from continuing  to receive ongoing commission.
I have seen reference to the fact that the fund based commission  charge might have been 
payable for the first 10 years of the plan. And Mr M has asked  if NatWest  would have 
continued with the charge beyond 10 years  if it hadnt been  transferred to his business as an 
on-going adviser  charge. But theres  no evidence, within the information available,  to show  
that the charge was supposed  to last for 10 years. In the reference to fund based  
commission within the illustration reference is only made to the amount involved.  
And Ive seen the SIPP providers own terms and conditions which  stated where fund-based 
commission applies to your plan,  this charge will apply. This is calculated  on the value of 
your plan, other than those investments  for which this charge is specifically excluded, such  
as property. It is calculated daily and deducted in monthly instalments. The rate of this 
charge may change. We will tell you if it alters. 
So I think these terms and conditions  did demonstrate that fund based commission was a 
charge that could  be imposed, and within its illustrations  NatWest confirmed it was being 
applied in Mr Ws case. I havent seen any evidence to show  that NatWest  was obliged  to 
stop charges after 10 years and the information that was provided to Mr W didnt make any 
reference to the length  of time the charges would be applied  for. 
Mr M said that if Mr W had known  NatWest had stopped providing advice he could have 
sought advice  elsewhere and stopped the ongoing  fees being paid. And I accept that he may 
have done that, but it would have involved further costs.  And as Mr W didnt request any 
advice at that stage  I dont think  it necessarily follows  he would have automatically reviewed 
Ref: DRN53282545or moved  his funds  until advice was required. When Mr W approached Mr M for financial 
advice this situation came to light and Mr W instigated his complaint, so I dont think  he 
missed an opportunity to take further  free advice or to stop the on-going fees being paid.
Ive seen that Mr W was paid £250 for the delay in answering his complaint and any 
inconvenience this caused. I think that was a fair and reasonable payment in the 
circumstances and Im not going  to ask NatWest  to do anymore.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold the late Mr Ws complaint, in as much  as I think  
National Westminster Bank Plcs  payment was a fair and reasonable resolution in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, as Mr Ws 
representative, to accept or reject my decision before  1 March 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5328254