K820x#14complaint
Miss K has complained  about  the buildings insurer, Aviva Insurance  Limited, for the block of 
flats where she holds the lease for a property. She thinks  its actions in respect of a claim 
caused her financial  loss.
background
In 2013 a leak was found within  the block of flats and the management company, which is 
also the policyholder for the buildings  insurance,  made a claim  to Aviva.  Aviva  accepted  the 
claim. During its claim investigations defects were found with the building as a whole. The 
building had been issued with a warranty  and the insurer for that became involved. From 
there the matter became protracted.
Miss K had a flat within  the block which she let out. It was felt that her flat needed  to be 
stripped and to allow for that to be done her tenants  left in November 2013. The flat 
remained stripped  after that and Miss K wasnt able to reinstate it for the next few years. She 
was  eventually able to do this work and the flat was re-let  in March  2017.
Miss K felt she could  reasonably have been  allowed to reinstate her flat much earlier.  
Another flat holder had been given leave  to do so. But despite  that authority being  granted  
Miss K hadnt been authorised to complete repairs until much later when she had specifically  
asked. 
Aviva said it would pay Miss K six months lost rent from November 2013 until May 2014. It 
said that it wouldnt pay more as if there hadnt  been the other building defects,  that period 
would have been sufficient for its insured repairs to be carried out.
Miss K was dissatisfied;  not only did she feel that Aviva could have let her repair her flat 
sooner, she felt it was down to it that it had been  stripped out in the first place which really 
hadnt been necessary. She complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint and it was passed to me. I asked Aviva to 
provide further  information as it wasnt clear if it had entered  into a contract  for repair of 
Miss Ks property or what it had told the management  company  in the summer 2013 about 
the property needing vacating  to be stripped, or what  its involvement  had been  in putting 
works on hold in late 2013 and early 2014. Aviva couldnt provide any further information.
I reviewed the matter and told both Aviva and Miss K that:
Having seen what  evidence there is I think that in all likelihood there were some  failures in 
this instance (by Aviva)  that either led to or at least contributed to the delay in Miss Ks flat 
being reinstated. It is an odd scenario as rarely would  I countenance  repairs when there  is a 
known water ingress issue outstanding. But in this case, as the water issue is still 
outstanding but hasnt  caused any further  issues, we know  doing this work  did mitigate 
further loss. And Aviva  had been  prepared  to agree to taking this step for another  flat owner 
long before an agreement was reached  with Miss K. But I also appreciate that the 
involvement of the management company and the complication of the building  defects  was 
always going to cause some issues. I think though that its Miss K that has lost out in all this 
and suffered substantial  financial  loss. I think Aviva  reasonably needs to make up for some 
of that.
Ref: DRN58804072The flat was let again in March 2017, some 33 months  after the period for lost rent that Aviva 
was prepared to cover under the policy ended. The monthly rental  income was £650. I think  
a fair settlement  for this is for Aviva  to pay £10,750  plus interest*. That figure is half of the 
rent lost during that time and it seems  fair to me to say interest  should  be applied on that 
sum from 1 September 2015,  which  is roughly halfway through  the loss period. 
I think Miss K has been caused some upset  too. I think £500 fairly reflects  that likely caused 
by Aviva.
Aviva accepted my findings. Miss K said she still felt it should  pay over a longer term. But 
she also said there had been other losses too in terms of council tax, property charges and 
replacement costs for some blinds  and a cooker. I reviewed the situation again and have 
summarised here what I told both parties:
I wasnt minded to make Aviva  pay for service  charges or ground rent. These  sums  
would likely usually be paid by Miss K from rent received  and Id said already what  
I thought Aviva was liable for in that respect.
But having accepted that Aviva had some  liability for lost rental income,  it seemed to me 
to follow  that it had liability for some council tax charges as well, which Miss K had been 
able to show her tenants would  usually  pay. Looking at the evidence  Miss K provided I 
felt that a payment of £2,406.17, plus interest from 1 September  2015 until settlement is 
made, reasonably  compensated  her for Avivas  liability for that loss.
I asked Aviva to consider Miss Ks reported loss regarding the blinds and cooker. Aviva 
said it would forego any consideration of these  items and offer to pay half of the cost 
Miss K had asked  for. I felt that was fair and explained to Miss K that as Aviva strictly 
had the right to investigate this loss, it offering to pay half without that was reasonable. 
I also said it was fair for interest  on the rental  loss to be applied only until 28 March 2019 
which was the date Aviva had offered  to pay this sum.
Aviva accepted my findings. Miss K did not. She felt that Aviva had caused  all of her loss but 
that if that wasnt the case she wanted to find out who else was responsible, if they were,  
before deciding to accept  any finding  that limited Avivas liability.  Our investigator explained 
to Miss K that we can only look at Avivas  liability  and that we wouldnt hold our assessment 
whilst other  complaints about other  parties  were considered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Miss K feels about  this. But I have to assess a complaint based on 
the evidence before me. And I can only focus on the liability of the respondent to a 
complaint, in this case Aviva. 
For me to find that an insurer is liable  I have to see that they failed their policyholder in some 
way. Sometimes claims take time through no fault of an insurer.  And it is usually the case  
that claims which involve  management companies and/or a second insurer,  do become 
protracted. That doesnt necessarily mean that every day of delay  is due to someones fault.  
There are some key things during the course of this claim  that Aviva  hasnt satisfied  me it 
handled fairly. And there is also the key issue of authorising  repairs,  which I think it could 
have done earlier.  Its not possible to say with any certainty though  exactly  how much  delay 
Ref: DRN58804073or loss these  issues caused. Or whether there  were  perhaps other things occurring 
simultaneously that might  mean these issues didnt  actually  cause  any loss. This complaint 
isnt clear cut and Im certainly not convinced it would  be fair to say that Aviva caused the 
whole three  and a half year period  of loss that occurred when Miss Ks flat was vacated and 
left empty. But I am satisfied it at least contributed to that situation and that it should look to 
compensate Miss K for that, as previously  set out, which  it has agreed to do.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Miss K:
£10,750, plus 8% simple interest  from 1 September  2015  until 28 March 2019 (when it 
agreed to pay this sum), as compensation for lost rent.
£2,406.17,  plus 8% simple interest from 1 September 2015 until settlement is made,  as 
compensation for council tax paid.
£440 towards replacement blinds and a cooker.
£500 compensation.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
* If Aviva Insurance Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due 
to Miss K, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Miss K a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5880407