K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained about the decision  by Unum Ltd to decline her claim under her 
employers group income protection insurance  policy.
background
Mrs R was employed in an administrative role and was a member of her employers group 
income protection insurance policy, held with Unum. The policy would pay a monthly benefit, 
after a waiting period of 26 weeks, in the event that Mrs R was unable to perform her 
occupation due to illness or injury.
In August  2017,  Mrs R stopped working  due to work-related stress brought on by perceived  
bullying and harassment by her manager. She remained off work and eventually  made  a 
claim under the policy. 
After obtaining  further evidence, including  Mrs Rs medical records,  Unum declined the 
claim. It considered that Mrs R wasnt so ill that she was unable to perform  her occupation.
Mrs R appealed against Unums decision.  She provided supporting  letters from her employer 
and her GP.
Unum continued  to decline the claim. It considered that Mrs R still hadnt  shown she met the 
eligibility criteria  for benefit  to be paid.
Mrs R was unhappy at Unums decision. She referred her complaint  to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Unum had acted  fairly.
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators findings.  She considered that Unum had taken a 
simplistic view of workplace stress in that it apparently believed  if she either agreed to 
mediation or to swap job roles then she would immediately be able to return to work. She 
disputed that her symptoms could  be resolved  as easily as this.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The issue  I need to determine is whether Mrs R was prevented by illness from performing 
the material and substantial duties of her occupation throughout the 26-week waiting period 
(in other words, from August 2017  until at least February 2018). I should point out that this 
means the crucial  test is not whether she was unable to do her particular job for her 
particular employer but rather whether she was medically prevented  from carrying out the 
generic role.
The evidence shows that Mrs R visited her GP in August 2017  complaining  of stress at work. 
She said shed been  struggling  to deal with her manager at work and had started a 
Ref: DRN51853272grievance procedure.  This had caused her to feel anxious and she felt she needed time off 
work while the issue was being sorted  out. The GP certified  her as unfit to work due to work-
related stress. 
Mrs R continued to consult her GP on a more-or-less monthly basis,  either  in person or over 
the telephone. She reported that the work dispute was ongoing and that she continued to 
experience anxiety symptoms. The GP continued  to certify her as unfit to work and 
prescribed beta-blockers to help reduce  Mrs Rs reported palpitations.
In November 2017, Mrs R was assessed by her employers occupational  health adviser who 
concluded she was unfit to return to work  due to the ongoing work issues which had still not 
resolved.
Also in November 2017, Mrs R completed  her claim form in which she described  her anxiety 
symptoms and said that she couldnt  return to work  until her grievance issues  had been 
resolved.
After Unums initial decline  of her claim, Mrs R provided a letter from her employer 
confirming it was still investigating her workplace concerns  and that Mrs Rs union 
representative was now involved. She also provided  a letter  from her GP in support of her 
claim and which described  the anxiety  symptoms from which  she suffered.
Unums company medical officer (CMO), who is a qualified psychiatrist, examined the 
evidence. He noted that Mrs Rs symptoms, such as anxiety and palpitations, were  
occasional rather than constant and that they didnt impact her unduly on a day-to-day basis  
when away from the stress situation.  As a result, Mrs R was able to perform normal tasks, 
such as look after her children, and was able to go on a family holiday.  The advice and 
medication shed  received  from her GP wasnt suggestive  of a significant  mental  illness; she 
hadnt, for example, been referred onwards to any specialist practitioner.  In the CMOs view, 
while Mrs R was clearly suffering from work-related stress, she was not suffering from a 
mental illness of such significance that it would  prevent her from performing her role.
I agree  with Unums  CMO. The evidence doesnt suggest that Mrs R was medically impaired  
from carrying out her generic role. It seems the barrier to her returning to work was the 
unresolved work dispute. While the ongoing  dispute meant she continued on occasion to 
experience anxiety symptoms which stopped her returning to her specific role, I consider this 
to be an employer/employee issue rather than a medical issue.  I consider it was reasonable 
for Unum to decline her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Ref: DRN51853273David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5185327