K821x#15complaint
Mr M1 has complained about his motor finance loan with First Response  Finance Ltd. The 
complaint has been brought  on Mr M1s behalf by his brother, Mr M2. The complaint is that 
First Response:
mis-sold the loan to Mr M1 in 2016;
breached Mr M1s personal  data;
failed to act on a third party authority appointing Mr M2 as Mr M1s  representative.
background
I have kept the details  of what has happened here deliberately vague,  in order  to preserve 
Mr M1s  anonymity. The investigator  who looked  at the complaint set out the timeline of 
events in a detailed letter dated 24 September 2019, a copy of which both parties  have 
received. Consequently  I dont need  to repeat  the details here.
Mr M1 has another  complaint against a different business, on which I have also issued a 
decision. I have  reviewed both files in tandem as there is some relevant overlap with the 
timeline of events on this complaint.
The complaint can be summarised briefly.  In September  2016 Mr M1 entered into a motor 
finance agreement  with First Response. He borrowed £3,850 over a period of 48 months,  at 
an APR of 42.9% and a monthly  repayment  of £152.92.
The loan agreement  contained rights of termination  where, provided  Mr M1 had paid at least  
50% of the amount due under the loan agreement, he could return the vehicle, and would  
not have to pay any more, if he had taken  reasonable  care of it.
On 10 September  2018 Mr M2 wrote  to First Response. He enclosed  a form of authority 
signed by Mr M1 giving  authority to Mr M2 to represent him. The letter explained  that Mr M1 
was at that time unable to deal with his affairs (for reasons which  I do not need  to set out 
here) and was no longer able to afford  the loan. Mr M2 asked First Response  what  it wanted 
to do. He said the vehicle  could be collected,  by arrangement. 
Mr M2 also complained that the loan had been  mis-sold, claiming  that Mr M1 would not have  
agreed to it if he had been made  aware  of the ridiculous amount  of interest charged by First 
Response.
First Responses records show that the letter was logged on its system  on 
19 September 2018. First Response  didnt provide any substantive  reply,  but instead  its 
records show that there were several  General Contact letters sent and attempts to contact  
Mr M1. 
Mr M2 wrote  two further letters chasing First Response for its answer about what  it wanted 
to do with the vehicle. First Response continued  to attempt to contact Mr M1.
On 23 October 2018 First Response wrote  to Mr M1 saying that it was unable  to accept a 
complaint from a third party with whom we have no authority to discuss  your account.
Ref: DRN54262412On 5 December  2018 First Response finally took note that Mr M1 was unavailable. It took 
steps to contact several outside agencies in an attempt to locate  him and was eventually 
given the details of where  he was.
In the meantime, in the absence of any substantive response, Mr M2 submitted a complaint 
to us on behalf of his brother.
It wasnt until 1 April 2019 that First Response issued its final response letter.
First Response reiterated that it couldnt  investigate  a complaint submitted by a third party 
without Mr M1s authority.  First Response disputed  it had breached data protection  or that 
the loan had been mis-sold. 
First Response also said that it couldnt simply cancel the finance agreement without 
following the correct  process. First Response said it had written  to Mr M1 on 
14 December 2018 explaining that there  was the option of voluntary termination (VT) and 
asked Mr M1 to telephone  or write to it to discuss these options.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He was satisfied that the loan hadnt been  mis-sold. 
He was also not persuaded that First Response had breached  Mr M1s personal data. 
But the investigator was satisfied that First Response  had received  the authority from Mr M1 
in September  2018 and so should  have acted on it at the time. He thought  this part of the 
complaint should  be upheld  and asked First Response to do the following:
arrange to collect the vehicle;
remove any adverse information  on Mr M1s credit file since  10 September 2018;
pay Mr M1 £200 compensation for trouble  and upset.
Mr M1 accepted the investigators findings.
First Response, however, didnt agree. It said that although it had received the letter  of 10 
September 2018 at one office,  it then sent this by post to a different  office,  but for some  
reason it never arrived and wasnt dealt with. First Response disagreed with the 
investigators assumption that, although the letter said it was enclosing Mr M1s authority, 
that that was actually  enclosed. 
First Response wondered  why the authority was dated May 2018, yet wasnt  sent to it until 
September 2018. First Response also questioned why Mr M2 hadnt sent another  copy of 
the authority once  it had written to Mr M1 saying it couldnt look at the complaint without 
authority.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
mis-sale of the loan: Ive looked  at everything Mr M2 has said about this, but Im satisfied 
the loan wasnt  mis-sold.  The crux of Mr M2s argument is that, if Mr M1 had known how 
high the interest  rate was (42.9% APR),  he would  never have agreed  to borrow the money.
Ref: DRN54262413But Ive listened  to all the calls between Mr M1 and First Response  at the point of sale, and 
Im satisfied the APR was clearly explained  to Mr M1. There was a full discussion around 
affordability and about  past financial difficulties which Mr M1 explained had arisen due to 
bereavements in 2012 and 2013.  Mr M1 clarified that the depression  hed suffered at the 
time was now in the past and that he was well.
There is no suggestion during any of these  calls that Mr M1 lacked any ability  to understand 
the nature  and effect of the contract he was entering  into. He engaged  fully with 
First Responses agents during the calls, answering  questions and raising points which  he 
wanted them  to answer too. I am satisfied  Mr M1 was not misled about any of the terms of 
the loan agreement.
Im also satisfied that the loan agreement sets out clearly the APR,  the amount borrowed,  
the monthly repayments, the loan term and the total repayments due. In the circumstances, 
Im satisfied that Mr M1 was made  fully aware  at the point of sale what  the APR was and the 
full cost of the loan.
I am not upholding  this part of the complaint.
third party authority:   Ive noted  what First Response has said about this  that it accepts it 
received the letter from Mr M2 dated  10 September 2018, and subsequently lost it when it 
forwarded it to another office (without  keeping a copy of it).  I find First Responses  
suggestion that it cant assume this letter  to have contained the third party authority 
(because it had lost it) to be specious  and self-serving. Mr M2 says he sent the authority, 
and I accept his version  of events.
When Mr M2 chased a reply from First Response, he wasnt  told that it had lost his original 
letter and the enclosed authority. If he had been  told this, or that First Response was unable  
to assume hed ever sent the authority in the first place, Im satisfied Mr M2 would have sent 
a further copy of the authority.
First Response has queried why the authority was dated in May 2018, but wasnt  sent to it 
until September 2018. I believe  I can answer  that.
As I said above, I am also looking at another complaint brought  by Mr M1 against a different 
financial business, in which  he is also represented by Mr M2. I note from that case that there 
is on file a signed authority dated May 2018.  Mr M2 has explained  to us that it was around 
that time that he first became aware of difficulties Mr M1 was facing in relation  to financial 
and other  matters which required his intervention and assistance.  
Mr M1 was able to maintain payments under the First Response loan agreement, so there 
was no need for him, or Mr M2, to contact  First Response until September  2018, when it 
became obvious  Mr M1 would no longer be able to make the repayments.
So I find there is a perfectly plausible  explanation  for the authority being  dated May 2018 
and nothing sinister  in this, as First Response appears to be suggesting.
In all the circumstances, I am persuaded First Response received the authority sent with the 
letter dated  10 September 2018. Its unfortunate this was lost and so the complaint was not 
responded to, nor did First Response  act on the authority provided by Mr M1. I dont have 
any power to tell First Response what systems it should have in place. But it appears to me 
that First Responses system  where a letter is sent by post to another office  without 
Ref: DRN54262414keeping a copy of it  lacks safeguards to ensure that there is a backup of original 
documents sent in by customers.  
The implication for Mr M1 of First Response losing  his authority sent in September  2018 is 
that there  was no action  taken to recover the vehicle at the time. First Response  also 
defaulted the account.
Because Mr M1 had paid more than 50% of the loan agreement by September 2018, he was 
entitled to return  the vehicle.  This is what should  have  happened had First Response  not lost 
the letter sent on 10 September 2018.
I am upholding  this part of the complaint. I agree  that the redress  proposed by the 
investigator is fair and reasonable.
breach of personal data:  I note First Response made enquiries of third party  agencies  in 
late 2018 to ascertain Mr M1s whereabouts. If First Response had not lost Mr M1s signed 
authority sent by Mr M2 on 10 September 2018,  it would  not have needed to do this.
First Response was given  information  by an outside  agency about this. Given  that there 
appears to have been information provided to First Response  by a third party  which is not 
subject to the jurisdiction  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I think that overall any 
concerns about  whether or not Mr M1s data has been breached  and, if so, by whom, is a 
matter which  is more  suited to the Information  Commissioners Office. 
my final decision
My final decision is as follows:
I do not uphold  the complaint about  mis-sale  of the loan;
the complaint  about breach of data protection is better dealt  with by the Information 
Commissioner;
I uphold the complaint  about  the form of authority.
In full and final settlement  of the complaint, I order First Response Finance Ltd to do the 
following:
if it has not already  done so, make immediate  arrangements  to collect the vehicle 
pursuant to the rights  of termination  contained  in the finance  agreement dated 
1 September 2016;
amend Mr M1s credit file to remove any adverse information, defaults,  missed payments 
or other credit markers from 10 September 2018  to date;
pay Mr M1 compensation  for trouble and upset of £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54262415
Ref: DRN5426241