K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs C say they were mis-sold a mortgage  payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
by Pinnacle Insurance Plc. 
Background
In 1998, Pinnacle  sold Mr and Mrs C a PPI policy  to protect their joint mortgage repayments 
in the event of disability  or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs C disagreed,  so the case  
was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are significant gaps in the information  thats still available from 1998, which  isnt 
altogether surprising given how long ago that was. So, where Mr and Mrs C say the PPI was 
sold over the phone,  Pinnacle hasnt been  able to confirm if that was the case. Nor is it clear 
who was covered by the PPI.
I realise the lack of information is frustrating for Mr and Mrs C. Nevertheless, Ive assessed 
the case on the basis the PPI was sold over the phone, as Mr and Mrs C say, and that it 
covered them both. I think this places them in the most favourable position in terms of this 
complaint. 
I note Mr and Mrs C argue that they were pressured into buying the PPI. Unfortunately,  I 
dont have a copy  of, for example, a call recording or a sales  script that the adviser  might  
have been expected to follow  during  the call. Without any evidence  to support what  Mr and 
Mrs C have said, I cant fairly say that they were unduly pressured. 
Similarly, Ive nothing  to show Mr and Mrs C werent  aware they were being  sold PPI or that 
it was optional. 
Taking all of that into account,  I dont uphold the complaint on this basis.
If Pinnacle recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, it should  have taken  steps to ensure its 
advice was right for them. Regardless  of what steps it took, Ive no reason to think the PPI 
wasnt right for them in any case. 
For example, from what Mr and Mrs C have told us about their circumstances it seems 
theyd have been eligible for the cover. And I cant  see that theyd have been affected by any 
of the main things the policy excluded or limited cover for.
I gather  Mr and Mrs C were entitled to enhanced  sick pay from their respective employers for 
a time. But I gather the PPI benefits  were considerable and potentially paid out (on top of 
Ref: DRN53193072any existing work benefits) for up to 12 months for each successful claim. They covered 
unemployment too. The PPI would also have  allowed them  to retain  any savings they held or 
put them towards covering their other living costs if either of them wasnt  working. 
Considering Mr and Mrs C were  in a long-term  financial  commitment that was secured 
against their home, I think it likely theyd have  valued the extra  protection the PPI provided. 
Unfortunately, Pinnacle hasnt been able to confirm the monthly PPI premium.  Overall, Ive 
no grounds to think the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C. 
Pinnacle also needed to give Mr and Mrs C enough  information about the PPI to allow them  
to decide for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information  it 
gave them could  have  been better. But, for the same reasons that I dont think  the PPI was 
unsuitable for them, I dont think that better  information would  have affected  their decision to 
take it. I think theyd still have thought it provided a useful benefit at an affordable cost.
Taking all the available information  into account, I dont believe Mr and Mrs C were mis-sold  
the PPI. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs C suggest  they should  also be compensated for the commission they 
paid on their premiums. But the mortgage  itself was with a third-party and not Pinnacle.  That 
means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  
by the Financial Conduct Authority about  the handling of complaints about  the non-
disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept  
or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5319307