K820x#14complaint
Ms F is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc has recorded a claim she needed to make  
under her motor insurance policy.
background
Ms F has explained that in March 2018  a car parked  next to her vehicle caught fire. And this 
damaged her car. So, she needed to make  a claim under her motor  insurance policy for the 
loss.
AXA accepted Ms Fs claim, and the loss was settled. But Ms F raised concerns about the 
way the claim had been recorded by AXA. She noted this had been logged as a bonus 
disallowed (fault)  claim. But, she highlighted that she wasnt  to blame for the damage to her 
car. She said the loss was caused by either the driver of the third party  car that caught fire, 
or the manufacturer of the third party car. Ms F said recording  the claim as bonus disallowed 
meant this impacted her no claims discount and her insurance premium. And she had to pay 
the excess applicable on her policy. And she felt this wasnt  fair.
AXA said it had recorded the claim correctly. It said it had recorded the claim as a bonus  
disallowed claim not because Ms F was to blame  for the incident  but because it hadnt  
been able to recover its costs from a third party. Because Ms F disagreed  with this, she 
referred her complaint  to this service  for an independent review.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said he 
thought AXA had acted fairly. He said he could see AXA had attempted to recover  its outlay 
from a third party. But because it had been  unsuccessful AXA was right to record the claim 
as bonus disallowed.
Ms F disagreed with our investigators opinion. She said AXA had previously agreed it hadnt  
dealt with her claim and attempts to recover its outlay properly. Ms F said shed had to call 
AXA every day asking  it to do its job. And she remained of the opinion the way AXA had 
recorded her claim was unfair.
Because Ms F disagreed,  this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
It is important  to explain it isnt this services role to establish which party  is liable for an 
incident. So, I wont be making a decision as to who is responsible for the incident that 
caused damage to Ms Fs car. Instead, it is for this service to decide whether the insurer  has 
acted fairly  in the way it has recorded  the loss, based on the information provided, as well as 
the terms and conditions of the policy. Having looked at the evidence given to me, Im 
satisfied AXA did act fairly here. So, Im not requiring  it to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN57964382AXA has recorded the claim as a bonus disallowed (fault) claim. Its said this was because  it 
wasnt able to establish that a third party was responsible for the incident, or recover its 
outlay on the claim  from that third party. I can see that Ms Fs policy does  explain  
Ms F must give AXA full control of the claim. It says AXA may take over, defend  or settle the 
claim in Ms Fs name. And Im aware that Section H of Ms Fs policy  does explain that her no 
claims discount will be affected, if AXA isnt able to recover its outlay for a claim. 
I understand Ms F feels strongly that she wasnt responsible for the damage to her vehicle  
she thinks this should either be the driver  of the third party car, or the manufacturer  of that 
car. And this should mean the claim is recorded as a bonus allowed (non-fault) claim.  
But, its important to explain that the recording of a bonus disallowed  claim doesnt 
necessarily mean the policyholder is responsible, or to blame, for causing the loss. Usually, 
an insurer will record a claim  as bonus  disallowed where  its been  unable to attach  liability 
for an incident to a specific third party, or because  it has been unable  to recover any outlay 
its had from a third party.  And I can see this is what happened in this case.
I can see AXA has taken action to attempt to recover its outlay from the third party  drivers  
insurer. And it attempted to establish  whether the manufacturer  of the third party vehicle  was 
at fault for this incident. It contacted the manufacturer about liability  because of a recall 
that was in place for the third party car that caught  fire. But, it wasnt able to establish a link 
between the reason that model  of car was recalled, which was for a battery fault, and the 
reason the car set on fire.
I can see AXA did also seek advice on whether it would be able to pursue a third party for 
the loss. But, its legal  department didnt feel this was likely to be successful because  there  
wasnt sufficient evidence  that a third party  had been negligent. So, I think AXA did what it 
needed to do, to try and recover its outlay and ensure Ms Fs no claims discount  wasnt  
affected. But, in this case it wasnt possible to successfully do this. So, it needed to record 
the claim accurately   as a bonus disallowed claim.
I appreciate Ms F has said AXA had previously agreed it hadnt progressed her claim as it 
should have. I can see AXA did agree  that there was an issue of poor communication with 
Ms G and a lack of action  initially taken to actively pursue the third party insurer.  This was 
subject to a previous complaint at this service, so I wont consider this here. But, as above, 
Im satisfied AXA has now looked  into the incident, and taken steps to try and mitigate  both 
its and Ms Fs losses here  which is what I would have expected it to do. Its just that this 
wasnt successful. 
So, this means AXA has acted correctly in noting  Ms Fs excess  would be payable,  and the 
claim would be recorded as bonus  disallowed.  
I know Ms F is concerned  the loss suffered has impacted  her insurance premium, and will do 
so again in the future. Its possible  it will affect Ms Fs insurance premium in the future.  But 
as Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly and accurately in the way it has recorded the claim 
Ms F made, I dont  think it has done  anything wrong  in this respect.
Ref: DRN57964383my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5796438