K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Quidie Limited, trading  as Fernovo,  did not check that he could  afford to 
pay back the loan when he took it out. Mr L says that Fernovo should  have completed a full 
affordability check and if it had done, it would have seen the ongoing debt he had at the time 
and not lent to him. Mr L complains that the interest  wasnt properly explained to him and 
overpayments did not reduce his interest.
background
Mr L took a single loan from Fernovo of £500  in September  2018. This loan was an 
instalment loan to be repaid in six payments of about £129 each month. The total amount 
repayable was due to have been  just over £770.
Fernovo has sent us account details  which show that Mr L stopped paying after the fourth  
instalment. Mr L told Fernovo in January 2019 that he had lost his job.
Fernovo has explained that when Mr L applied  it used the information he had given  to it 
which was that his income was £2000. Fernovo said it verified his income using its credit 
bureau searches  and Fernovo has supplied copies of those searches. It has explained that it 
considers it has carried  out what it needed to do before lending  and it wasnt to know  that 
Mr L would  become unemployed.
 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and didnt think  that it should  be upheld.He 
thought that Fernovo should have asked Mr L about  his outgoings to check  that the loan was 
affordable for him but on the basis of the information provided by Mr L about  his outgoings at 
the time he thought that the loan would still have  been granted.
Mr L disagreed in strong terms  and said that the income and outgoings figures were not 
complete and he had more  outgoings  from a different account. He said the interest was 
confusing and not clear. As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend.
The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into 
account a number of different things, including how much was being  lent and when the sum 
being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Ref: DRN53907702From what  I have  seen I agree with the adjudicator that Fernovo  ought  to have asked Mr L 
about his outgoings to make sure he could sustainably afford the repayments over the length 
of the loan. But if it had done  so it would not have changed the decision to give him the loan.
This was Mr Ls first loan from Fernovo and the repayments of £129  were a small proportion  
of his declared income of £2000. Mr Ls income  was verified  against  the details Fernovo 
received from its credit  bureau  searches. The searches also revealed Mr Ls credit 
commitments but the instalments appeared affordable  when these outgoings were included.
Fernovo has told us that it had no reason to be concerned and having seen the credit search 
results then this seems a reasonable  and proportionate response.
And as the repayments for the loan Mr L was applying  for were due to be relatively low 
taking into account  his declared  income at the time of application,  then I do not think  that 
Fernovos decision to lend was irresponsible. I think it was likely to have calculated  that Mr L 
was able to repay about £129 a month.
Like the adjudicator  I think that Fernovo could have done more to build a picture of Mr Ls 
outgoings but even if it had done  this I dont think it wouldve  made a difference to the 
decision to lend. I say this because Mr L has provided us with his bank statements and his 
normal monthly outgoings which it is likely he would have declared to Fernovo  came  to 
around £1660.  This includes his credit repayments. On this basis Fernovo wasnt wrong  to 
give Mr L the loan.
Mr L has said that his outgoings were spread  over different accounts but he hasnt provided 
the statements  for these.  I can see that there  was other income from his partner and so I 
assume the outgoings may have been  shared. But I have based my decision only on Mr Ls 
income and the outgoings  I can see from the statement and the loan still appears  affordable.
I dont doubt that Mr L was in difficulty and a full financial  review may have revealed that he 
wasnt responsibly managing his finances. But at this stage in the lending  relationship  and in 
the absence of anything of concern on the credit report I cant  say that these checks should  
have been carried  out. If Fernovo had continued to lend to Mr L then further checks  may 
have been needed.
So I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint in relation to the lending  decision.
I have looked  at the information Mr L was given about the interest  to be applied  to the 
account and I can see that it was clear in the agreement how much interest would be added 
and how much Mr L would need to pay back.  I cant see that Fernovo has done anything 
wrong and interest  has been charged  in line with the agreement  that Mr L signed.  So I dont 
uphold this aspect  of his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision before 
6 October 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5390770