K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs W took out a credit  card with Lloyds in 1994.  Her first available  statement, in 2000,  
shows there being PPI on the account.  So the policy was sold at some  point between 1994 
and 2000. It covered Mrs Ws credit card in case she was off sick or out of work.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The PPI was sold a very long time ago, and the account has long since closed, so I think  its 
understandable that neither side have the original  documents from the time. Indeed, under 
data protection  regulations, Lloyds were  required to dispose of Mrs Ws data rather  than hold 
onto it for too long.  Mrs W doesnt remember choosing PPI, and I think thats understandable  
either way, given just how long ago the sale was, and since buying insurance is not often 
memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have happened based  on the 
information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Lloyds to have added the PPI without Mrs Ws 
permission, or to have  misled her into thinking it was compulsory. But I have  no evidence 
which shows thats what Lloyds did here,  nor have I seen  any wider problems with their 
sales process from the time. Indeed,  from what  Ive seen  of the way Lloyds sold this type of 
PPI in this time period,  it looks like they wouldve given Mrs W a choice about whether  she 
wanted PPI, and only set it up if she actively chose it. So I think  its most likely that Lloyds 
made Mrs W aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at 
the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs W or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs W, Ive assumed they did. 
That means Lloyds  to check the policy was right for her. And based  on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For example, Mrs W wasnt significantly 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI  while  she was self-employed, it 
wouldnt have been significantly  harder for her to claim if she was off sick or out of work.  And 
from what shes told us, Mrs W doesnt  seem  to have had any other cover at all. So it looks 
like the PPI couldve really been useful for her in case she fell on difficult times.
Ref: DRN56896762Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mrs W about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. But as I explained  above,  it doesnt look like she was significantly affected  by any 
of the policys  main exclusions or limitations, and it would have been useful for Mrs W if 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mrs W could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mrs W mentioned that there may have been  an occasion where she could have 
claimed on the PPI, but didnt. If Mrs W was eligible to claim, but didnt, then she may be 
able to make  a back-dated claim now. If shed like to do that, she should get back in touch 
with Lloyds. And if Mrs W has any trouble  with the back-dated claim, she may be able to 
bring that to our service as a separate case.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ws complaint about  the sale of this 
PPI policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5689676