K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have handled 
her claim. 
Mrs W is being represented  by Mr W who is also managing her claim. For ease I have 
referred to Mrs W throughout.  
background
RSA appointed a point  of contact for Mrs Ws claim who got in contact with her in 
October 2018. During an initial  call they discussed what  needed to happen  to progress the 
claim, including some  information RSA needed  from Mrs W. RSA provided Mrs W with the 
email address of their department  to contact if needed. Mrs Ws claim relates to a wall that 
has been damaged by a third party. During  the call Mrs W asked questions about RSAs  
recoveries process  which is how an insurer recovers  costs from a third party.  It was agreed 
the advisor would  contact  the relevant department to get the answers.  Mrs W contacted RSA 
by email and phone as she hadnt heard back. Unfortunately she was unable  to reach her 
claim handler until around two weeks later. Mrs W was then provided with her claim handlers 
direct e-mail address. 
The advisor called back at the end of October  2018 and at the beginning of November 2018, 
to discuss recoveries and provide some  further information. They said they were still waiting 
for the answers  to some of Mrs Ws questions - Mrs W also asked additional questions during 
the call. The advisor agreed  said they would find out the answers  and be back  in touch.
Mrs W again didnt receive a response, so she contacted  RSA around a month later, in 
December 2018.  Her claim  handler  wasnt available so Mrs W spoke with another  advisor. 
Mrs W said she was waiting for an update  on some  information from the advisor   and when 
they last spoke they said theyd be back in touch. Mrs W was in contact on several 
occasions but was unable  to speak her claim handler - and it was unclear the reason  why. 
Another advisor later called back with an update but said the last time RSA spoke to Mrs W 
theyd left her to decide how she wanted  to proceed regarding  the recovery and claim.
Mrs W mentioned  her frustration with not having  a direct contact number for her point of 
contact several times during the period between October and December 2018 - she said this 
was complicating matters. RSA said it wasnt possible  to give out direct numbers. Mrs W 
was also frustrated her questions had still not been  answered.
Mrs W raised a complaint. She didnt feel RSA was keeping  to the agreement to have  one 
point of contact  and were  making it impossible for her to continue the claim. 
RSA said they had provided direct email access to one of their advisors  so they had 
provided one point of contact to Mrs W. They said if Mrs W chose to call there  would be 
times when  a specific person wouldnt always be available.  They  said there  were  a couple of 
occasions where they hadnt acted swiftly when they were  waiting for further information 
from another department, but they didnt think this was detrimental to the claim or had an 
impact on their handling of it.
Mrs W brought her complaint to our service.  
Ref: DRN51959492Our investigator recommended Mrs Ws complaint be upheld. They said Mrs W had struggled  
to get the information shed asked for so the claim hadnt moved  forward  as a result.
 This meant Mrs W had spent a lot of time trying to speak to her point of contact without  any 
success. The investigator said although RSA might not be able to guarantee a point of 
contact would be available  to talk on the phone,  this could  have  been  explained to Mrs W 
sooner and RSA could've returned  calls and noted the account  to simply put calls through. 
She recommended RSA pay Mrs W £100  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
RSA didnt agree, they said they had provided  one point of contact  as agreed.  As their 
advisors needed to be available to speak to other customers, it was reasonable they 
wouldnt always be available to speak to Mrs W  but theyd always  attempted  to return  
Mrs Ws calls and had left voicemails  to call back.
As RSA disagreed  the complaint has now been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has raised other issues  regarding RSA in her submissions, but I wont  be 
commenting on them here. What Ill be looking at is how RSA have handled Mrs Ws claim 
since October 2018. 
Mrs W has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service, 
set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting  on every issue  in turn. This 
isnt intended  as a discourtesy to Mrs W. Rather  it reflects the informal  nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it. 
RSA assigned one point of contact for Mrs W so its done what  was agreed.  But I do think  
Mrs W has suffered  unnecessary inconvenience  and a loss of expectation from the way RSA 
have handled  her claim since this happened. So Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint and Ill 
explain why.
RSA took two weeks to provide a dedicated  point of contact for Mrs W. Ideally this wouldve 
been done quicker, and I can understand Mrs Ws frustration it wasnt, but its fair RSA would 
need some  time to arrange this. So I dont  think two weeks is an unreasonable timeframe.  
Mrs W was initially  given a general  mailbox  address to contact her dedicated point of 
contact. As she didnt receive a response to the questions shed raised over the phone she 
contacted the mailbox and called in asking to speak with her claim handler. The advisor she 
spoke to didnt  know who this was and there wasnt any information to show  Mrs W has a 
sole point of contact  handling the claim.  Mrs W contacted RSA several  times  before  she 
heard back  from the claim handler,  around  two weeks later.  Mrs W was then provided with 
their direct email address.
Ref: DRN51959493Ive listened to a call between Mrs W and the claim handler at the beginning of November 2018,  
they said they needed to get some  further information about recoveries and would come back  to 
Mrs W  but didnt say when. The system note left by the claim handler following the call didnt 
mention the outstanding information and just says RSA are awaiting a decision about how Mrs 
W would like to proceed with her claim. Mrs W had already  discussed  recoveries in the initial  
calls with the claim handler who had recognised it was an important matter  to Mrs W. So I think 
its reasonable they should have kept Mrs W updated  and I cant  see this happened.  
Mrs W didnt hear anything  for over a month  so she contacted RSA to find out what  was 
happening. She had to call several times  but was unable to speak to her claim handler again 
and this resulted  in her spending a lot of time on the phone and having to explain the 
situation to advisors  unfamiliar  with her claim. RSA did call back  when they said they would,  
but I do think they caused unnecessary  delays.  I say this because Mrs W was waiting to 
hear back on her question about  liability  from her point of contact, but hadnt.  Also as the 
notes on the system didnt  show Mrs W was waiting  for information  the other advisers were 
unable to help her when she called. Because of this Im satisfied RSA have  caused  Mrs W 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and should  compensate her for this. I think £100  
compensation is fair and reasonable as I think it accurately reflects  the inconvenience  RSA 
have caused Mrs W.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
should pay Mrs W £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5195949