K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds  decision to replace their 
carpet in only their dining room after they made  a claim  under their home insurance policy. 
background 
Mr and Mrs P made a claim to Ageas  after the carpet in their dining  room suffered accidental 
damage. The carpet ran through glass double-doors to a living  room  and then through  
another door to a hallway,  all with no joins or door bars fitted.  The carpet then ran up the 
stairs, though this was a separate piece.
Ageas accepted the claim. However,  it said it was prepared  to replace the carpet in the 
dining room only as this was a clearly definable  area. This meant it would be necessary to fit 
a door bar at the double doors.
Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy about  this. They referred their complaint to us.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  After examining photos  
and speaking to Mr and Mrs P, he considered that the dining room couldnt be considered  as 
a clearly definable area distinct  from the living room. He therefore thought that Ageas should  
cover the cost of replacing the carpet in both these rooms. However, he was satisfied  that 
the hallway was a separate area by virtue  of the solid wooden door separating it from the 
living room  and he therefore considered that Ageas wasnt required  to replace the carpet  in 
this area.
Ageas didnt accept  the investigators findings. It maintained that the double  doors  between  
the dining room  and living room meant these were clearly defined  areas,  regardless of 
whether, as noted by the investigator,  the doors were normally left open.  
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. 
I shall explain why.
The policy states:
We will not pay for the cost of replacing  any undamaged items  forming part of a set, suite or 
other article of a uniform nature, design  or colour  when damage  occurs to a specific  part or 
within a clearly definable area and replacements cannot be matched 
Ageas says that the dining room, where the carpet has been damaged, is a clearly  definable  
area. However, I dont  think this is fair. Photographs of the property  show the carpet  runs 
uninterrupted through  glass double doors  into the living room. I consider that the two rooms,  
particularly when the door is open,  run into one another. I can understand Mr and Mrs Ps 
objection to Ageas wanting to install a door bar as I think  this would emphasise the border  
between the two rooms and thus significantly change the feel of the space. I dont think it is 
fair to say that the glass double door divides the space  into two clearly  definable areas  for 
the purposes of the policy.
Ref: DRN56517302I consider it is reasonable to say that the dining/living room area is clearly definable from the 
hallway by virtue of the wooden door which separates them.  Im therefore satisfied that if 
Mr and Mrs P wished  to replace the carpet in the hallway also,  this would have to be at their 
own expense.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to provide cover for the replacement of the carpet in the dining 
room and living room  in accordance with the policys remaining terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5651730