K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he experienced problems with his computer  after he downloaded  anti-
virus software recommended by The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc. He is unhappy that he had 
to pay a computer  expert  to fix his computer. 
background
Mr P said RBS recommended  he download  a software program  provided  by a third party  to 
make his online banking  more secure. He said that after he downloaded the program his 
computer slowed down.  This caused him to need maintenance work to repair it, which cost 
him £50.
Mr P said he spent  a considerable amount of time resolving  the issues  with his computer   
after which he was able to use it properly. He also said he wasnt  able to use his computer 
for three days while it was being  repaired. So, he contacted RBS as he wanted it to 
acknowledge that the problems he had were its fault because it had recommended the 
software. And he asked  it to reimburse him the fee hed paid for his computer repair.  But 
RBS said it wasnt responsible for this problem and it invited him to address his concerns 
with the company providing the software instead.
Being dissatisfied with RBS response, Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
empathised with him but didnt think RBS had done anything wrong. But Mr P disagreed with 
our investigator and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman .
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr P experienced when  he attempted  to download the 
software and I can appreciate that he was inconvenienced.  But having thought  about  
everything he and RBS have said, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator that RBS hasnt made a mistake and has acted fairly. I appreciate  this will come 
as a disappointment  to Mr P so Ill explain why.
Banks have a duty to safeguard its customer accounts from potentially  fraudulent  
transactions. Preventing  fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. And I 
think RBS suggesting   Mr P considered software security was sensible.  
The software wasnt required to log into RBS system. So, Mr P could still access online 
banking and make  transactions without it. Because the software is optional it was ultimately  
for Mr P  to decide whether he needed or wanted  it.
The recommendation RBS gave about the software  was generic. It wasnt  telling customers 
to download this software it was merely  suggesting  customers may wish to consider 
downloading it. 
I dont think RBS couldve known  whether  the software was compatible with an individual  
customers computer. As this his would  depend on the capability of the device,  which will 
vary from device to device.   I havent  seen anything to suggest NatWest  could have or even 
undertook to accept  any responsibility for checking the software  was right for Mr Ps 
Ref: DRN53979212computer.  And, if Mr P wasnt sure whether  the software was compatible with his computer I 
think he couldve checked this with a computer expert before he tried to download it.
Mr P has indicated  he wanted compensation to cover the cost of his computer repair. RBS 
doesnt appear to dispute that he experienced problems with his computer after hed 
downloaded the software. And Ive seen  evidence that Mr P paid £50 for a computer expert 
to restore his computer  to how it was before hed attempted to download the software.  
But as Ive already set out, I dont think RBS is responsible here because the problem wasnt  
caused by something  it did wrong. It had no control over whether  the software would be 
compatible. It didnt provide the software   and support for it is given by the external company 
who produces the software.
 
I understand Mr P feels very strongly about  the issues  raised  in this complaint. But taking 
everything into account, I think that RBS acted fairly and reasonably.  So  it follows that Im 
not going to be ask it to do anything.  This doesnt, of course,  prevent Mr P from complaining 
directly to the company who produced the software about the problems he experienced with 
his computer if he wishes to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5397921