K820x#14                      
complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  about The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society Limiteds (Royal 
London) decision  to decline Mr Es claims for total and permanent disability benefit. They 
also believe  they were  mis-sold the policies. 
background
Mr and Mrs E have  a decreasing temporary assurance policy with critical illness cover and a 
critical illness policy with Royal London.  The policies  were  taken  out in 2002 and 2003. 
In October  2018 Mr E claimed under both policies  for total and permanent disability benefit 
because hed unfortunately  been  diagnosed with Myasthenia Gravis (Graves  Disease).
In March 2019 Royal London  declined  both claims. It said the definition of a permanent, total 
and irreversible  disability hadnt been met. 
Mr and Mrs E complained to Royal London.  They felt the policies had been mis-sold as 
theyd been led to believe theyd pay out if either  of them was diagnosed with any critical 
illness. 
Royal London didnt  uphold the complaint. It said the policies had been  correctly sold. And 
Mr and Mrs E were  provided with all the necessary paperwork at the time,  so were fully 
aware of the policies terms and conditions.  
Mr and Mrs E didnt  agree and asked us to look into their complaint. They said if the policies 
had been correctly sold, they wouldve paid out. And they thought the decision to decline the 
claims was unfair as Mr Es condition is permanent and incurable and hes unable to work.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said Royal London  
had provided evidence to show the policies met Mr and Mrs Es needs at the time they were 
taken out. And he was satisfied they were  provided  with information about the key features 
of the policies and the policy  documents showing what they were covered for. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Mr and Mrs E had been led to believe the policies would pay out for 
any critical illness or because they couldnt  work.  
In terms of the decision to decline the claims, our investigator found  this had been based on 
the medical evidence available  to Royal London at the time. And was in line with the policies 
terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy, so the case  has been passed to me for review. Mr E felt 
the true impact of his condition  wasnt being  fully appreciated. He said he could provide 
further evidence  to support the claim. In terms of the sale of the policies,  Mr and Mrs E said 
this wasnt something theyd been  looking for and was only suggested to them when they 
increased their mortgage.   
Ref: DRN58362122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, including the reports  from Mr Es Consultant 
Neurologist and from his GP, Dr B. But Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about  it, but because I dont  think I need  to comment  on it to reach what  I think is 
the right outcome.
I know my decision will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs E as this has been a difficult  
time for them. But Id like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  
mis-sale 
Mr and Mrs E havent disputed what our investigator found in terms of the suitability of the 
policies sold to them. They have said they were only approached by Royal London when 
they increased their mortgage. But that alone isnt evidence that a product was mis-sold.  
Having looked  at the process Royal London  went through to decide what policies were  
suitable and best met Mr and Mrs Es needs,  Im satisfied Royal London acted as it 
shouldve done,  and in Mr and Mrs Es best interests.
Mr and Mrs Es main  argument here is that they were led to believe the policies would pay 
out for any critical illness  and that was why they agreed to buy them. Ive seen no evidence 
to support that, either  at the point the policies were sold or in the policy  documents. The Key 
Features booklet  provided to Mr and Mrs E lists what critical illnesses  are covered. But its 
also made clear that this is only a guide, and that the policy documents contain more  
information on the specifics of the listed conditions and the basis on which  a claim would be 
paid. Ive looked at the policy document and can see that each listed  critical illness  is 
contained in the Critical illness  Conditions section. This section  also says:
The medical conditions covered by this policy are defined  below.  Claims in respect of 
medical conditions  other  than those included below will not be accepted.   
I appreciate Mr and Mrs E think they were given the impression all critical illness would be 
covered by the policies when they took them out. But I think the information provided to them 
clearly showed this wasnt the case. So I dont think Royal  London did anything wrong here.  
claims
Ive only looked  at whether Royal Londons decision to decline Mr Es claims was fair based 
on the information available to it at the time. Mr and Mrs E have said very little is known 
about the symptoms  of Graves disease  and have mentioned further  medical reports. Any 
new evidence would  need to go to Royal London  to consider and comment on first before 
our service  could look at it. Royal London  may change its decision on Mr and Mrs Es claims 
 or if not, they could raise  a new complaint to Royal London about the new evidence,  which  
wed be able to look at as a new complaint if they needed us to.
In considering the fairness of Royal Londons decision to decline the claims in March this 
year, Ive looked  at the relevant policy terms and conditions. Total, permanent and 
Ref: DRN58362123irreversible disability  because of a disease is a listed critical illness  in the policy  terms and 
conditions. So I can understand why Mr E, having been diagnosed with a permanent 
condition that left him with disabilities, claimed under the policies. But the reason Royal  
London didnt  accept the claims  was because,  based on the medical evidence it had at the 
time, Mr Es condition didnt meet the relevant definition. 
The policy documents say:
Total Permanent Disability
Total permanent and irreversible disability  arising  from injury  or disease.
Disability will be considered to be total if it results in the inability, as described below, to carry 
out at least 4 of the following activities: 
Bending 
Climbing 
Communicating 
General Health 
Lifting 
Manual Dexterity 
Reading 
Walking .
When assessing Mr Es claims, Royal London had evidence from two medical  practitioners.  
Based on that evidence,  they werent persuaded Mr Es condition would result  in permanent 
and total disability. They also said Mr E was able to complete 5 of the 8 activities  listed  
above. 
Ive seen the letter sent to Royal London by Mr Es Consultant  Neurologist. He confirms  that 
Graves disease is a treatable condition and that with appropriate treatment, symptoms 
should improve. He also says, I would not expect permanent and irreversible  disability. Ive 
also seen the report from Dr B who confirms Mr E is able to complete 5 of the activities listed  
above. 
I appreciate what Mr E has told us about  how little is known about  his condition and how 
unpredictable the impact  it has on his ability to do things can be. I also understand what he 
says about the effectiveness of the treatments hes having. But based  on the information 
available to Royal London at the time of Mr Es claims, I dont think  it treated him unfairly by 
declining them because the medical evidence didnt  demonstrate that he met the policy  
definitions. 
As Ive said above,  if Mr E has more evidence to support his claims, then he should provide 
that to Royal  London.  Hes also able to make  a fresh claim, any time before  the policies end, 
if his situation  changes.   
Ref: DRN58362124my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5836212