K822xcomplaint
Ms C has complained about the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when 
arranging a remortgage of her property. In particular Ms C says HSBCs website was 
misleading and gave her incorrect information. Ms C is also unhappy at the level of online 
support available and about  the steps she was required to take to unlock  her telephone 
banking. Ms C is asking HSBC to pay her £10,000  compensation.
background 
In April 2018 Ms C, who lives outside  the UK, owned  a UK property jointly with her son, in 
which he lived. That property had a mortgage  on it in Ms Cs sole name  with HSBC which 
had about a year left to run and a balance of about £20,000. 
Ms C wanted to raise  money to buy a new UK property jointly with her son by taking out a 
homeowner loan in her sole name  of £230,000  secured against her existing property. Ms C 
submitted an online  application but encountered difficulties with this because  she was 
unable to pass the authentication process.  
Ms C tried to use the online chat facility, but was unable to get answers  to her specific 
questions about  the application. Eventually, after speaking  with HSBC on the telephone, 
Ms C was told that she needed  to put her overseas address into the system in a specific 
format. 
Ms C was also unable  to upload the required documents, and so she had to telephone 
HSBC but unfortunately the account was locked because Ms C couldnt remember  the 
answers to her security  questions. On HSBCs  instructions, Ms C went to a local branch, and 
a staff member there phoned HSBC in the UK and asked for the account to be unlocked. 
HSBC said it could  not do this but would instead  send a security package to Ms Cs address  
by post. This took about ten days to arrive. 
Ms C complained to HSBC. The bank acknowledged that it had been wrong to tell Ms C that 
she could go to a branch  to get her account  unlocked. HSBC also noted the frustration Ms C 
had experienced in trying to use the chat facility. HSBC offered Ms C compensation of £150 
for the trouble and upset  shed suffered.
Ms C didnt accept this and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Ms C wants  us to investigate whether overseas customers are treated  unfairly  by HSBC, and 
whether there has been maladministration by HSBC in relation to the steps she was required 
to take to unlock  her telephone banking service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I see that Ms C also raised  other issues with HSBC   relating to paperwork requested by 
HSBC for a s.106 agreement with the developer and about the banks request that Ms Cs 
son would  need  to take independent legal advice. The bank issued its final response letter 
on these matters on 3 July 2018,  giving  Ms C six months from the date of that letter  so by 
3 January 2019 - to bring  her complaint to us about those matters.
Ref: DRN52623512Ms C didnt complain to us until 7 June 2019.  As there are no exceptional circumstances to 
explain the delay,  and HSBC hasnt consented  to us looking at these issues,  Im satisfied I 
cant consider those parts of Ms Cs complaint.
Turning now to the issues we can consider. I appreciate that Ms C has found the mortgage 
process frustrating, particularly as she is on the other side of the world, with a substantial 
time difference. Because of this, Ms C has had to make her application remotely. 
The default  position for HSBCs UK mortgage operations  is that, for the majority of its 
mortgage applications, it will be dealing with borrowers and properties within the UK. Its 
systems are set up for this. I dont have  any power to tell HSBC what  systems it should have 
in place, and as the bank  is operating  in the UK mortgage market,  I dont think  its 
unreasonable for its system to be set up to accommodate the majority of its mortgage 
applicants. 
When, as in this case, the borrower is not in the UK, navigating the online system is not 
straightforward. I agree with Ms C that the information she was required to input about her 
postcode wasnt  obvious. It wasnt possible to sort out these difficulties via the chat service 
because HSBCs policy is that it wont discuss account-specific  queries  over its chat service. 
Again, I cant  tell HSBC  what policies to have in place. But it seems to me to be reasonable 
from a security standpoint to keep  its chat service to general queries rather  than confidential 
information about a mortgage application.
HSBC incorrectly told Ms C to go into a local branch to get her account unlocked.  But when 
branch staff tried to do this, HSBC in the UK wouldnt do it over the telephone. Ms C believes 
HSBC has lied about this, because she says shes been able to have her account unlocked 
in this way in the past. 
Whilst HSBC may have made exceptions in the past, Im not persuaded the bank has acted 
incorrectly or outside its usual procedures in sending a security  package through the post for 
Ms C to complete. I also dont think the bank acted  unreasonably when it refused to confirm 
Ms Cs address over the telephone. 
HSBC has acknowledged  it caused  Ms C some  inconvenience when it said she should go 
into the branch.  The bank  has offered compensation of £150 for this. Ms C thinks  this is 
inadequate and wants the bank to pay her £10,000  for the distress, inconvenience and 
disrespect she says shes suffered at the hands of HSBC.
Clearly there is a big disparity  between what the bank has offered and what Ms C thinks is 
fair compensation. Whilst I acknowledge Ms C was upset that things didnt go as smoothly  
as she wanted,  I think  the offer the banks made  of £150 compensation is fair, reasonable 
and proportionate to the error it made.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms C was hoping  for. I dont underestimate her strength of 
feeling. But, taking  everything into account,  Im satisfied the compensation of £150  is 
sufficient and I dont  think HSBC needs to pay any more.
Ref: DRN52623513my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Im satisfied that the 
compensation of £150 offered by HSBC UK Plc is fair and reasonable. I simply leave it to 
Ms C to decide if she wants to accept  it in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5262351