K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited (Jelf) directed their legal expenses 
insurance claim to the incorrect insurer.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  in detail 
here. 
In summary,  Jelf arranged  a home  insurance  policy for Mr and Mrs S in 2017. Legal  
expenses cover was also included with this. In 2018,  Jelf had to place the policies with 
different insurers. 
Mrs S wished to make  a claim  for legal costs  associated  with an employment  matter. A claim 
form was submitted to Jelf in June 2018  and it sent this on to the current legal expenses 
insurer, which Ill call A.  A reviewed the claim and let Mr and Mrs S know that it wouldnt be 
covered under the current policy as the event happened before the policy started.  A few 
days later Jelf submitted  the claim form to the previous legal expenses insurer, who Ill call 
D.  D took the claim forward.
Mr and Mrs S complain  they incurred solicitors  fees that arent  being  covered by D as they 
were incurred before cover was accepted in August 2018. Mr and Mrs S say Jelf should  
cover these costs as it incorrectly directed them and the claim to A in the first instance.
Jelf responded  saying  it didnt think it had done anything wrong, it isnt to know  which insurer 
will deal with the claim and it acted promptly to redirect the claim when it was told cover  had 
been declined  by A. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and brought  their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said Jelf 
had initially  given Mr and Mrs S the details of the correct insurer.  However, later on as the 
telephone number for the legal advice line hadnt  changed, he was connected to A as the 
current insurer, instead of D. Jelf sent the claim form on to A and then redirected  it to D 
when required.  She said she didnt think Jelf had delayed the matter and as such  she didnt 
recommend it cover  any of the solicitors costs  Mr and Mrs S had incurred. She also pointed 
out that even if the claim had been sent to D correctly in the first instance, it would have 
been unlikely  the claim would have  been accepted immediately and therefore  Mr and 
Mrs Ss costs  wouldnt have been  covered in any event. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked  for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs S have  strong  views about  what has happened.  I want  to reassure 
them Ive read and considered everything  theyve  said very carefully but my decision 
focusses on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. And, I wont  therefore be 
responding in the same  level of detail.  I dont intend  this as a discourtesy,  rather it reflects  
the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Ref: DRN56098382Having reviewed everything, I agree  with the outcome  reached  by the investigator that the 
complaint should  not be upheld for the following reasons:
It is a common  term in legal expenses insurance policies that costs  incurred prior to 
cover being accepted  wont be covered by the policy. From reviewing the timeline 
provided, it is clear Mr and Mrs S had contacted and been  incurring  solicitors  costs 
long before either insurance company was contacted, and a claim instigated. I would 
only therefore look to direct that Jelf should  pay some of these  costs  if I am 
persuaded it made an error and that error led to costs not being covered  which  
otherwise would have been. 
Given the time that has past and the fact most of Mr and Mrs Ss communications  
with Jelf were verbally there is little evidence of exactly what was discussed prior to 
the legal  expenses claim being  submitted. However, I do accept,  given the text 
message that was sent including details of the employment dispute section of Ds 
policy, the possibility  of a claim was raised with Jelf in 2017. However, in the context 
of the legal claim history  that was at the very early stages and at a point  were  no 
insurance claim was needing  to be made.  I note the information provided within the 
text also included the section which explained  costs  wouldnt  be covered before a 
claim is accepted.
Given the lack of evidence there is nothing definitive that says Jelf didnt act on 
instructions provided by Mr and Mrs S. Had they asked Jelf to make a claim for them  
in July 2017 or even at other significant  dates in the underlying  legal matter, I would 
have expected a complaint to have  been  raised much  sooner about the lack of 
contact from an insurer. Because of this, I think it is more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs S didnt  instruct Jelf to submit a claim until early  June 2018.
Jelf dont process claims on behalf  of insurers and therefore  I wouldnt expect it to 
know which policy a claim should be made  under.  Especially  as policy  wordings can 
differ between insurers and the date of an insured event is usually determined by an 
insurer or solicitors working on their behalf. In the circumstances of this case,  it 
seemed reasonable, on the face of it, to present  the claim to the current  insurer in the 
first instance. 
I think Jelf submitted the claim to D in a timely  manner after it was made  aware A 
wouldnt provide  cover for the claim. 
Given the time it usually takes for insurers  to assess claims and decide  if cover is to 
be accepted, even if I thought Jelf had caused a delay,  I dont think  it would have 
changed the position Mr and Mrs S found  themselves  in. Especially given the tight 
timescale between  the claim form being submitted and the relevant tribunal deadline. 
Therefore, it would have been the case in any event that the costs they had incurred  
would not have been covered.
For the reasons  above, I do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Jelf Insurance  
Brokers Limited.
Ref: DRN56098383Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 September 2021.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5609838