K820x#14complaint
Miss A has complained  that Marshall Sterling Investment  Management Limited (MSIM) is 
responsible for losses she suffered trading foreign exchange contracts for difference. 
background
Miss A had an account with LMAX. She authorised Mr D to place trades  on her account.  It is 
in dispute whether Mr D was acting in a personal  capacity or in his role as an employee of 
Marshall Sterling Asset Management (MSAM). MSAM  had originally been an appointed 
representative of a principal firm. It later became directly authorised  and changed its name to 
MSIM. Throughout the period of this change Mr D continued to place trades on Miss As 
LMAX account.
In February/March 2015 Miss A started  to complete  the paperwork required to become a 
client of MSIM. This wasnt  completed  until 12 March 2015. However, on 16 March 2015  
Miss A closed all of the open positions  on the account crystallising a significant  loss.
Over the time her account was open  with LMAX  Miss A suffered a substantial loss. She 
considers that foreign exchange  trading  was unsuitable for her and that MSAM and MSIM 
are responsible for her losses. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. I said:
In this complaint  I can only look at the actions of MSIM,  I cannot  look at the actions of 
MSAM. Miss A has made a separate complaint about these actions. However, I have issued 
a decision explaining why I didnt think that Miss A was ever a customer of MSAM (and as a 
result, of its principal). My decision was that Miss A had a personal arrangement with Mr D.
The key question is therefore did the management  of the account change from a personal 
relationship with Mr D to a business  relationship with MSIM.
It is usually the case  that a customer relationship  is evidenced by the required paperwork 
such as a fact find, terms of business etc. The account opening documentation and new 
Power of Attorney (authorising MSIM rather than Mr D to place trades on the account) were  
not finally in place until 12 March 2015. Therefore  on this basis Miss A didnt become a 
customer of MSIM until 12 March 2015.
However, whilst  MSIM  had the ability to place trades  on the account before actually doing  so 
it needed to agree a trading strategy  with Miss A. Until this was in place it couldnt in practice  
carry out any trades on the account.  Miss A had made it clear that she didnt  want  Mr D to 
have any further  involvement in the management  of her account. In the end Miss A closed 
the account before a trading strategy was agreed.
I have also considered whether Miss A might have been a customer  of MSIM before the 
normal formalities had been completed   and as a result responsible  for Miss As losses.
As I said earlier,  in another decision I concluded that Miss A had a personal relationship with 
Mr D rather than a business  one with MSAM. On 13 February  2015  Mr D emailed Miss A 
and wrote:
Ref: DRN59029312We will need to have  the completed  documentation  by Friday the 27th of February as I will 
no longer be able to assist you with your account on a personal nature after this time 
[considering my new role] and feel you will benefit from the added infrastructure and support 
the company has to offer.
Once we are in possession of the documentation  and have approved the account, you will 
be positioned to benefit from the delivery  of service and participation made  available  by 
Marshall Sterling Investment Management.
 
In my view the above confirms the understanding between Miss A and Mr D that the move  
from a personal to a business relationship with MSIM would take place on the completion of 
the required paperwork. This didnt take place until 12 March and as a result this is the date 
Miss A became a customer of MSIM.  
However, whilst  the paperwork was in place for MSIM to manage the account the strategy  
also had to be agreed. Whilst  there  were discussions between MSIM and Miss A, no 
agreement was reached and no trades were placed  by MSIM on the account. A short  time 
later Miss A closed all of the open  positions and closed the LMAX  account.
Therefore whilst Miss A was a customer of MSIM,  no trading strategy was agreed  and as a 
result no trades we undertaken. I therefore do not consider  MSIM is responsible for the fall in 
the value of the account in this period.
For the reasons  given  above my provisional conclusion is that MSIM is not responsible  for 
any of the losses  suffered  by Miss A. 
MSIM had nothing further to add.
Miss As solicitor  made the following points:
Foreign exchange  trading  was not suitable for an inexperienced investor such as Miss A. 
She was also not in a position  to take any risk with her savings.
It considers that Miss A became a client  of MSIM when it became directly authorised by the 
FCA. Mr D was an employee  of MSIM and MSIM  knew that Mr D was advising Miss A. 
MSIM did nothing to stop this.
This advice  created a contract between MSIM and Miss A. A contract doesnt have to be in 
writing. It referred to a legal case that shows how the parties  conduct  themselves is the 
guide to whether a contract exists.
This contractual relationship is further evidenced by payments MSIM received from LMAX.
MSIM should not have  categorised Miss A as an elective professional client  but as a retail 
client. It is not reasonable to conclude that a lack of an agreed  strategy  means that MSIM  is 
not responsible  for Miss As losses. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the points made by 
Miss As solicitor  but havent  been  persuaded to change my mind.
Ref: DRN59029313I accept that the absence  of a formal written  contract doesnt automatically mean that no 
customer relationship  existed between Miss A and MSIM. However, there is persuasive 
documentary evidence  that Mr D and Miss A considered their trading relationship to be an 
informal personal one rather than a formal arrangement  with MSIM. The platform  provider 
(LMAX) also considered  the arrangement between Mr D and Miss A a personal one. 
MSIM (and its predecessor firm MSAM) did receive  commission rebates from LMAX. These  
payments arose from an introducer agreement between LMAX and MSIM/MSAM and are 
not evidence of an arrangement between Miss A and MSIM. 
It therefore remains my view that Miss A did not become a client  of MSIM until the 
completion of the account opening  forms on 12 March 2015. Whilst the account opening 
formalities were  completed no trading took place before  the account was closed. No trading 
took place because Miss A was unsure whether she wanted trading to continue.  The losses 
arose from positions Miss A had before she became a client  of MSIM. 
It seems  likely that Miss A was an inexperienced risk averse investor.  On that basis  MSIM 
should have advised Miss A that forex trading  was unsuitable. If Miss A accepted that advice 
then the losses  which arose from holding these  positions would have been avoided. 
However, Miss A signed forms to confirm  that she was an experienced investor who was 
aware of and prepared to accept the risk of forex trading. I therefore do not consider that 
MSIM was obliged to advise Miss A to close her open positions.  As a result I do not consider 
MSIM is responsible for the losses that arose  from keeping these positions open. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5902931