K821x#15complaint
Miss Bs complaint is about  the compensation offered by St Andrews Insurance Plc 
(St Andrews) to settle a complaint relating  to mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
she took out with a loan.
background
Miss B complained to St Andrews she was mis-sold a PPI policy  when she took out a loan 
in July 2004.  St Andrews accepted responsibility for the mis-sale and upheld Miss Bs 
complaint. It offered  Miss B compensation of £632.10 after tax. 
Miss B wasnt happy that the compensation offered  refunded all the costs of the PPI so she 
brought her complaint  to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2019, a copy of which is attached 
to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out in some detail the background to this complaint and the 
reasons why I thought the offer made by St Andrews wasnt fair. I explained why I thought 
St Andrews  hadnt  included  the full premium  Miss B had paid in its calculation  of 
compensation. And I said St Andrews  should  recalculate the compensation due to Miss B 
taking this into account. 
St Andrews  has agreed with the findings in my provisional decision and provided a new 
calculation. 
Miss B has also responded saying she agreed  with my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision why I thought the amount St Andrews  had worked out 
wasnt correct. The total premium added to the loan was £630  and when Miss B settled her 
loan early I didnt think  St Andrews had taken into account what  had been included in the 
settlement figure for the costs of the PPI. So the compensation it had offered didnt include 
the full premium she had actually  paid.
Both parties  have accepted the findings I made and St Andrews has recalculated the 
compensation due to Miss B. It has now worked out that £1,741.09,  after tax, should  be the 
correct compensation.  This is before deduction  of any amount already paid to Miss B.
I have looked  at the figures provided by St Andrews in its new offer.  For some reason it has 
used the figure of £629.70 as the PPI premium added to the loan. The loan agreement, 
which is available to St Andrews, shows the premium was actually £630.  I do not 
understand why it has reduced this figure by £0.30 as this is incorrect,  although this would 
overall only make a minor  difference to the amount due to Miss B.
Ref: DRN51352972I also note that again  St Andrews appears  to have over calculated  the 8% simple interest 
per year figure. I made reference  to this in my provisional decision  with regard to its original 
calculation. I think the 8% simple interest amount should now be more  like £750/£850. 
Taking all these points  into account,  the under payment of £0.30 and the high 8% simple 
interest calculation, overall I think what St Andrews is now offering  is fair. Its calculation 
would ensure that Miss B is not out of pocket for any of the costs  of the PPI and also provide  
compensatory interest  for the time she was out of pocket.
St Andrews  has indicated that as Miss B has already been paid £632.10 for its original offer,  
it has deducted this from the total compensation, which gives  £1,108.99. So this is the 
amount it is intending  to pay to Miss B. 
I think that this £1,108.99  is a fair amount to finalise the correct  compensation due to Miss B. 
If this has not already  been paid to Miss B, St Andrews should  make this payment within the 
next 21 days.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above and in my provisional decision,  a copy of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision,  I think what  St Andrews Insurance Plc is now 
offering, £1,741.09, after tax, is fair compensation. This, less the amount already paid to 
Miss B, should be paid within  21 days of this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51352973Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss B has complained  about the amount of compensation  St Andrews Insurance  Plc (St Andrews) 
has offered  to settle her complaint about mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI), taken out 
alongside a loan.
background
In July 2004  Miss B took out a loan to buy a car and at the same time bought a PPI policy.  The cost of 
the policy  was added to the loan amount borrowed, so Miss B paid interest on this at the loan rate.
 
Miss B has now complained  she was mis-sold the PPI. St Andrews has accepted responsibility for 
the mis-sale.  It agreed to settle Miss Bs complaint and offered Miss B compensation  of £632.10 after 
tax. 
Miss B wasnt happy that the compensation offered refunded to her all the costs of the PPI so she 
brought her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator said what  St Andrews had offered was fair. 
Miss B still wasnt happy  and asked  for an ombudsman  to consider her complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
St Andrews  has agreed to uphold  this complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold and offered compensation 
to settle  the complaint. So in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold, Im 
only looking  at if the compensation offered  by St Andrews is fair.
When PPI is mis-sold I would  expect the business  to pay compensation  that puts the consumer as far 
as possible in the position they would have been in if the PPI hadnt been sold to them.
The premium for the PPI was £630.00 and this was added to the £3,500.00 Miss B borrowed for her 
car purchase. Miss B took out the loan with the PPI in July 2004 and then settled the loan early, in 
August 2005.  She made  13 monthly payments to the loan and a part of those payments were for the 
costs of the PPI.
St Andrews  has worked out Miss B would have paid a total of £188.18 towards  repaying the amount 
she had borrowed  for the PPI and also £57.64 in interest, as part of her monthly payments,  so in total 
£245.82 for the PPI. Having looked at the information about the monthly payment amounts and also 
at the calculations  provided by St Andrews, Im satisfied that £245.82 was paid for the PPI costs 
during the 13 months the loan was running.
St Andrews  has offered to refund this amount plus pay some 8% simple interest for the time Miss B 
was out of pocket for this cost. This brought the total offer up to £632.10 after tax had been deducted 
from the simple interest.
However Im not satisfied  that when Miss B settled her loan early in August  2005 she did not pay 
anything more towards the costs of the PPI as part of the settlement figure. 
When Miss B wanted to settle the loan she received  a letter  indicating she needed  to pay £3,283.48 
to pay off the loan early. The settlement letter says we could ask for the full difference between 
what youve paid so far and the total you originally agreed to pay. However, because youve been 
such a good customer  and you havent borrowed the money over the full term  we dont think that 
Ref: DRN51352974would be fair. So your settlement figure is lower,  because  weve  include an interest rebate in the 
calculation
The total due to be repaid under the loan agreement, including all the interest was £5,493.12. So 
taking account of the 13 monthly payments made and the settlement amount, Miss B paid £4,771.20 
in total for her loan. This was £726.92  less than if the loan had run to the full 48 month term.
St Andrews  has provided no breakdown of what the £726.92 was made up of, but has indicated  a 
rebate of the PPI premium  would have been made on settlement. So it seems it is saying  some of the 
£726.92 is a rebate for the PPI. However I dont agree this is correct and that is not what is indicated 
in the evidence I have  seen from the settlement  letter.
When looking  at a standard calculation approach for the amount Miss B borrowed,  the amount of 
interest that would have  been paid on the total loan from month 14 to the end of the full 48 term would 
have been around £700.00.  And the £726.92 taken off the total Miss B would  have paid for the full 
term is in line with this. 
Therefore I think the £3,283.48 settlement amount was for the total capital borrowed, less what  had 
been paid in monthly repayments towards that capital  loan. The figures would suggest  this and I have 
seen nothing  to show any rebate of any part of the PPI premium was included when  working out the 
settlement figure  Miss B paid. 
This means  that the total premium of £630, less the £188.18 paid towards the premium in the monthly 
repayments, gives  £ 441.52 left for the PPI premium cost. And I think this amount formed  part of the 
capital settlement amount. So when Miss B paid the £3,283.48 she had paid the balance of the full 
premium cost for the PPI, but no further interest on it.
Therefore, based on what I have seen so far, St Andrews owes Miss B this £441.52 as well as the 
£245.82 it has offered for the cost of the PPI in the repayments,  making a total of £687.64 to refund 
what Miss B paid for the PPI.
St Andrews  then needs to pay Miss B 8% simple interest on this total amount from August 2005 to 
the date of final settlement.  St Andrews will also need to work out how much Miss B was out of pocket 
each month  during the first 13 months of the loan when  she was making  monthly  payments and pay 
8% simple interest per year on these amounts.
It did this in its original  calculation but I dont think the 8% that was worked out, based on the total 
refund of £245.82,  was correct. I think St Andrews worked this out as more than it should  have been, 
when taking into account  Miss B being  out of pocket for only the £245.82 that had been offered.
Therefore I would ask St Andrews to recalculate the 8% from the start of the loan, showing 8% simple 
interest for each amount Miss B was out of pocket, and including 8% simple interest on the total she 
was out of pocket of £687.64 to the date of final settlement.
Unless there is evidence to show Miss B didnt pay the full amount of the PPI costs in repayments and 
as part of the settlement figure, that in response to this provisional decision St Andrews provides a 
new updated  calculation  for the compensation due to Miss B.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the responses of both parties, I dont think  what  
St Andrews  Insurance  Plc has offered in compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
I am intending to direct it pays compensation in line with what I have outlined and would  ask that in 
response to this decision St Andrews Insurance Plc provides a new calculation showing the 
compensation due.
Ref: DRN51352975This is all subject to any further information that is provided by either party by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5135297