K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 during  
a meeting. Mrs B says Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mrs B aware  the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before adding it 
to her credit card. Mrs B has told us that she had to take it to get the credit.  I cant  know for 
certain what was said at the time Mrs B applied for her card and PPI but Halifax  has sent us 
a copy of the available paperwork.
Mrs Bs credit  card application  form had a separate section titled product details where the 
option to take the PPI was selected before the form was printed and signed  by Mrs B. The 
section states if you would like to take advantage of these services please mark the relevant 
box. I think this statement shows the PPI wasnt a condition of obtaining the credit.
I think its likely the form was printed after a discussion took place  between  Mrs B and 
Halifax, and the option to take PPI was discussed.  If Mrs B didnt want  to take PPI, or the 
policy hadnt been discussed  I would  have expected Mrs B to have raised and concerns she 
may have  had before signing in agreement with it.
So overall I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her. 
Mrs B has told us that she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer when she 
applied for the PPI, and had another insurance policy so she didnt  need  the cover. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mrs Bs sick pay, and for longer than she would have 
received full pay. The PPI would also have covered Mrs B in circumstances that her other  
policy wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for her.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
Ref: DRN53248602But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said - but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mrs B any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mrs B the difference between 
what Mrs B owes and what she wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mrs B 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off their credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5324860