K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  wont pay for damage to his conservatory under 
his home  insurance  policy.
background
Mr O contacted UKI to make a claim after he noticed the space bars in his conservatory  
windows had bowed. UKI inspected the damage  but declined  the claim. Mr O said the 
damage had been  caused by a heatwave but UKI said the damage hadnt been  caused by a 
one-off event or an insured  peril. Mr O brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the expert details confirmed the 
damage had occurred over a long period of time and was wear  and tear. Our investigator  
confirmed this was an exclusion under  the policy and said UKI acted fairly when it declined  
to deal with the claim. Mr O didnt accept this and asked for his case to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the review Ive done I see that UKI and its experts did consider what  Mr O had said. I 
note that it said if the windows  had been new then Mr O mightve had a point. But UKI went  
on to say that the windows were more than 10 years old and that the warping wasnt  a one-
off incident. The expert  engineer who checked  the damage was unable to find that an 
insured event had occurred.  He concluded it was wear and tear that had built up over a long 
period. UKI said that warping wasnt a peril  and said it isnt covered under the policy.
As heat expansion was mentioned in the details our investigator did check  with experts  to be 
sure that the damage wasnt linked to a heatwave.  The expert confirmed to her that the 
damage wasnt linked to a heatwave. It confirmed that the timescale was too short for it to be 
a heatwave issue. The expert maintained it wasnt a one-off event and that it was wear and 
tear.
The policy excludes  wear  and tear and the expert advice concluded this was the cause of 
the damage. Based on the evidence and the further  checks carried  out by UKI I think  it acted 
reasonably when it declined to deal with Mr Os claim.
Ref: DRN51058302my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against UK Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5105830