K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc failed to update an alert on his credit 
card account  when it was transferred to the business which meant he incurred late payment  
charges. He also complains about poor communication and failures to update his email  
address.
background 
Mr Bs credit  card was transferred over to RBS in 2018. He had a payment alert set up with 
the previous provider but he didnt receive  alerts when the account moved over.  As he was 
relying on the alerts to remind him to make payments, he was late making  some  payments 
so he complained to RBS.  It didnt uphold his complaint initially but it did refund one late 
payment fee as a gesture of goodwill. Mr B wasnt happy with this and he complained  about  
further communication problems, including RBS failure to update his email address when he 
changed it on the account.  He didnt feel he got an adequate response so he came to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think RBS was responsible for all the errors Mr B complained  about 
but thought RBS couldve handled Mr Bs account  and his concerns better. So she 
recommended that RBS should pay Mr B £150  as compensation for the trouble this had 
caused him and should amend his email address on the account. The business accepted  
this but Mr B didnt  think the compensation was enough so he asked for review by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its unfortunate that the Mr Bs had so 
many issues  since  his credit card account  was taken over by RBS. But I dont think RBS can 
be held responsible for all the issues hes had making payments. RBS refunded one late 
payment charge as a goodwill gesture. But I dont think RBS was responsible  for all failed 
payments  for example  a faster payment failed because of an incorrect  account  number 
being entered online. In those circumstances, I wouldnt expect RBS to follow  up with the 
customer to check details.
But RBS couldve responded better to Mr Bs concerns. Its now said the alert can be set up 
by Mr B online and apologised for not clarifying  that earlier. And its recognised  that it failed 
to respond to other queries  he raised. Based on the evidence Ive seen, it also failed to 
update his email  when  hed changed it online. So taking  all this into account, I think the £150 
is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble RBS caused  Mr B. I understand Mr B 
thinks this isnt enough, but, while every  situation is different, this amount is in line with the 
kind of awards we make in similar circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc 
should pay Mr B £150 as compensation for the trouble its poor service caused him and 
should make  sure his email address is correctly updated in the system.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Ref: DRN55466132Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5546613