K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains RCI Financial Services Limited has unfairly recorded a fraud  marker  against 
his name.   He would  like it to be removed.
background 
Mr K made an application to finance  a car with RCI.  He  says the sales  adviser completed 
his details on the application  form before submitting it  and that he was never given the 
opportunity to sign the form before  this was done.
He subsequently discovered a fraud  marker against  his name  which had been loaded by 
RCI for providing false employer and salary details during the application process.   RCI said 
Mr K did not work for L as he had suggested  and had inflated the salary figure in order  to 
have his application for finance approved.
Mr K complained but his complaint was not withheld.  RCI said it had fairly  applied the 
marker.  But Mr K said he had provided  sufficient information to show he was employed by L 
- so, he brought  the complaint to this service.
Our investigator saw further evidence to show Mr K did in fact work for L. But she agreed 
that whilst  Mr K may have  quoted a higher figure on his salary  than he could in fact prove,  
RCI did not have  sufficient evidence upon  which to load the marker.
She thought  RCI should remove the marker and pay Mr K £150  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr K agreed with this but RCI did not. It maintained  it had sufficient evidence  to act how it 
did.  It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one.  As the investigator has explained   the 
guidance from CIFAS states  that RCI need  to have reasonable grounds to believe  a crime 
has been committed or attempted and the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous 
such that it could  confidently report it to the police.
I cant see how RCI can satisfy that test based on the information (or lack of) it possessed at 
the time it decided to record the marker. And I cant see that it ever went back  to Mr K in 
order to make a genuine  attempt  to clarify  the discrepancies.
I also take into account that the application  is completed by a sale adviser  and not Mr K 
himself.  He says he did not have  the opportunity to look over the form before it was 
submitted.
I cant be sure what Mr K was earning  in October  2018 when  he made the application for 
finance as the payslips  he has provided  are all from 2019 onwards.  But, on balance,  I dont 
think RCI had sufficient  evidence to satisfy the test set down by CIFAS.
Ref: DRN51128442my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
RCI Financial  Service  Limited should:
-remove the CIFAS marker  placed on Mr Ks record
-pay Mr K £150 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5112844