K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about the delay and poor service caused by Society of Lloyds when 
he called  for assistance  under his breakdown recovery policy.
For the purpose of my decision all reference  to Society of Lloyds includes its agents.
background 
Mr B arrived  at a port in his car when it started to smoke. He called his insurer,  Lloyds for 
assistance.
A recovery agent attended  but wasnt able to repair  Mr Bs car. So it recovered  Mr Bs car to 
a service station about 40 miles away where  a second recovery agent would take Mr B and 
his car to his home address. This was a further  75 miles away.
Mr B waited just over two hours for the first recovery agent to attend.  From  the time he was 
dropped off at the service station to the time the second recovery  agent attended, Mr B had 
waited just under a further four hours. 
Mr B complained to Lloyds. He said he made  numerous calls to it during the day and had 
asked to speak  to a supervisor  but one didnt call him back  when promised. He was unhappy  
that it was the first recovery agent  who told him it couldnt take him home. Mr B believes this 
was something Lloyds should have  updated  him about sooner. 
Lloyds apologised  to Mr B. It said it had offered Mr B the option of overnight accommodation 
and/or a courtesy car  but because Mr Bs car wasnt lockable he didnt feel it was safe to 
leave it. While it understood his reasons, Lloyds said this wasnt something it could be held 
responsible for. 
It said it dealt with the first part of the recovery in a reasonable period of time. It didnt think  it 
was wrong for the recovery agent  as an agent  of Lloyds   to update Mr B when he arrived 
that he would be recovered home by a second  agent. 
Lloyds said it actively looked to obtain a second  recovery agent. It offered Mr B £75 
compensation for the delay it caused during the second recovery. 
Mr B remained unhappy,  so he asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought  
Lloyds should  increase  the level of compensation it paid to £150 for the delay and poor 
service. She thought  there were  opportunities during  the first recovery for Lloyds to have 
updated Mr B more regularly  and a supervisor should have called  him back  sooner as 
agreed.
For the second recovery, she though it was unreasonable  for Mr B to have waited for four 
hours. She could only find one record of Lloyds searching for a second recovery  agent 
between 5pm  two hours after the first recovery agent attended - and 7pm that day. 
The investigator thought Lloyds could  have done  more to locate a second  recovery  agent 
sooner. 
Lloyds disagreed. In summary it says:
Ref: DRN52717152The investigator has referred to a six hour wait. Even  if the first recovery  agent had 
been able to take Mr B home  in one journey, there would have been a minimum of 
two hours on the journey, so this should  be taken into account  when  considering any 
delay. 
It doesnt agree that it could have started  searching for a second  recovery agent 
sooner than it did.
It accepts  it caused some delay and poor service. But Lloyds believes £75 
compensation is appropriate for a delay  of less than four hours while Mr B was 
waiting at a service station with amenities.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
I agree  with the investigators recommendations to put things right. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs policy  with Lloyds doesnt give a timescale  for when a recovery agent  will arrive.  
Even so, this doesnt mean that we cant consider what we think is a fair and reasonable 
waiting time.  
It isnt in dispute that the waiting time for the first recovery agent to attend  was about two 
hours. Mr B called for assistance at 2.22pm  and the agent arrived  at 4.25pm. I think  the first 
period of recovery was handled with a reasonable period of time. 
Mr B was dropped off at service station  40 miles away from the port by the first recovery 
agent who explained to Mr B that he wouldnt be able to take him to his home address. This 
was something that was covered under Mr Bs policy. According to the notes,  Mr B was 
dropped off at 5.41pm 
A second recovery agent collected Mr B and his car at approximately  9.45pm to complete 
the recovery journey  home. So this was a further  four hour wait. 
I understand Mr B was offered  alternatives  such as staying overnight or using  a courtesy car. 
But it appears that the reason why his car isnt lockable  is because it has no roof. This is a 
feature of the classic  car  one which Lloyds  was prepared to provide insurance  cover for as 
Mr Bs policy  provides a breakdown service  for a classic  car. So I can understand why these 
alternatives werent suitable for Mr B. 
From the notes it seems  Lloyds was aware  of the need for a relay recovery service  for Mr B 
by around 5pm. But a second  recovery agent wasnt located until 6.52pm. Lloyds said this 
agent was on another  recovery so it couldnt give an estimated time of arrival  (ETA).  
During one of Mr Bs calls, he asked Lloyds to arrange for a supervisor to call him back. At 
3.40pm Lloyds told Mr B a supervisor would call him back  within a few minutes.  But this 
didnt happen  and Mr B called  a further  three times  before  he was able to speak to a 
supervisor. 
I think Lloyds should have done more  to manage Mr Bs expectations  and keep him 
updated. And I think it caused unreasonable delay. 
Ref: DRN52717153We havent taken  into account the journey time home. Weve looked at the wait time for the 
second recovery  which was four hours.  And while I agree that the first recovery  time was 
handled within a reasonable  period  of time,  Mr Bs journey home took several  hours longer 
because the first recovery agent  only took him part of the way.
So for the poor service and delay of four hours,  I dont think Lloyds £75 compensation offer 
is enough. So I think it should increase this to £150. I think this is a fair and reasonable sum 
to reflect  the distress and inconvenience it caused  Mr B.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Society of Lloyds to pay Mr B a total of £150  compensation  for the poor service and delay it 
caused. 
Society of Lloyds must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr B accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Society  of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5271715