K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the charges  Close  Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) asked him to 
pay when he terminated his finance agreement  with them.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used car in February 2016.  He financed the deal through  a four year 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the start of the agreement  the car had 
already completed  70,000 miles and was about  six years old.
He voluntarily terminated the deal in late 2018.  But the first collection of the vehicle  was 
aborted when  an inspection  identified  that the Engine Management Light was illuminated.  
Mr B was disappointed that this meant  he was charged £85 for the aborted inspection and 
had to pay an additional finance  instalment when the collection had to be re-arranged.
When that collection took place the vehicle was inspected for damage.  Mr B was unhappy 
that Close Brothers asked  him to pay to repair a bumper that they said had damage beyond  
what would  be considered reasonable wear and tear. He said the dent, that he thought was 
more of a crack, had been there when the car had been sold to him and he said that was 
why the car was cheaper than expected.
Close Brothers explained that the terms of Mr Bs finance agreement explained that cars 
could not be collected if the engine management  light was illuminated. So they said they 
were entitled  to charge for the cancelled collection.  They explained that this resulted in a 
further finance instalment being  due as Mr B had to keep  the car for longer. 
They went  on to consider the damaged bumper but they didnt have any evidence that the 
damage was there at the point of sale so they didnt  uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
He therefore referred  it to this service and our investigator reviewed it. He thought the 
collection fee and the additional instalment  were  fairly chargeable as he thought  it would be 
wrong for Close Brothers  to collect a car that could  have significant damage  and this may be 
the case if the EML was illuminated. He explained that, despite Mr Bs assertion the fault 
was trivial,  the inspector wasnt to know that and the fault couldve been more  severe.
He went on to consider  the damaged bumper. He noted that the finance agreement  allowed 
Close Brothers to charge  Mr B for any damage  considered beyond normal  wear and tear 
and that this was meant to protect the business from incurring losses. Close  Brothers 
explained that they didnt  arrange any repairs for the car and that it sold at auction for 
£1,400. The investigator reviewed the valuation reports for a car of this age and mileage and 
noted that that was the value that they should  have attained. So he didnt think it was fair to 
charge Mr B for the repair when  it was clear theyd achieved the requisite value for the car. 
He said it wasnt fair for Close Brothers to make  a profit from the situation.  So he thought  
they should waive the charge theyd  made  to have  the bumper refurbished.
But Close Brothers  disagreed. They said they had the right to charge  for a repair whether it 
was completed or not and they said that, as Mr B had voluntarily terminated  his agreement 
early, they had lost revenue on it. They therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN54840012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the collection charge
I dont think it was unreasonable  for the Close Brothers to refuse  to collect the vehicle when 
it had an EML illuminated. They werent  to know that this was a simple issue,  regardless of 
any history the car may have had. 
And I think its reasonable to say that Mr B shouldve expected  this would be a problem and 
if delays resulted, as they did here,  there would be costs in arranging  a re-collection.
And as the agreement  overran whilst  a new date was organised I dont think Close Brothers 
were wrong to charge a further instalment on the finance agreement  as Mr B still had 
possession and use of the car.
the damage charge
This car had already  completed 70,000 miles at the point of supply  and was six years old.
Close Brothers needed to take into account the mileage and age of the car when  considering 
whether the damage their inspector had identified with the bumper was in excess of fair wear 
and tear. Ive reviewed  the limited photographic  evidence and can see some  damage but Im 
not persuaded that was beyond normal  wear  and tear. I say that because:
the usual guidance of what  is acceptable wear and tear is provided by the British  
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association,  But this is for use on new vehicles and in 
the absence of any explanation of how Close Brothers or their third party inspector 
has taken account of the age of the vehicle, I think its likely that was the standard  
used.
I think that was too severe a standard and if Close Brothers had taken into account  
the condition of the car as a whole they should have waived this charge
Im supported in this thinking because I can see the vehicle  sold for £1,400 and the 
investigator obtained valuation quotes  of between  £1,140 and £1,425 for a car in 
clean condition of this age and mileage. So that would suggest the car was in a clean 
condition and Close Brothers received a return on the car that was at least  as good,  if 
not better than they couldve expected
the dealership  Close  Brothers  spoke to suggested this was an easy  repair and would 
only cost them £60 to £70 to complete. Whilst I understand that their costs would be 
lower than a commercial quote, I think this supports my view that a charge for this 
Ref: DRN54840013damage was unreasonable and that the damage  didnt  significantly impact on the 
value Close  Brothers  were able to recoup.
So I dont  think its fair or reasonable  for Close Brothers to charge Mr B for the refurbishment 
of the bumper.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Close Brothers 
Limited to waive  the charge theyve levied  for refurbishment of the bumper on the car Mr B 
was financing through them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5484001