K822xComplaint
Mr G is unhappy with the response  of Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer  
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Background 
Mr G was approached by a company that supplied and installed solar panel  systems. Ill 
refer to the company as M. Following  a meeting, Mr G agreed to enter into a contract with 
M for it to supply and install a solar panel  system  costing £8,755.  To fund this, Mr G also 
agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF).
Mr G made  a claim under Section 75 (s75) of the CCA via his representative. The 
representative said that M had made  a number  of verbal misrepresentations to Mr G about 
the solar panel  system that had induced him to enter  into the contract. It also said there had 
been a number of breaches of contract. In summary, the points the representative made 
were:
M had told Mr G that the system would pay for itself within the term of the loan and 
would come at no cost to him.
The system  would require no maintenance over its 25 year lifetime  whereas it was 
likely that the inverter  would need  to be replaced  at least  once during the lifetime of 
the system at a cost of around  £1,000. The northwest facing panels were also prone 
to moss and lichen  and this was a cost that Mr G hadnt expected to incur.  
The solar panels breached a number of the MCS requirements. These included the 
panels being installed too close  to the roofs edge, incorrectly fastened wiring, wiring 
diagrams and shutdown procedures not located  in line with guidelines, no fire 
warning notice.
The panels had been installed with the incorrect fixings and this has caused water  
ingress and damage to a ceiling in Mr Gs home.
To support its position on the quality  of the installation, the representative also supplied  an 
independent report  that highlighted the above issues.
To put things right, the representative asked BPF to:
Reduce the amount of the loan so that Mr G would pay no more than the expected  
benefits over the 10 year term of the loan.
Arrange and pay for the repair work to rectify the damage  caused to his property.
To refund any overpayments Mr G had made  with 8% simple interest.
Pay £1,000  to cover  the cost of a replacement inverter.
Pay a lump sum of £7,080 so Mr G could arrange for his system to be bought in line 
with the MCS guidelines.
Ref: DRN56722262In its final response letter,  BPF said that it didnt think M had misrepresented  the benefits  of 
the solar panel  system to Mr G. It did offer, as a gesture of goodwill, a lump sum payment of 
£3,415 to cover the costs of rectifying  the issues that had been  identified in the independent 
report.
Unhappy with this, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. 
During the course of our investigation BPF made an offer to resolve Mr Gs complaint. It 
said:
It had calculated the potential savings and income to Mr G from the solar panels over 
the 10 year term of the loan.  It then said it would restructure the loan so he would pay 
no more than this over the original 10 year loan term. As Mr G had settled his BPF 
loan, he had paid more than the overall benefits and would receive this overpayment 
as a lump sum. BPF had also added  8% simple interest to the overpayments.
BPF had also arranged for its own expert  to attend Mr Gs home,  with his permission, 
to inspect the solar  panels. Following this inspection, it agreed to arrange and pay for 
the necessary  repairs to be completed.
The inspection said that it couldnt  confirm whether the solar panels had been 
specifically designed to be installed as close to the roofs edge without carrying  out a 
more invasive survey. 
It offered  to pay Mr G £300 for the trouble  and upset  caused.
It believed that the issue  with moss and lichen  on the northwest facing panels was Mr 
Gs responsibility to deal with and were  part of the expected  maintenance with the 
panels.
One of our investigators  considered whether the offer from BPF was fair. She thought it was 
as BPF had offered to carry out the repairs that had been identified and ensure that Mr G 
didnt suffer a financial loss by making  his panels cost neutral over the 10 year term of the 
loan.
Mr G didnt accept the offer from BPF.  In summary  he said there was still internal  damage to 
his property that hadnt been taken into account in BPFs offer.
BPF arranged for a further inspection to be carried out on the internal damage at Mr Gs 
property. Following this, BPF agreed  to include the repair to the ceiling in its offer.  In 
summary, the overall offer from BPF was to:
Calculate the potential  savings and income  to Mr G from the solar  panel system over 
the 10 year loan term and then restructure the loan so he would pay no more  than 
this. As Mr G had paid more than the expected benefits from the solar panel system 
BPF would  refund  him the amount hed overpaid  plus 8% simple interest.
BPF would arrange and pay for the necessary repair work to the installation of the 
solar panel system  and Mr Gs home.
BPF would pay Mr G £300 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN56722263Mr G didnt accept the offer from BPF.  In response  he said:
His system  was not facing SSE or SSW.
There was shading  from his chimney  on the solar panel system which significantly 
reduced the solar  panels output.
The salesperson  for M had told him that his system would pay for itself in 3 to 4 
years, not over the term of the loan.
Damage had been caused to his property due to the poor quality of the installation.
He wanted  £5,000  as compensation.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says he was approached by M and during a sales meeting told that the solar panel  
system would be entirely self-financing. Neither  Mr G nor BPF dispute that the benefits  of the 
solar panel  system were  misrepresented. As a result, this decision will deal with what  I 
consider to be fair compensation.
Self-funding offer 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Ive considered whether it would be fair for BPF to arrange for the removal  of the solar  
panels from Mr Gs home  and refund him all payments he had made toward the loan,  minus  
any benefits he had received. Here, I dont think it would be fair or proportionate to require 
the removal of the solar  panels from his home. Rather, I think  fair compensation is to try and 
make sure that Mr G doesnt  suffer a financial loss due to the misrepresentation which,  in my 
view, would mean that the solar panel system would be cost neutral over the 10 year loan 
term. By allowing Mr G to keep the panels, Im satisfied that he will likely benefit from lower  
electricity bills and FIT payments going  forward.
Mr G has said that he was told that the solar panels would pay for themselves  within  3 to 4 
years. Ive carefully  reviewed the information  supplied with his complaint including the 
contract and quote  from M as well as the initial complaint letter  to BPF.
I havent seen  anything in the sales documentation  from M that suggests that the solar 
panels would pay for themselves within 3 to 4 years. Ive also considered that the initial letter  
of complaint to BPF doesnt mention  this time period and refers to the salesperson telling Mr 
G that the System  would pay for itself within the period of his loan and cost him nothing.
Ref: DRN56722264Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the offer to make the solar panel system 
cost neutral over the term of the loan is fair.
Ive carefully considered  the methodology BPF has submitted to this service to calculate the 
total benefits of the system.  This methodology is based on the actual performance and 
estimated future performance of Mr Gs solar panel  system.
To calculate the actual performance  of Mr Gs solar  panel system, BPF will use his FIT 
statements and electricity  bills. By doing this, Im satisfied that the offer from BPF takes into 
account that Mr Gs solar panels are not in direct sunlight throughout the day and therefore  
will reflect the reduced output from his system caused by any shading.
BPF has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Gs solar 
panel system, it will use a number of assumptions. Having considered  these, Im satisfied 
that the assumptions that have been  used by BPF provide a fair and reasonable basis for 
calculating fair compensation.
Ive also considered that Mr G settled  his BPF loan early by refinancing  to a different lender.
Usually I would ask BPF to take into account the amount paid towards  the second loan when 
calculating the overall amount that Mr G paid for his solar panel system.  This is because I 
would expect BPF to take into account the additional  cost caused by refinancing to ensure 
that Mr G paid no more  than the overall  financial benefits he is estimated to receive  over 10 
years. 
Due to the time that has passed  since this loan has been settled, Mr G is unable  to provide 
any paperwork to show the overall amount he paid back on the second loan. So, there isnt 
any paperwork available to allow BPF to quantify  this additional cost.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that the current offer from BPF, to make  Mr Gs 
solar panel  system cost neutral  over the 10 year loan term, is fair.
Damage caused  to the roof and internally
There isnt a disagreement that the solar panels were installed  incorrectly, and this has 
allowed water  to enter into Mr Gs home  causing  damage to roof rafters and the internal 
decorations in one room.
BPF has agreed to pay for and carry out the repair work that is required to rectify these 
issues. Im satisfied that this is fair.
Quality of the installation
Both the expert  report  for Mr G and the report completed by BPF confirm  that the quality of 
the installation  wasnt to the standard  that Mr G should have expected  from M.
BPF has offered to carry out all the repair  work highlighted including,  correctly fastening 
wiring, installing wiring  diagrams and shutdown procedures not located in line with guidelines  
and a fire warning  notice.
The report  provided  by Mr Gs representative set out that, based on a visual inspection, the 
solar panels  had been installed too close to the roofs edge.  BPFs report  couldnt  
Ref: DRN56722265conclusively confirm whether the panels  had been  designed to be installed close  to the roofs 
edge. 
BPF arranged for the opinion of a separate solar panel expert.  They said:
Whats being asked  here is a challenge and is unlikely to result  in a definitive  answer  so 
need to manage  expectations. To determine if the installation has been undertaken correctly 
in this context:
1. Id need to undertake a fresh wind uplift calculation for each  property taking into account 
the edge zone (this is easy)
2. Determine which roof fixing hooks have  been used because each fixing hook has a 
maximum upward force it can resist  before it breaks/deforms etc.
3. Its then possible to calculate the necessary number  of roof hooks  that should have been  
used to withstand the maximum calculated wind uplift on the array of solar panels
4. Count if at least that number of hooks are present
5. Assess if each hook  has been  fixed to the roof timbers in accordance with the 
manufacturers instructions (e.g. correct  type of screws used  etc).
6. Assess if the rest of the mounting system  (rails, clamps)  etc are secure and nothings 
worked loose (this is easy).
The main  challenge  is 2. Above identifying the manufacturer/type  of roof hook that has been  
used because they rarely have the manufacturers name or model marked on them  and there 
is potentially hundreds of them which can all look similar (I attach a picture).  To check if 
theyve been fixed correctly is also a challenge  because if I cant identify the manufacturer, I 
cant then identify the exact type of fixing screw that should have  been  used from the 
manufacturers instructions.
Taking into account the information above,  I cant conclude  that the solar panels  have been 
installed too close to the roofs  edge as it isnt clear whether the panels have been designed 
to be installed as close as they have been.
The MCS guidance explains  that:
The requirement to keep  an arrays  away  from a the edge  of a roof is suggested because:  
taking arrays close to the roof edge  may adversely affect rain drainage routes;  and when 
retrofitting systems, there is the potential for damage to ridge,  hip, valley  or eaves  details.
Ive taken into account that the solar panel system  was installed a number of years  ago. And 
on that basis, I think it is more likely  than not that any adverse damage that could have  been  
installed if the panels werent designed  to be installed as close to the roofs  edge as they 
have been, would have occurred by now. And it hasnt.
Therefore, I wont be asking BPF to take any further  steps in regard to the particular issue  of 
the closeness of the solar panels  to the roofs  edge.
In summary,  Im satisfied  the work that BPF has agreed to arrange and pay for to make  Mr 
Gs solar panel system  compliant with MCS guidelines is fair.
Ongoing maintenance costs
Ref: DRN56722266Ive looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels  dont need a lot of maintenance but that the inverter  will need  replacing 
sometime during the lifetime of the panels  at a current cost of about £800.
I accept that Mr G could have some maintenance and repair costs over the lifetime of the 
solar panels.  The proposed approach to put things right for Mr G is to make the solar panels 
cost neutral over the original term of the loan. Once the loan has been  repaid,  as it has in 
this case, Mr G is highly  likely  to enjoy significant  benefit from the solar  panel system by way 
of savings and the FIT income going  forward. 
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that the potential  benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs. Therefore, Im not persuaded that BPF should make  an award 
for maintenance and repair costs.
Trouble and upset
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr G first 
contacted BPF that means his claim should have  been upheld. The fact this this didnt 
happen undoubtedly caused  him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make  an award of 
£300 to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Gs complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited, must:
allow Mr G to keep the solar panels,
estimate the potential  income and savings to Mr G from the solar panels  over the 10 
year term of the loan and rework  it so he pays no more  than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr Gs electricity  bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of settlement,
arrange, and pay for, the required repair work  to bring the installation  of the solar 
panel system in line with MCS  guidelines,
arrange, and pay for, the repair work  required to the roof and the ceiling in Mr Gs 
home; and,
pay Mr G £300  for the trouble and upset  caused.
*If Clydesdale  Financial Service Limited  consider  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr G how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr G a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Ref: DRN56722267Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5672226