K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  this complaint. Mrs C 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs C says she cant remember what happened  at the point of sale but she believes  the 
store card application was completed  in store by an employee who ticked  the box 
selecting PPI and then presented the application  to Mrs C to sign. Ive seen a copy of the 
store card application form Mrs C saw and signed which  included  a section for PPI. In 
this section Mrs C has signed  to agree to the cover. This signature is separate and 
additional to her signature to agree to the credit.  And there is nothing  here to indicate 
that she had to sign in this section   so I think Mrs C wouldve  known  she couldve left 
this section blank  if she didnt  want the PPI.
So based  on what Ive seen I think FICL  made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if the policy was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed  to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs C says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sufficient employee sick pay 
at the time. However, for no more than £1.00 per £100  of the outstanding monthly 
balance the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Mrs Cs outstanding monthly balance, 
until she returned to work or the outstanding balance had been paid off. This wouldve 
paid out in addition to the PPI and for longer than Mrs Cs full sick pay wouldve lasted 
her. Ive also not seen any evidence that Mrs C had any other  savings or insurance to 
Ref: DRN50843462cover her in the event  she was made redundant. So overall  I still think the PPI wouldve 
been useful for Mrs C and I dont  think better  information about the cost and benefit  of 
the policy wouldve  changed her decision to take out the cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5084346