K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited applied unfair charges in 
respect of excess mileage and damage  when he returned his vehicle following  the voluntary 
termination of his finance agreement. He wants the charges waived or reduced.  
background 
Mr B told us that after hed arranged to voluntarily terminate his hire purchase agreement  the 
vehicle had been inspected on behalf of VWFS. And hed then been invoiced for additional  
charges in respect of excess mileage and damage.  He says he wasnt  given the chance to 
have any repairs carried out as the vehicle  had been  sold shortly after collection. Mr B 
explains that prior to returning the vehicle  hed had it examined privately by some  colleagues  
with industry experience.  He disputed some aspects  of VWFS assessment of the damage.  
And he said hed arranged to have any necessary repairs carried  out at cost. He feels  this 
wouldve been a much cheaper option  than the charges applied  by VWFS.
VWFS told us that the vehicle had been inspected by industry experts,  a company Ill refer to 
as BC.  It said the inspection had been carried out with reference to the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. It said it had 
removed one charge  (£36)  in respect  of damage to the left hand  rear wheel as the 
photographs didnt  show the damage  clearly enough. But it said the charges for the other  
three aspects of damage would remain.
Our investigator thought VWFS had acted fairly.  And that the charges for damage which it 
was applying were  outside BVRLA fair wear  and tear guidelines. He noted that VWFS had 
waived its claim  for excess mileage charges.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. He maintained that hed been deprived of the 
chance to have the repairs done at less cost than charged by VWFS. As its not been 
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B feels strongly about  the subject matter of this complaint. And I understand 
that the imposition  of further charges upon the return of the vehicle would be an unwelcome 
additional expense.
Mr Bs original  complaint  included excess mileage charges but as VWFS has now agreed to 
waive these I dont  need to consider this aspect  further.
This leaves  the issue of damage. I think its fair to characterise the substance of Mr Bs 
complaint as involving two main  elements.  He disputes that some of the alleged  damage 
falls outside BVRLA  fair wear and tear guidelines. He further asserts  that - even where it did 
so - the charge applied by VWFS  was excessive. And that he was deprived of the 
opportunity to arrange for the repairs to be completed himself.
Ref: DRN54406122Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Where theres a dispute about the facts - as is the case  here - I reach my conclusions  on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
VWFS is seeking to apply  charges for three  items of damage. This comprises a gouge  to the 
left hand front tyre; a scratch  to the left hand front wheel; and a scratch  to the right hand rear 
wheel spoke. The charges, excluding VAT, have been assessed at £36 for each of the 
scratches and £187.29 for the tyre replacement.
Its my understanding that Mr B doesnt dispute  that the two former items  are damaged.  Ive 
viewed the colour  photographs provided by BC. Im satisfied the relevant photograph shows 
scratches to the wheel spoke. This is outside BVRLA guidelines as no damage  to a wheel 
spoke is acceptable.  For completeness  I also examined the other  photographs.  The damage  
identified in them - for which VWFS  is applying charges - is also outside  the relevant  
guidelines.
Mr B suggests he wasnt given an opportunity to repair the vehicle prior to it being collected.  
I dont agree with this assertion. Mr B told us he received a letter from VWFS dated 8 
November 2017  which included details about  the termination process. BCs inspection  was 
carried out on 28 November 2017.  Thats a three week  period. Ive seen a copy of this letter  
and it also explains that the vehicle inspection  and collection are arranged  on separate  dates 
to allow  for a customer to arrange for remedial  work  to be done. 
Mr B explains that at the end of November he received  a phone call enquiring about where 
the vehicle was located. He said he advised the caller that the vehicle was located at a third 
party dealership where hed left it. Mr B has told us that prior to the inspection  hed arranged 
for the vehicle to be examined by his own experts. I havent seen any information to show 
these individuals  were  qualified to BVRLA standards. But if - as hes suggested - they were 
capable of making judgements about  the damage  then Im not sure why the vehicle wasnt 
repaired prior to the inspection. The damage  comprised minor  scratches  to two wheels and a 
replacement tyre was required. It doesnt  seem likely that very much time would be required 
for these  items to be repaired.
Mr B has advised that he was looking  to have the damage repaired  as part of a future deal. 
I do not doubt that this was his intention. But it was open to him to explain this to VWFS and 
agree a collection date after repairs were complete.
I dont think theres anything to show the charges applied  by VWFS are unreasonable or 
more than Id expect. The charges fall within the range that this service typically  sees  and 
awards in such complaints.
Ref: DRN54406123Nor have  I seen any actual figures which allow comparison between  what Mr B estimates he 
wouldve paid and that charged by VWFS. Bearing  in mind the limited nature of the damage  
and the requirement  that it be repaired to high standards its unlikely that there would be 
much, if any, difference between the costs  VWFS charged and those applied by a different 
business. Even at trade rates.
In summary,  I find VWFS has applied the end of contract  damage  charges in line with the 
terms of the finance  agreement. And that the charges are reasonable.
I accept my decision  will come as a disappointment  to Mr B. But in removing the charges for 
excess mileage and reducing the original charge for damage I find VWFS has acted fairly. 
Im upholding this complaint but only to the extent that Ive indicated above.
my final decision
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  has made an offer to waive excess  mileage 
charges. I find that this is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Subject to the waiving of excess mileage charges I shant require Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to do anything else in respect of charges applied  for damage outside 
of fair wear  and tear guidelines.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5440612