K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained American  Express Services Europe Limited wont refund him for 
transactions he didnt  make in October  2016.
background
As Mr E flew back into the UK on 12 October 2016  he got both an email and automated 
phone message from Amex that his card had been  blocked following potential fraud activity. 
He then realised  it was missing and confirmed this to Amex  in an early morning call. He felt 
Amex confirmed to him these transactions would be blocked. They  werent. Although in fact 
they had blocked two attempted  transactions.
Mr E ended up disputing  three large  transactions. One was made in the evening of 
10 October and two were  made later in the afternoon of 11 October just before  Mr E left to 
get a plane home. The three  transactions were  for £1,567.48,  £2,788.39  and £2,881.10.  
These all took place in bars or nightclubs. After  the first transaction  and just before the last 
two Mr E recalled he was in a bar having  a beer before  catching  the flight  home. Mr E says 
he didnt recall being in any clubs.
Amex confirmed they wouldnt refund any of the money to Mr E because:
Thered been  undisputed transactions after Mr E said his card was stolen;
All transactions were completed with the genuine card and PIN;
Mr E had breached  his terms and conditions by keeping a written record of the PIN; 
and
Theyd seen evidence to show Mr E was definitely in the first nightclub.
Mr E brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.  He rejected the idea hed made  
these transactions  himself.
Our adjudicator carried out a detailed investigation.  She didnt believe Mr Es card could 
have been used fraudulently on 10 October  and then available  for his genuine use earlier on 
11 October before the last two disputed transactions. So not everything fitted into the pattern 
Mr E suggested. Shed  also noted  Amex had blocked two further attempted withdrawals so 
didnt think Amex could  be accused  of not sufficiently monitoring Mr Es account.  She shared 
evidence showing Mr E in the first club where  transactions took place  along  with written 
receipts from the second bar which had been  provided to Amex.  Our adjudicator  noted  these 
could have been prepared after the event and there was nothing to show  the signature was 
Mr Es.
Overall she wasnt going  to ask Amex  to do anything further. 
Mr E disagreed with this outcome.  He temporarily  asked an expert  into fraud-related cases  
to represent him to consider the evidence. Our adjudicator shared information  that Amex  had 
given us to show  the transactions had been  verified using chip and PIN and that this had 
been Mr Es genuine  card.
Mr Es representative posited a scenario  which could show  that Mr E had not authorised the 
first transaction at 21:53 on 10 October. This would involve a staff member using Mr Es card 
at nearly the same  time he carried out a genuine  transaction (at 20:25) to carry out the 
disputed transaction  on behalf of an establishment that Mr E wasnt in at the time. This was 
Ref: DRN57178052enabled by Mr Es location where bars, restaurants and clubs were  all in very close 
proximity.
Our adjudicator responded to say she didnt think this was enough information to reassess  
her earlier conclusion.
Mr Es complaint has been  referred  to an ombudsman  for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 10 February  2020. I came to a different conclusion. 
This was largely based on Mr Es card being  stolen. This showed how the later two 
transactions could  have  been undertaken by a third party without Mr Es authorisation. I 
asked Amex to refund  those two transactions.
Amex disagreed with this outcome. They repeated many of the issues  theyd highlighted 
previously. They also stated:
My outcome showed that Mr E had also made  a false claim as I agreed with them  the 
first transaction had been carried out by Mr E;
They felt it was likely Mr E had ignored  their calls about pending transactions  which 
was why they were  declined;
The receipts represented a reasonable amount for what could have been consumed 
by Mr E and friends on a night  out. They clarified  the second  receipt  provided a price 
for four escorts.
Mr E asked for some  more time as he wanted to provide  further comments. He thought hed 
need only a week  as he wished to consult  an expert  in this field. I have received nothing  
further even though Ive allowed further  time than a week.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision. I have, however, considered the comments 
Amex has made carefully.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Firstly thats the law as highlighted above. In broad  terms a bank is expected  to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Ref: DRN57178053Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. I 
have taken that into account  when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty). 
Regulated firms like Amex are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
As a matter  of good industry practice, firms should also have taken proactive steps to look to 
identify and help prevent  transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions  
 that could involve fraud  or be the result of a scam  (something also recognised by the 
British Standards Institutes October  2017 Protecting Customers from Financial  harm  as a 
result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a number of banks and trade 
associations were involved in the development of). Obviously the BSI Code doesnt apply 
here as these transactions took place in October 2016.
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Amex acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mr E, or whether it should have  done  more than it did. Mr E has not paid the disputed 
transactions and he is now being  pursued for this debt.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Amex  and Mr E have  told us. Our adjudicator  was unable to get hold of Mr Es 
call to Amex on 12 October  as they no longer  retained it. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our adjudicators view of 30 October 2017. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
Ive gone a different route with what I believe happened here. The following issues  are key to 
my outcome:
Theres no dispute Mr E was out and about,  eating and drinking with friends  and 
colleagues, on 10 and 11 October after finishing a major piece of work and prior to 
flying back to the UK.
When our adjudicator talked to Mr E in detail in July 2017, he couldnt  recall quite a 
bit of detail. This is not massively surprising. I can see from Mr Es itinerary he travels 
Ref: DRN57178054a great  deal and tends  to use his cards rather than anything else.  Hes always felt 
safe using his Amex card because he felt his use was protected.
He was able to confirm hed been  out with people hed been working with at the end 
of a job. Theyd gone to a range of places in the evening after the job had finished.  
He handed over his card a number of times to pay for things.
Unlike in the UK it wasnt  unusual to have the card taken away and inserted into the 
terminal without being aware  exactly what was going on.
Mr E admitted hed written down his PIN in the past but didnt keep this with his cards 
(which were kept in a small card wallet).  
We shared with Mr E a copy of an image  which had been supplied  to Amex  by most 
likely the first bar (where the transaction  for £1,567.48 had taken place). I say most 
likely as we saw a time stamp of 00:29 which suggests this was early in the morning 
on 11 October. This showed  him in the bar in question and was about two and a half 
hours after the disputed transaction.
Mr E didnt  dispute it was him but pointed  out this didnt show him drinking or trying  to 
buy anything in that location.
The transaction was actually carried out much earlier. Mr E admits  there  were  a 
number of transactions carried  out that evening  and Amexs  evidence supports this 
too. The timing of these transactions were  all noted in our adjudicators  view.
By using  his card and PIN, regardless of the amount on the terminal  or even whether 
Mr E didnt  notice what it said, Mr E was consenting to the transactions.
I know Mr E will find this harsh but I think Mr E did authorise the transaction he 
disputed and carried out at 21:53 on 10 October for £1,567.48.
Mr E admits  he was also out with friends  and colleagues before catching a late flight 
home on 11 October.  He disputes  the idea hed have been drinking as much  as the 
receipts supplied  by the bar in question would suggest  as he was due to catch a flight 
home. Mr E was a very regular flyer so I suspect hes well aware of the dangers of 
flying with too much alcohol in his system.
It is more than possible  that Mr Es card(s) were stolen by someone and attempted  to 
carry out large-value transactions  in a club he wasnt in. Thered have been plenty of 
opportunity to observe his PIN and use it if his cards were accessible.
Whats clear is that Mr E only noticed his cards  (both his Amex card and a card 
belonging to his bank, H) were  missing when he arrived back  in the UK.
Ive also reviewed the receipts that were provided.  24 glasses of champagne and a 
considerable amount of other consumables. The signatures  on both receipts are 
different and theres no evidence either  are Mr Es.
Amex has disputed  this is what the receipts  state  and clarified their understanding.  
The receipt states 24 Hostess Baby Cham. 8712. I agree that it is possible this 
doesnt mean 24 glasses of champagne but, on balance, its a reasonable conclusion 
to draw.
Amex has stated  that what was consumed  wouldnt be unusual  for a night out. 
Except of course this wasnt a night out. It was the middle  of the afternoon.  That 
doesnt mean people wouldnt consume that amount of alcohol and seek out escorts 
at that time of day, just that I can see nothing in the evidence Ive been provided that 
this is something Mr E would do.
There is a reason to question the actual transactions too. These  were  timed at 15:51  
and 16:36 on the afternoon of 11 October. Then further transactions were attempted 
at 16:40 and 16:41. Amex blocked  the latter two transactions. If these had been  
genuinely done by Mr E, Id have expected him to need to call Amex  straightaway to 
release those transactions. I say this  although  I note Amex  thinks Mr E may have 
Ref: DRN57178055been choosing  not to call them  because if hed consumed items,  hed need  to be 
able to pay for them.
Im not sure I appreciate the logic that says two transactions  were fraudulent but the 
other two  for larger  amounts   couldnt have  been. I believe they were all fraudulent 
and took place whilst someone else had Mr Es card. 
Amex hasnt suggested Mr Es card use would show that he made similarly large 
transactions normally.
Mr Es other bank, H, made sure no transactions were  debited to his account that he 
disputed. Amex has asked to see this evidence but I havent seen this either. 
However I see no reason to doubt  Mr E.
I have considered the possibility that Mr E has fabricated  this story but I dont think 
he has. I dont  believe  he would  have got a fraud-related expert involved in his 
complaint if thered  been doubt  about what had happened.
Our service is aware of bars which have been  subject to a number of very similar  
complaints: threatening behaviour, over-charging,  or misleading  customers about 
what they were paying. Ive taken this into account.
Other bars  knowing that others may have a less salubrious reputation   have taken 
steps to make sure they have as much evidence as possible to present when 
payments are disputed. These have included pictures which  clearly  show what  
customers have been buying.
Mr E has told us himself that its likely he did enter his PIN whenever the terminal  was 
presented to him so I dont think its a stretch to say  under the law  he consented to the 
transaction on 10 October. However I believe he may not have  been  in possession  of his 
card on 11 October at the time the disputed transactions took place so I believe he didnt 
make or authorise those.
Amex has suggested  that because I believe Mr E did authorise the first transaction, then he 
must have  made a fraudulent  claim.  I dont agree. I think its more  than likely Mr E consented  
to the transaction but that doesnt  mean he definitively  knew the amount he was authorising.  
I see nothing wrong  with him raising a dispute  about this.
Like our adjudicator I have considered whether Mr E may have been grossly negligent in 
looking after his card and PIN but can find no evidence to support this.  
There are some situations in which Amex  should reasonably have  had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the payments being made  despite  the BSI code not applying  at 
the time.  I may have expected Amex to query the first large-value  transaction  but I need to 
take into account Amexs customer base and the service they argue they offer to those 
customers. Mr Es card type was such that they wouldnt necessarily have picked up on this 
immediately. And of course  the evidence shows they did pick up on the two latter attempts 
that were blocked.
Having considered all the evidence, I think Amex  need to adjust the debt theyre asking  Mr E 
to pay on his Amex  account. They will need to remove the payments for £2,881.10 and 
£2,788.39, and any interest or fees associated with those for non-payment, from his account.
As both parties know  because Ive been  in touch with both over the last few months  I 
have considered this complaint carefully.  There is supporting evidence for Amexs  assertion; 
likewise there is evidence  in support of Mr E. I have to decide  this case on the balance of 
probabilities, and considering the case overall and on balance  I have decided the facts 
support the outcome as Ive covered above.
Ref: DRN57178056my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  American Express Services  
Europe Limited to remove the payments for £2,881.10 and £2,788.39, and any interest or 
fees associated  with those for non-payment,  from Mr Es account:
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5717805