K820x#14complaint
Mr A says that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) didnt pay him the correct amount 
when he withdrew  cash from his account.
background
In October  2018, Mr A visited his local branch of Halifax to withdraw cash that he needed to 
pay to a builder.  He was expecting to undergo surgery in the near future  and wasnt sure 
hed be able to visit the branch later on. He withdrew  the cash  early and kept it in a locked  
cupboard. He withdrew £2,000 in total.  He says he was given two packets and was told that 
each had £1,000 inside  in £20 notes. However, when it was time to pay the builder, he 
discovered that £900 was missing from the packets.
Halifax provided the following account of what happened in branch:
 when a customer requests a large  withdrawal, the process I would follow  
would be to explain to the customer that the money  had been  dual counted  by 
two of my colleagues who have signed and sealed the bags, I asked the question  
are you happy to take these as they are or would you like me to count them  out to 
you, customer at this stage agreed to take the bags sealed as they were  
Mr A says that he wasnt asked if he wanted  the cash to be counted  out in front of him, but 
that in any event, he trusted  that the correct amounts of cash  would be in the packets. He 
complained to Halifax that the branch staff must have put the wrong amounts in the packets 
and asked for it to refund  the difference. 
Halifax rejected his complaint. It said its process  meant it was unlikely an error occurred, and 
Mr A had declined to have  the cash counted in front of him. Furthermore,  records  kept by the 
branch dont suggest that the branch  paid out £900  less in cash than it shouldve done at the 
time of Mr As visit. 
Mr A was unhappy with Halifaxs response and so he referred the complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. Mr A disagreed  with the investigators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  referred to me to come to a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Its impossible  for me to know for sure that £2,000 in cash was paid out to Mr A when he 
visited the branch  so I must look at the available evidence and consider whether its more  
likely than not that the correct amount was paid out. Ive thought about this complaint 
carefully and Im satisfied  that it is.
The branch  where  Mr A made the withdrawals has provided a record of counter  activity on 
the day of his visit in a document called a Cash control  sheet which it completed at the end 
of each business day. If Mr A had been paid £900  too little, that would mean that thered be 
an unexplained  £900 in the branch  tills. Id expect this to be reflected in this document,  but it 
isnt. Halifax has also provided a Cash error record card which, over a period of months,  
records each instance of the branch tills not balancing at the end of the day. Theres  nothing 
recorded for the day Mr A visited the branch and the discrepancies that have been recorded 
Ref: DRN56778382are generally  much  smaller than £900  I think its very unlikely that such  a significant 
underpayment couldve gone unnoticed.
I cant say for sure what  happened to the £900.  Mr A has suggested that one of the branch 
staff who counted the money couldve taken it, but such a conclusion  would require strong  
supporting evidence. Ive not seen anything to suggest this is more  likely than any other 
potential explanation. Overall whilst I recognise  the strength of feeling  Mr A has about this 
complaint, Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest Halifax  has done anything  wrong  here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5677838