K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1993  when they applied for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage in 1993, and alongside it a monthly paid PPI policy.  
Neither Nationwide nor Mr and Mrs S can say now exactly  how the policy  was sold to them.  
The policy gave Mr S only accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  It cost around £8.50 
per month and wouldve covered their mortgage  repayments of around £105.00 per month  
for up to 24 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept our adjudicators 
view and so their complaint has been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs S have said,  but Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs S had to agree to take 
it. I cant know what was discussed when PPI was taken out. Mr and Mrs S cant recall  
everything from the time of sale, but dont think they were given sufficient information to 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. They dont think the PPI was suitable for them, 
because they had enough other cover through work.  
Nationwide no longer has a copy of Mr and Mrs S paperwork from the time of sale.  What Mr 
and Mrs S have said isnt enough  on its own to make me think  that its more  likely they 
werent given a fair choice about  PPI. I think it likely  they were. So, based on the limited  
information now available,  I cant fairly  uphold their complaint on this ground.
From what  Ive seen and heard, and what we know about Nationwides sales  processes, 
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs S, so it didnt have to check  
if the PPI was suitable for their needs.  But, Nationwide did need to give Mr and Mrs S clear  
information about the PPI so they could decide whether they wanted to buy it. As this was a 
joint mortgage, in deciding this complaint I have taken into account  Mrs S circumstances 
too, even though only Mr S was covered under the policy. I cant  see that the policy  was 
inappropriate for them  because:
Mr S was eligible  for the PPI  that is, he qualified to be covered by the insurance;
Mr S wasnt affected by the main limitations  or exclusions in the policy so he couldve  
benefitted from everything the policy  offered.  So, I cant see that having better 
Ref: DRN51240612information about the things the policy didnt cover  wouldve changed  their decision to 
take out PPI;
Mr S said he was entitled to sick pay.  The policy wouldve paid out on top of his work  
benefits, and possibly for longer,  for up to 24 months per successful claim. So, I still think 
it couldve provided them with a useful benefit  in their circumstances. It wouldve allowed 
them to use Mr S work benefits  to meet their other household expenses if he was out of 
work. Given that the policy  was protecting their home, possibly  their single largest  asset, 
and they could make repeat claims on the policy, I think PPI couldve provided them  with 
long term protection.
Mrs S said she wouldve got benefits through her work too. But, I cant see that this 
made the policy inappropriate for them. It wouldve  allowed them  to use her income or 
work benefits to meet their other  household expenditure if Mr S wasnt  working.
They said they had some savings. Similarly, the PPI wouldve allowed them to use their 
savings for other household expenses at what might  be a difficult  time for them 
financially if Mr S wasnt  working. So, I cant see that their other  resources made the 
policy inappropriate, in their circumstances.
Its possible that Nationwide couldve made  the costs of the policy clearer. But, it seems 
likely they thought the cost was acceptable and affordable given that they took out the 
policy. It was a monthly paid policy so they couldve cancelled it at any time without 
losing out financially.
I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of anything that Nationwide mayve done  
wrong. Ive taken into account  everything that Mr and Mrs S have said,  but this doesnt  
change my view
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5124061