K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ms N says Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither Ms N nor FICL have provided me 
with any new information. Ive carefully considered everything and see no reason  to change 
my provisional decision.
what the business need  to do
FICL should put Ms N in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
And what FICL need to do will depend on if Ms Ns store account is still open.
if Ms Ns store card account is still open:
FICL should put Ms N in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Ms N would owe on her card if the policy  hadnt been  
added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms N owes and what she 
would have owed.
If Ms N made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when FICL works  out what Ms N would have owed each month without PPI  Ms 
N paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest 
(at 8% a year) on the extra Ms N paid. And it should carry  on paying interest until the 
point when Ms N wouldve  owed FICL something on her card.
C. FICL  should tell Ms N what its done  to work out A and B.
if Ms Ns store card account is now closed:
A.FICL  should find out how much Ms N would have owed when she closed her store  
card account if the policy hadnt been  added.
Ref: DRN52543702So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms N owed when she closed 
she account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms N made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount they owe her.
B. FICL  should add simple interest  (at 8% a year) on the difference between  what Ms N
wouldve owed when  she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets 
the refund.
C.If  when FICL works  out what Ms N would have owed each month without PPI  Ms 
N  paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest 
(at 8% a year) on the extra Ms N paid. And they should carry on paying interest until 
the point when Ms N wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card.
D.FICL  should tell Ms N what theyve done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms 
N a certificate showing how much tax FICL have taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I uphold Ms Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019. 
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out with a store  card. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL) has accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill 
refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple.  Ms N says FICL  mis-sold her the PPI policy  on her 
store card.
background
This complaint is about  a monthly premium PPI policy taken out on a store card in 1996. The
PPI covered Ms N if she was unable  to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Ref: DRN52543703Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  Ms N disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ns case.
Im upholding  Ms Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL needed to give Ms N clear information about the PPI before she agreed to take it. That included 
highlighting anything that could make  it difficult for Ms N to make a successful claim.
Ms N says she was self-employed  at the time she took the PPI. Shes told us she became  self-
employed in 1994. She has been consistent throughout her complaint and although  FICL have 
requested more information I havent seen anything to make me doubt what shes said,  so I dont 
think its necessary.
Ive looked at the policy  terms  that likely applied to Ms Ns policy when it was sold, and
I think  it wouldve  been  more difficult for Ms N to make a claim for unemployment than she wouldve 
expected. 
Before she could claim  for unemployment her business wouldve had to have stopped trading  and 
have been wound up (or be in the process of being wound up), or, her business  would have to be in 
the hands  of a liquidator.  I think  FICL shouldve  highlighted this term to Ms N  and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest it did.
So I think Ms N has lost out as a result of what FICL did wrong and so it needs to put things right.
putting things  right
FICL should put Ms N in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
And what FICL need to do will depend  on if Ms Ns store account is still open.
if Ms Ns store  card account is still open:
FICL should put Ms N in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. FICL should find out how much Ms N would  owe on her card if the policy hadnt been added  to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  premiums. It 
should also remove  any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest 
added to those charges.
FICL should then refund the difference between what Ms N owes and what she would have owed.
If Ms N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got for the claim  
from the amount  it owes her.
B. If  when FICL works  out what Ms N would have owed  each month without PPI 
Ms N paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple  interest
(at 8% a year)  on the extra  Ms N paid.  And it should carry on paying  interest until the point when Ms 
N wouldve owed FICL something on her card.
C. FICL  should tell Ms N what  its done  to work  out A and B.
if Ms Ns store  card account is now closed:
Ref: DRN52543704E.FICL should find out how much Ms N would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those  charges.
FICL should then refund the difference between what Ms N owed when she closed she 
account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  they owe her.
F. FICL  should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference  between  what Ms N
 wouldve  owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the
 refund.
G.If  when FICL works out what Ms N would have owed each month without PPI  Ms N
  paid  more  than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest (at
  8% a year) on the extra Ms N paid.  And they should carry  on paying interest until the
 point  when Ms N wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card.
H.FICL should tell Ms N what theyve done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms N a 
certificate showing  how much tax FICL have  taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN5254370