K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has incorrectly  calculated 
arrears on her mortgage account.  Ms A is also unhappy at the customer  service she 
received from RBS.
background
Ms A has a mortgage  account with RBS which, from time to time, has been in arrears. Ms A 
thinks RBS has miscalculated  the arrears.  We previously  looked at a complaint about how 
arrears had been calculated in 2016.  As a result, our investigator explained that we would 
only be considering  arrears after October 2016.
He looked at what payments were due, and what payments Ms A had made. He was 
satisfied that RBS hadnt made an error in its calculation of arrears.
The investigator also noted Ms As dissatisfaction with RBSs  customer service.  He could 
understand why Ms A might have been confused by what  appeared to be contradictory 
information in letters from RBS. But because she didnt act on the correspondence from RBS 
about arrears, he didnt think this had resulted in any additional detriment  to her.
The investigator also noted that RBS hadnt been able to locate the mortgage account  when  
solicitors acting for Ms A contacted the bank.  Although he thought  RBS should have been 
able to find the account, he didnt  think this would have prevented  Ms A from going  through 
with the redemption.
Ms A didnt agree with the investigators  findings.  She asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.  Ms A also raised some new issues, which I wont be looking at here, as 
theyre the subject  of a fresh complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role to audit  accounts, but if Ms A thinks the arrears are inaccurate,  its always  
open to her to have  her account audited  by an accountant. But from what  Ive seen, the 
payments made are less than the payments due, and as a result there are arrears. Ive 
reviewed the information  provided about  the arrears from October 2016. Having done  so, Im 
satisfied that, notwithstanding some  confusion in the correspondence from RBS in March 
and April 2017, the arrears are accurate.   
I think RBSs correspondence could have been clearer, particularly in March and April 2017.  
But Im not persuaded its had any impact on the arrears or the payments Ms A would have 
made if the letters had been clearer.
Ive looked at the email from what Ms A says are her solicitors dated 15 January 2018, 
where the email  says that the bank cannot locate any details for yourself. The email is not 
from solicitors,  but from a Claims Management Company (CMC)  which  deals with claims for 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI).
Ref: DRN50871312In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that this is evidence of solicitors  being told by the 
bank that the accounts couldnt be located,  preventing her from redeeming the mortgage. I 
note Ms A has confirmed  that this was in relation to a PPI claim. Ms A has also provided  no 
evidence to suggest she was in a position to redeem  the mortgage.
I appreciate Ms A has gone  through a difficult time recently. I am sorry if my decision adds  to 
her distress.  But in all the circumstances,  Im not persuaded RBS has done anything  wrong  
in its administration  of Ms As mortgage  account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5087131