K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining about  Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance Limited  because  it didnt pay a 
claim on his critical  illness insurance  policy.
background
Mr M took out his critical illness insurance policy through an independent  broker in 1992. It 
included total permanent disability (TPD) and waiver of premium (WOP) benefits.
Sadly, Mr M had a spinal  stroke in 2016.  Old Mutual  (formerly  Skandia Life) didnt pay his 
claim because  it said he hadnt  met the policy definition  of stroke. It also said he didnt meet  
the criteria for a TPD or WOP claim.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think this complaint should 
be upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr M didnt  accept my provisional  decision and made the following points:
His occupation was listed  on the policy proposal  form as a self-employed alarm and 
electrical engineer  on the proposal form. All medical reports highlight  that hes not 
able to undertake  this manual occupation fully. Hes not an administrator and 
employs office staff together with a business  partner to undertake these activities.
He feels hes been mis-sold a policy as this was exactly  what it was intended to 
cover.
He also provided  account records for his business  for Old Mutual to consider in line with its 
previous suggestion.
Old Mutual reviewed this information, but didnt  feel it changed  anything. It said the accounts  
and other  information,  including  the companys website, indicate Mr M is still playing an 
active role in running the business and doesnt  meet the criteria for a TPD claim. But it did 
offer to reconsider the situation if Mr M provides:
a copy of the partnership agreement, which should clarify if a partner is entitled  to a 
full profit/dividend  if not performing full duties; and
HMRC company tax returns from 2013 to date, which would give a more detailed 
view of the salaries and national insurance  contributions paid by the company to its 
employees.
Mr M declined to provide  further information  and made the following key points:
His business has several streams of income so trying to draw correlations and 
comparisons are spurious at best.  What his accountant identified is the additional 
salaries required to cover the electrical work he can no longer able to do.
Theres no formal partnership agreement, but under the 1890 Partnership  Act the 
business is able to split profits and losses as it sees fit. Theres no correlation 
between the split of profit and the ability to physically do the work.
Ref: DRN52231572Mr M features prominently on the company website because hes the founder of the 
business. That doesnt mean  he takes part in all the physical activities of the 
business.
The business is a partnership and continues to grow as the younger workers push it 
forward. This doesnt reflect Mr Ms disability and his inability to work  as fully as he 
would like.
Mr Ms policy was taken out for him as an individual  and not the partnership. Old 
Mutual has confused  him and the business. He wouldnt  be employed by anyone  else 
as an electrician or alarm engineer and this is what the policy was taken out to cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the further correspondence since my provisional  decision, my conclusions  havent changed.
I previously considered the claim under three  headings  TPD, WOP and stroke.  Mr Ms 
response to my provisional  decision appears to centre on the TPD claim. Hes not raised any 
further points  on my conclusions relating to the stroke and WOP claims and I see no reason 
to change my view on these issues.
In terms of the TPD claim, Im clear the policy was taken to cover Mr M as an individual,  not 
his business as a whole.  And that this means a claim should be paid if the available  medical 
evidence shows hes totally and permanently unable  to do all aspects of his occupation, as it 
was at the time the policy started.
The policy application recorded Mr Ms occupation  as self-employed alarm and electrical 
engineer. Im satisfied  the medical evidence  shows there are certain  parts of the electrical 
work his occupation  entails  that Mr M is now unable to do and, arguably, this means  hes 
unable to do that part of the job entirely. But I dont think his occupation as a self-employed 
electrical engineer  was limited purely to physical electrical work. It also included  the 
administrative side of running his business. Ive not seen any medical evidence to indicate 
hes unable  to do this part of his occupation  and it seems hes still active in that role. With 
this in mind,  I dont think I can reasonably say Mr M has met the policy  requirement  for a 
claim that hes totally unable to do all aspects of his occupation.
Old Mutual was willing to review Mr Ms business accounts. If this information showed his 
illness has had a significant effect  on its profits, it might support the view hes no longer able 
to play an effective part in all areas of the business.  I think  that was a reasonable offer to 
make in the circumstances if there was a chance it would change its view.  But ultimately, I 
think its the medical evidence rather than the business accounts that are key to determining 
the outcome of this claim. In the absence  of sufficient medical evidence  to show Mr M is 
unable to do all aspects  of the role of running  the business as well as the electrical work, I 
think I can only reasonably say Old Mutual  was entitled to decline his claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for and I realise hell be very 
disappointed with my decision. But I think its the only one I can reasonably reach in view of 
the available  evidence. 
Ref: DRN52231573Finally, I note Mr M now says he feels the policy was mis-sold. I understand the reason for 
his concerns on this point,  but thats  not something  I can consider here. As I understand it, 
the policy was sold by an independent  broker. That means  Old Mutual acted  solely as the 
policy provider and wasnt responsible for the sale. If Mr M wants to pursue a complaint 
about how the policy was sold, hed need to address that to the broker  responsible  in the first 
instance. He may then be able to refer his concerns  to us as a separate complaint if hes not 
happy with any response he receives.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52231574extract from provisional  decision:
my provisional  findings
Mr Ms claim on the policy has been assessed against three  different benefits and Ill address each of 
these in turn.
critical illness claim for stroke
For a stroke claim to be paid, the policy terms require the following definition is met:
Stroke
Stroke means any cerebrovascular  incident  producing neurological sequelae lasting  more 
than 24 hours  and including infarction of brain tissue, haemorrhage and embolisation from an 
extracranial source.  To establish that a stroke has occurred evidence  of permanent 
neurological deficit  must be produced.
The policy specifically defines a stroke as a cerebrovascular incident, which means an incident that 
takes place in the brain. Mr Ms diagnosis  was that of a spinal stroke, not a cerebrovascular stroke. 
That means his illness isnt covered by the policy definition.
I understand Mr Ms diagnosis is comparatively rare and I can see from the medical  evidence,  
including correspondence from his consultant neurologist and GP, that some  of the effects can be 
very similar to those of a cerebrovascular stroke. I can also see hes suffered some neurological 
deficit thats expected to be permanent. But the policy wasnt designed to cover every serious  illness 
he could suffer from, only those set out in the policy terms. Because a spinal stroke isnt one of the 
illnesses listed in the policy, I dont think I can reasonably say Old Mutual should  pay this claim.
I realise this might be of little comfort  to Mr M, but I think  its worth pointing out that in my experience, 
the stroke  definition  in his policy is broadly consistent with that used by most  insurers  at the time he 
took it out. Even if he could have known what was going to happen  to him in the future, I think its very 
unlikely he would have  been  able to find a policy  that would have paid out in his current situation. 
TPD claim
The policy also included TPD benefit, which was essentially designed to cover any illness not 
specifically named  in the policy terms that left Mr M totally and permanently  unable to do his job. For a 
claim to be successful, the policy terms require the following definition is met:
Total Permanent Disability
Total permanent disability shall mean total,  permanent  and irreversible disability by reason of 
accident or illness to the extent that the Life Assured is unable to perform  his own occupation  
as disclosed in the application form (or any subsequent written  notification  to Skandia Life).  
Such disability  must  be established  for a continuous period of 12 months. Totally and 
permanently disabled shall have a corresponding meaning.
In simple terms, this means a claim will be paid if Mr M becomes  totally and permanently unable  to 
carry out the occupation  he held when he took the policy out.
According to recent correspondence, the policy was taken at the time Mr M started his own business. 
The application recorded his occupation  as self-employed alarm  and electrical engineer . I 
understand Mr M has had a hands-on role with the physical work completed by his company,  
particularly on the electrical side, but I think his role went beyond  that to include the administrative 
side of running  the business.
Ref: DRN52231575Theres evidence from Mr Ms rehabilitation consultant  that his illness has left him unable  to work at 
heights or in tight/awkward  spaces and that this is likely  to be a permanent  situation. Mr M says this 
means he cant do any electrical  work. The medical  evidence doesnt say he cant  do electrical work 
at all, but I can see that in his business much  of this work  would be done in tight spaces and at height. 
And that his limitations  may well effectively mean he cant do this part of his role within the company.
But as Ive said above,  the electrical side of his work is only part of his occupation. His role has 
always also included the administrative side of running his business. From the submissions made, I 
understand his company  is still trading and that Mr M is still actively involved in running it. While that 
continues to be the case, I dont think I can reasonably say hes totally unable to carry out his 
occupation.
In response to the investigators assessment, Old Mutual did offer to review  the claim again  if Mr M 
provides copies of his accounts since 2013. If that information were  available  and showed the 
business has suffered since Mr Ms illness, that could  strengthen the argument that he cant operate  
effectively in all areas of his role. In the circumstances, I think Old Mutuals suggestion was 
reasonable. Its of course up to Mr M whether hes willing to provide this information. But without it, or 
other medical evidence confirming he cant carry out all aspects of his role, I think  Old Mutual is 
entitled to decline  his claim.
WOP claim
The WOP benefit is designed to pay the premiums on the policy during a period while Mr M is unable 
to work  due to ill-health. For a claim to be successful, the policy terms require  him to be disabled in 
line with the following  definition:
Disability
Disability in the context of Waiver of Premium  cover means total incapacity by reason of 
accident or illness which, in the opinion of Skandia Life, prevents the disabled  individual from 
following his own occupation (as disclosed in the original Policy application  or in any 
subsequent written notification to Skandia Life) and the disabled individual is not following 
any gainful occupation.
In terms of Mr Ms claim, this definition  is actually  harder to satisfy than the TPD definition. Not only 
does it require  that he cant perform his own job, but also that hes not following any gainful 
occupation. As Mr M is still running his company, I think its clear he hasnt met this definition.
finally
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr M and isnt what  he was hoping  to hear. 
But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the available evidence shows his situation currently 
meets the relevant criteria for a successful claim  under any of the above policy  benefits.  As such, I 
think Old Mutual is entitled to decline  his claim.
Old Mutual has offered  to review Mr Ms claim again if he provides his accounts  and I think thats a 
reasonable offer. If he now decides he wants it to do that, he can contact it directly  with this 
information or provide  it to our investigator to forward on.
Whether he does this or not, its also important to understand this claim decision is only based on an 
assessment of his current health and circumstances. Providing he keeps paying into the policy, the 
fact this claim has been declined wont prevent him making a further claim in the future if his health 
deteriorates or he suffers another illness it does cover. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint based on the evidence  thats 
currently available.
Ref: DRN5223157