K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc (Barclays) is holding  them  responsible 
for a number of transactions  on their account  which they didnt make or authorise.
background
Although the account in question is in joint names and the complaint has been brought  by 
both parties, Mrs H has told us that she was the only one who possessed a card for the 
account and accessed the funds, so Ive referred  to her throughout this decision.  Her son 
has been helping  her with the complaint so on occasion Ive referred to him too. 
Mrs H is disputing a series of cash withdrawals, mail order  transactions  and in-store  
purchases between  2015 and 2018 totalling  around  £6,000. The disputed activity  took place 
over two cards because the earlier card was replaced upon expiry. 
Mrs H says that shed never  banked  online  and received paper statements only which shed 
duly file. It was on one such occasion  that she noticed the balance on the cover  sheet was 
much lower  than she thought it should be. She queried this with Barclays and discovered 
that over a three  year period, thered been a number of transactions which  she says she 
didnt make or authorise.  
Barclays investigated but held Mrs H liable for the transactions therefore refusing to refund 
the disputed transactions. It says its evidence shows that the cash withdrawals had been 
carried out using  Mrs Hs card and that theyd been authenticated when the PIN was 
entered. 
Barclays also says that there were  genuine transactions in between the disputed ones and 
its unlikely that a fraudster would take and replace Mrs Hs card so many times over the 
course of three years. It adds that there were no incorrect PIN attempts recorded and there 
were no further attempts to make  transactions on the card once it had been cancelled   and 
this suggests  that the transactions were either made  by Mrs H or someone  known to her. It 
also said that if Mrs H had adequately monitored  her account, she could have raised  her 
concerns sooner which may have prevented further disputed  transactions because it could 
have cancelled her card. 
Mrs H says that she relies on being  driven to the cash  point and anywhere  else by family 
members due to her poor health. She says that she has a routine whereby shed generally 
make cash  withdrawals weekly on Friday  and occasionally  on a Saturday  from one of two 
specific ATMs in her local area.  On rare occasions,  shed withdraw cash from another 
supermarket ATM.  
Mrs H says that she has a routine for the days she goes out, what  time she eats with Mr H 
and she always leaves  her purse  in the kitchen drawer  when in the house.  She says that its 
possible that someone could have familiarised  themselves with her routine and found 
opportunities to take and replace the card  but Mrs H says she cannot think of anyone 
known to them whod do this. Shes  also suggested  that her card could have been cloned. In 
addition, Mrs H says that shes  never  disclosed her PIN to anyone  or kept it written down. 
Because Mrs H disagreed  with Barclays assessment, she brought her complaint here. Our 
investigator gathered  information and evidence about what  had happened, including 
technical evidence  about the transactions. Having done so, the investigator  concluded  that 
Ref: DRN52080152Barclays was entitled to hold Mrs H liable for the disputed transactions and so did not 
recommend that the complaint should succeed. Mrs H didnt accept this and so the case has 
come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
At the outset, Id like to apologise for the time its taken for a decision to be issued on this 
case and I thank Mrs H for her patience with us. Id also like to assure Mrs H that Ive 
considered all of her arguments  and weighed this up against the evidence available and 
whilst I may not refer to each point individually, I have taken everything into account  in 
deciding this case.
Generally, Barclays can hold Mrs H liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that she made or authorised them  herself. 
In this case its not in dispute that Mrs Hs genuine card and PIN were  used to make the 
disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant  to this case say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable Barclays to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mrs H consented to the transactions  
being made.
Disputed ATM withdrawals
Mrs H is clear in her assertions that she wasnt responsible for the cash withdrawals.  She 
says that she cannot drive  due to her health and the dates and times  of the withdrawals 
arent consistent with her usual pattern of activity. She says she is dependent  upon  family to 
take her out  and this is always in a car  because of her health.  Shes  provided  us with a 
detailed account  of the places she visits, how she travels, who takes her and how much 
money shed usually withdraw and I thank her for sharing this detail with us. 
Having been through  several  of Mrs Hs bank  statements, I can see that there are patterns. 
For example, Ive seen  that generally  every  Friday between 11am and noon, there is a cash 
withdrawal from the same  local ATM for broadly the same amount every week   and this 
corroborates Mrs Hs version of events. However,  Ive also seen the following examples: 
On 2 September 2016 a genuine  transaction is made at 12:20 and 20 minutes  later 
at 12:38 a disputed withdrawal takes place;
On 30 September  2016 a genuine transaction takes place at 11:40 and at 11:53 a 
disputed withdrawal is made  followed by a genuine transaction at 12:31.
When weve asked Mrs H how the disputed  transactions  could have  happened, shes been  
unable to offer an explanation. Shes accepted  that there is a possibility that someone known 
to her may have been using her card without her permission.
Mrs H says she never lost possession of her card, and the security of the PIN wasnt 
compromised. She has suggested that the genuine  card wasnt  used and perhaps it was 
cloned. However, Im satisfied that Mrs Hs genuine card was used  and the correct PIN was
entered each  time the disputed ATM transactions were made. I have carefully considered  
the evidence that Barclays has provided for these  transactions. I am satisfied that the audit 
Ref: DRN52080153trails demonstrate that the transactions  were made  using chip and PIN, and that it was Mrs 
Hs genuine card and its associated PIN (not a copy or clone) that was used. 
Further, the audit  trails  do not show any failed PIN attempts  during the period  of the disputed 
transactions suggesting that either Mrs H made the transactions or the PIN was somehow 
obtained by someone else. When we asked  Mrs H about this, she has been steadfast in her 
position that she didnt write her PIN down nor did she share it with anybody  - so I cant see 
how someone else couldve  used  the card without  Mrs Hs knowledge.
I cant be certain exactly whats happened in this case. But I do accept  the banks evidence
that the disputed withdrawals  were made  using  the genuine card and the correct  PIN. So I
need to consider how that mightve  happened.
Mrs H lives with her husband  but she says her children and other family members often visit 
them at home. She says thered have  been no need  for anyone to take her card because if 
theyd needed  money, they would have simply asked her for it. And in any event, she says 
that no-one knew her PIN except her  not even  Mr H. 
Its possible that someone known to Mrs H mightve  seen her using her PIN and then made 
transactions without  Mrs Hs authority. I say someone known to her because  the disputed  
transactions took place over three years so I consider it unlikely that someone unknown to 
Mrs H would have taken  and replaced  her card more than 30 times without arousing some 
suspicion. Its interesting to note that when Mrs Hs debit card was cancelled and replaced 
by a new card, there were  no attempted transactions on the former  card suggesting that the 
alleged fraudster was aware Mrs H had received a new one. 
The evidence also shows that there  were no attempts to empty  the account even though 
there were funds to be withdrawn. There had been  balance enquiries made on the account 
so its more likely than not that the person accessing  Mrs Hs funds knew  that there was 
money available and because there was no attempt to empty the account which  is 
something fraudsters often do, this leads me to believe  that Mrs H either withdrew  or 
authorised the monies to be withdrawn from her account. Moreover, Mrs H remains  in 
possession of the card and hasnt reported it as being  lost or out of her possession  at the 
time of the disputed  transactions. 
Mrs H says that she would generally  only be driven to the cash  point and didnt  venture out 
much elsewhere to shop.  I queried some transactions in a different area with her son who 
said that Mrs H did frequent that location however, didnt visit those particular shops  where 
the spending had occurred. Mrs H has also said that the transactions started at around  the 
time her daughter was getting  married (August 2016) so there was more  spending than 
usual which  she wasnt always keeping track of. But the transactions shes  disputing  began 
in 2015. 
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen any evidence in this case to suggest  the card 
was cloned nor have  I seen any credible explanation  for how someone may have obtained 
Mrs Hs PIN in order to carry out these  transactions. This makes  it very difficult  for me to 
conclude that it wasnt Mrs H or someone  authorised by her, making these transactions.  
Because of this, I dont consider that Barclays needs  to reimburse her for these. 
Mrs H has speculated that her card might  have been cloned and that a recording device
couldve been placed on the cash machine she used in order  to identify her PIN. But 
although its possible to clone the magnetic strip on a card and produce a replica,  theres no 
Ref: DRN52080154evidence to suggest thats possible with the chip. So given that Barclays has been able to 
show that the chip on Mrs Hs card was read, Im persuaded that these  transactions  were 
carried out with her genuine card. 
Card not present transactions
Mrs H also disputes a series of mail order transactions and in-store purchases over this 
period. 
Ive noticed a number of payments throughout Mrs Hs statements to different mail order  
companies which she isnt disputing. Mrs H says she doesnt place mail orders  online 
because she doesnt have a computer. Barclays cannot confirm whether  the disputed  mail 
order transactions were  made via telephone or online and it doesnt have the IP addresses 
either to be able to make  a finding on this. However,  Barclays evidence shows that there  is 
no online  banking activity  on the account which corroborates Mrs Hs testimony that she 
doesnt have this facility set up. 
Ive seen from Mrs Hs statements that she frequently orders  items via mail order, and so on 
balance, it seems most likely to me that she places her orders over the telephone (than 
online given  her testimony). Moreover,  over the period of the disputed transactions,  I can 
see from Mrs Hs statements  that the mail order transactions were for similar stores  as those 
she generally shopped at and where  she spent broadly similar amounts. Its therefore 
difficult for me to conclude  that these transactions  werent made or authorised by Mrs H and 
so Im not going  to ask Barclays to refund these.  
Summary
On balance, therefore, I think the most  likely explanation here is that Mrs H made the
transactions herself or let someone else use her card and PIN because there is no 
explanation as to how someone  would have known Mrs Hs PIN based on what shes told us 
and no identifiable  point of compromise. So, in the circumstances, I dont require  Barclays  to 
refund the value  of the disputed transactions to Mrs H. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mrs H to hear but I hope Ive explained clearly  the reasons why Ive reached my outcome. 
Mrs H has also raised some other  general  issues, such  as sending information  to Barclays  
but not receiving  an acknowledgement  thus requiring her to chase it, her son being told that 
if she couldnt read her statements he should  consider putting a power of attorney  in place, 
lost correspondence  from Barclays and other  points  related to the customer  service  shes  
received. Ive not seen sufficient evidence of this to warrant making an award for any 
distress caused. And to be clear, these issues do not in my view,  affect  Mrs Hs liability  for 
the disputed payments.
Ref: DRN52080155my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against Barclays  
Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2021.
Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5208015