K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont raise  a claim under a chargeback  
scheme to get money back they paid to two timeshare companies.     
background
Mr and Mrs J made  payments to two timeshare companies in 2008 and 2011.                     
But Mr and Mrs J didnt receive  the services they paid for. They also didnt get a cash back 
certificate worth £5,750.  
In October  2016 Mr and Mrs J contacted Lloyds to dispute the transactions under the Visa 
chargeback scheme.  Lloyds replied to Mr and Mrs J saying their request was out of time. 
Mr and Mrs J continued to correspond  with Lloyds but didnt get a response.  Lloyds issued a 
final response in May 2017. It explained  that it has to follow  the Visa Chargeback  
Regulations (the Regulations) which say transactions made more than 540 days prior to 
raising the dispute cannot be disputed. Lloyds accepted it could have  explained this to 
Mr and Mrs J more clearly. It paid them  £75 in recognition of this poor service. 
Unhappy with Lloyds  response, Mr and Mr J referred their complaint to us. They felt it was 
unfair of Lloyds not to action the chargeback.  They said theyd been  misled  by the timeshare 
companies and what  theyd been promised  hadnt materialised. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  Lloyds had looked  at 
Mr and Mrs Js chargeback  request  in line with the Regulations. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree and so their case has been passed to me to decide. Mr and Mrs J 
said theyd been  the victims  of a scam. They said the timeshare companies had misled them 
and they should be held to account. They wanted  their money back.  
I can see that Mr and Mrs J told us about another complaint theyd  made to Lloyds about  
payments in 2003 and 2006 to two other  timeshare  companies. Our investigator asked 
Lloyds to respond to Mr and Mrs J about this complaint as it hadnt previously been made 
aware of it. For this reason, Ive only looked  into Mr and Mrs Js complaint about  the 
payments made in 2008 and 2011.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I sympathise with the position Mr and Mrs J have found themselves in. I dont doubt what  
theyve said about  being misled by these two companies and that theyve been victims of a 
cruel scam which has left them suffering a great financial loss. But I have  to consider 
whether Lloyds followed the Regulations  when considering the chargeback  request.
Ref: DRN50344532When somethings gone wrong  between a cardholder and a merchant, a chargeback 
scheme through the card provider may resolve matters. Under the Regulations there  are 
strict time limits on when  a chargeback request  can be made. The merits of the dispute are 
not taken into account. 
Lloyds told Mr and Mrs J that a dispute must be processed no more  than 540 days from the 
date the transaction was processed. Ive looked  at the Regulations  and can see that Lloyds 
position here is correct.  As Mr and Mrs J made  the transactions in 2008 and 2011, more  
than 540 days had passed by the time they made the chargeback request  to Lloyds in 2016. 
As Lloyds  followed  the Regulations, I cant say it did anything wrong by denying to process 
the chargeback.  
Mr and Mrs J feel consideration  should be given to the nature of the transaction  and how 
they were the victims  of a scam. I can understand their strength of feeling here. But Lloyds 
has no discretion over the Regulations. The merits of the dispute are not taken into account.  
Lloyds accepted it could have been  clearer in its explanation to Mr and Mrs J about why it 
couldnt process the chargeback. It paid them £75. Overall, I think  this sum fairly reflects  the 
trouble and upset  caused by the miscommunication.  So I dont think Lloyds needs  to do any 
more to put things  right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5034453