K821x#15complaint
Miss K has complained  about  the early repayment  charge (ERC) she incurred when she 
carried out an internal  remortgage with Nationwide Building Society.
Whilst the complaint  is in joint names  with Mr G, the complaint has been pursued by Miss K 
as shes the party that is paying the ERC, so generally Ill just refer to Miss K throughout this 
decision.
background
Miss K and Mr G had a mortgage with Nationwide. When  they separated it was agreed that 
Miss K would remain in the property and would  raise a sum to buy out Mr G. The mortgage  
was on a fixed rate of 3.94% until 31 July 2019,  and would incur  an ERC if the rate was 
ended before that date (either by the mortgage being repaid, or by the product being 
changed).
Miss K had an advised mortgage interview  with Nationwide and in that the mortgage adviser 
calculated it would be more cost effective to Miss K to pay the ERC  to come out of the 
existing fixed rate early  as the new rate she could obtain (at 1.59% fixed  for 24 months) was 
significantly lower than her existing rate.
As this was a rate change  and a transfer of equity (to remove Mr G) an internal remortgage 
was applied for in September 2018.
The mortgage completed in November 2019  but unfortunately Miss Ks solicitors  ignored the 
ERC on the redemption  statement and didnt  pay that amount. Miss Ks solicitors also 
ignored the various letters sent by Nationwide over the next few months, eventually telling 
Miss K in March 2019 that she owed Nationwide the ERC.
Miss Ks solicitors  paid the ERC to Nationwide and I understand Miss K entered  into an 
agreement to repay the solicitors in instalments. In the meantime Miss K complained to 
Nationwide.
Nationwide didnt uphold  the complaint, but it did offer £50 compensation for Miss K being  
given mis-information  in a phone call in March 2019 (information that was corrected when 
she called  again  the following day).  
Unhappy with this Miss K referred the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  but felt Nationwide should pay a further £100 for the 
mis-information. Nationwide agreed  with that. Miss K didnt agree and so its been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss K has set out her account of events 
in considerable detail.  I trust she wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the 
complaint in the way that I have.  Ours  is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Ref: DRN54692982I dont doubt that this is very important for Miss K. But although Ive read and considered  the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power  under our rules to comment on, or otherwise 
determine, how financial businesses  operate in general terms. Im satisfied the terms of the 
ERC were set out in the 2015 mortgage  offer in a manner that met the regulators 
requirements. That mortgage offer said An early repayment charge is payable  if you repay 
the mortgage or transfer to another  product  within the Benefit Period. So it should  have 
been clear to Miss K from this that by transferring to a new product in 2018 shed be 
incurring the ERC.
Lenders generally raise  money to offer preferential rates  for their mortgage customers (both  
new and existing)  on the wholesale money  markets. Theres  a cost to that, and its generally 
fixed in advance. But the lender expects to receive a return to outweigh  those costs  in the 
form of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money  its borrowed. If a mortgage 
ends early, it doesnt get that interest,  and so doesnt make back  the costs in raising the 
funds to offer that preferential rate.
Miss K has said the mortgage adviser  didnt discuss the ERC with her. Whilst Ive had regard 
for her testimony its not supported by the contemporaneous evidence.  The notes the 
mortgage adviser made at the time say:
Potentially wants  products  to align so she can review in 9 months.
After discussion would prefer to have stability over the next 2 years rather than 
potentially have  an element of the mortgage on a tracker rate (which would allow for 9 
month review)
[Miss Ks] overriding priority was to have  stability in all of her mortgage payments over 
the shortest  and lowest fixed  rate we could  offer. She wants to review  against the whole 
of market at the end of her deal with a work place broker  and any longer than 2 years  
would feel too long to her.
When we compared the existing  product  to the new 2 year fixed rate it was worth paying  
the ERC to redeem  the existing product as [Miss  K] would be financially better  off over 
the next 9 months as the rate on the new product is much lower.  [Miss K] was happy to 
pay this ERC as she could see the benefit it would have.
[Miss K] did not want to pay a fee up front, especially as she will be paying  the ERC.  
The fee added  option was better when compared  to the no fee from the overall position 
perspective which was most important  to them both after discussion.
Miss K has provided copies of an email she sent to the mortgage adviser, and his reply.  She 
says this shows she asked about the fees and was told there was only a £125 transfer of 
equity fee.
Ive considered this point  carefully having reviewed the emails, and I dont agree. Miss K 
asked a very specific question and the mortgage  adviser answered correctly  the question  
that had been asked.  Miss K didnt  ask about  all the costs  involved, she specifically asked I 
Ref: DRN54692983have received a pack from my lawyers and they have  asked  if there is a transfer of equity  
fee, please can you confirm whether there is or not.
The mortgage adviser (correctly) replied  the only transfer of equity  fee was the £125  that 
you paid on application   there  are no other  fees from us. By no other  fees the mortgage 
adviser is talking about transfer of equity fees,  as thats what  Miss K asked about. As Miss K 
has admitted she knew she had a £999  product fee its clear  she would have known from 
that email that the mortgage adviser  wasnt talking about all the costs involved,  otherwise 
that £999 product fee would have been mentioned; as would the ERC  if Miss K had asked  a 
broader question  about all the costs  involved.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Miss K is the one bringing the complaint 
against Nationwide,  to uphold the complaint  Miss Ks version needs to be more  likely than 
Nationwides version; not just as likely . Having  considered everything  I cant  say Miss Ks 
version is anything  more than just as likely,  which isnt enough for me to uphold her 
complaint.
Nationwide has already admitted it made  a mistake in the March 2019 phone  call when 
Miss K was told she didnt  have  an outstanding  balance and in not managing her 
expectations with regard to the complaint call back, so I dont need  to make a finding on 
what happened, or why. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes  a 
mistake, mistakes do happen. In this case it was simple human error. Nationwide has 
accepted it let Miss K down, has apologised for that, and paid £50 compensation (with a 
further £100 its now agreed to pay). Having looked at all of the evidence   and keeping  in 
mind the level of award we normally make  I consider  that offer to be fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part, insofar  as I consider the offer of £150 is fair in the 
circumstances. I order  Nationwide Building Society to pay £150 (less any amounts already 
paid) in full and final settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2020. For completeness I should add that 
both Miss K and Mr G must accept my decision  for the acceptance to be valid.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5469298