K820x#14complaint
Mr D, represented by Mr B, has complained about  National House-Building Council (NHBC). 
It provides warranties for Mr Ds home and other homes in the development where he lives. 
Mr B says NHBC agreed to do work under the policy but then failed  to complete it. 
For ease, and because  he has been  the main correspondent throughout the complaint 
process, in my background and findings Ill refer only to Mr B.
The other residents  have  also complained  and Ive issued  decisions for each of them under 
separate references.
background
NHBC provides building warranties that cover all the homes within  the development in 
question. During  the first two years  after the development was completed  problems were 
noted with the sewers.  NHBC  became  involved  under its resolution service and, in 2015, as 
part of an ongoing review  of the continuing problem, it issued a resolution report. The report 
made a recommendation for work to be done.  The report  set a deadline  for the builder to 
comply with the recommendation. The deadline was 31 July 2015. The recommendation was 
that the builder carry out necessary work  in order to have the sewage system adopted by the 
local water  authority.
By 31 July 2015 tenders had been returned and a start date for work to start was pending. 
However, the builder  had returned to the water  authority to re-negotiate a stipulated piece of 
work. The water authority  then wanted  to arrange  a site meeting  and this took a while  to 
arrange. In February  2016 the builder contacted Mr B and said that following the meeting it 
was waiting for a report from the water  authority about what  work  it required to be done  in 
order for it to adopt the sewage  system. Mr B chased updates on this over the coming  
months but heard little more.
In June 2016  NHBC called Mr B. It said it had made  a mistake in its 2015  report  as adoption 
of the system wasnt  covered by the warranty. It said a system  being  capable of being 
adopted by the water authority wasnt one of its technical requirements and so it wasnt  
something it should have tried to force the builder to do or something it could now take on in 
the builders stead.
Mr B complained and when NHBC wouldnt change its view on carrying  out the work he, and 
the other home  owners,  made a complaint to this service. NHBC had accepted  it had caused 
a loss of expectation  though and offered  £4,000 total compensation to cover all upset 
caused to all homeowners. NHBC also said the residents didnt have ownership of the 
sewage system  that had remained  with the builder.
When the complaint  came  to me for a decision I issued some provisional findings  but asked 
for further  detail regarding  the issue of who was responsible for the sewage  system. Further 
information in this respect was then provided by both sides  and I issued some further 
findings on that issue. 
Ultimately I felt that NHBC had failed  the homeowners.  That it needed to carry out the work  it 
had previously recommended  and that I could recommend that it do so because I was 
satisfied that the residents were legally  responsible  for the sewage system.  
Ref: DRN53318762Mr B, on behalf of the homeowners, accepted my findings. NHBC did not. Ive set out my 
provisional findings, NHBCs comments and my responses as part of my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my provisional decision I said:
NHBC doesnt always act as an insurer.  But, where  NHBC  provides its resolution service, it 
is seen to begin acting  as an insurer when:
A resolution report has been issued, and
The builder has failed  to complete the recommended work  in the report  by the deadline 
set.
Once this occurs,  even if NHBC continues to use the builder to complete work,  it is seen  to 
be acting as an insurer and carrying out regulated activity.
In this case that means that from 31 July 2015,  NHBC  was acting as an insurer  in respect  of 
the work  it had thought was necessary at Mr Bs home.
In respect of the work that was thought  to be necessary; NHBC has been very clear with 
this service in the past and confirmed that recommendations  are only made where defects 
are found  by its investigators ie that NHBC accepts  there is a breach of its technical 
requirements that needs resolving.
NHBC has also clearly  stated that where  a homeowner believes a breach  has occurred but 
NHBC disagrees, this cant be questioned  by this service such as to consider whether 
recommendations should actually have been  made. But in this case  it seems NHBC would 
have me accept that it made a mistake  and the recommendations shouldnt  have been 
made. To me that seems a little unreasonable.
In any event, even if I were minded to accept there was a genuine mistake, NHBC didnt just 
make it and then quickly realise  this, setting  matters straight with no delay or other activity 
occurring in between. Rather  the situation  was allowed to continue  for many months with all 
involved believing this work was required under the warranty and all reasonable endeavours 
being made in order  to comply with the recommendation. Effectively, I think  its fair to say 
that NHBC entered a contract for repair. And it carried out work, via the builder, which 
included site meetings and liaising  with third-parties, in an effort  to complete  that contract.
So I dont  think  NHBC can so easily dismiss its liability here. But, as mentioned above, there 
is a problem here in respect of who owns  the sewage system. NHBC has mentioned that the 
builder has maintained liability for it and that this has never been passed to the owners of the 
properties. .This means that I need to see details from the parties as to where  liability  
for the system lies. If the property owners have liability then Ill likely  make NHBC complete 
the work  necessary to have the water  authority adopt the system. If the homeowners have 
no liability  then Ill likely  not make  any award.
NHBC said there was no evidence the system  was non-compliant; that in fact it isnt within 
its requirements for the system to be adopted by the water authority. Therefore,  the policy 
Ref: DRN53318763simply doesnt give cover for this scenario and if it hadnt made a mistake the resolution 
report wouldnt have required that this work  was done. I understand that is NHBCs position 
but this doesnt give me cause to change  my view as stated above that this is not a mistake  
that NHBC can just fairly walk away from.
As mentioned above, following the provision  of further evidence I issued my provisional 
findings on this issue to both parties.  I said:
Mr B provided  a land registry document which seemed to show that the individual property 
owners have responsibility for maintaining the sewers (my emphasis):
4.1 All and any sewers drains[etc]. and (in so far as the same  are not the subject of 
any covenant by the Transferor to repair or maintain herein contained) shall be repaired 
and maintained by the Transferee and other  the owner or occupier of the plots  using  the 
same according to such user.
But NHBC produced a related covenant. The covenant seems  to takes overall responsibility 
for the sewers away from individual property owners and places that in the arms of the 
management company.  
3 The Company  hereby covenants with the Buyer that it will:
3.1 Provide procure and perform in relation to the Communal Facilities  the Schedule 
Services.
It has been NHBCs contention all along that as the management company is owned by the 
developer, and as the management  company is responsible for the sewers, the developer is 
responsible for the sewers. If that were the case then the above two documents  might 
support that position. However, Ive also seen the memorandum  of association for the 
management company.  This sets out the basis for the limited  company and defines what it is 
there to do. 
a)For the benefit of the Dwellingholders, to own maintain and administer, in whole or in 
partthe Development. And any other land.and ancillary facilities and/or any 
communal land which is subject to mutual  covenants contained in any leases  and/or  
transfers where such land is capable of benefitting  the Dwellingholders.
And
b) To provide all manner  of services in connection with the management administration 
insurance maintenance repair  decoration  upkeep and cleaning (together hereinafter  referred  
to as the management) of the Development and to provide services to the Dwellingholders 
as may be necessary and in connection therewith:-
..
(iv) To engage and employ professional  and business persons such  as..main  contractors 
and sub-contractors  and retainers of all kinds necessary to the management of the 
Development.
There is no caveat within this document to say the companys role or emphasis changes  
depending on who the directors or shareholders  are. And there is nothing that says the 
company only starts acting for the residents at the point  when they take over the 
Ref: DRN53318764directorship/ownership of the company and/or  pay fees. Therefore, Im satisfied that the 
management company  is legally  responsible for the upkeep of the sewers and that, by virtue 
of the fact it was incorporated to look after the joint needs of the property owners,  the 
property owners effectively have liability for the system. Therefore, as mentioned above, and 
unless I receive any further information that gives me cause  to think  my current view is 
wrong, I intend to issue a final decision  that requires NHBC to undertake  the work necessary 
to have the sewer  system adopted  by the local water authority.
NHBC said the deed makes the management  company  responsible for the sewage system 
and the management company is owned by the developer  and hasnt been  taken  over by 
the homeowners. It said they havent  taken on any direct responsibility for the sewage 
system, and havent even  made any payments towards its upkeep.
Whilst that may be the case, the management  company was set up, regardless of who 
owned or controlled it, on very specific terms. I havent seen anything that makes me think 
those terms can be ignored or discarded.  Im satisfied that the management  company  was 
put in place to act for the homeowners, in their stead. Therefore I remain of the view that the 
homeowners, by virtue of their management  company and the deed  that names the 
management company  as the responsible party, are liable for the sewer  system.
I appreciate NHBCs concerns that the developer may try and block any work; it is still the 
director of the management  company and that could create some conflict of interest. If that 
does occur though  then NHBC  will have to deal with that, and the homeowners  will need to 
cooperate with it. Just because there  may be some difficulties faced by an insurer in 
complying with an award doesnt  mean  I shouldnt make it. Theres  a difference  between  an 
award being made which may possibly be difficult to comply with and an award being set out 
that is impossible for an insurer to ever hope to meet. Im satisfied that my award, based on 
what Ive seen here, doesnt  fall into the latter category. 
I understand that NHBC thinks the local water authority may make it impossible for NHBC to 
comply with my award. I accept that NHBC wont have any power  over that third-party but 
from what Ive seen  so far the local water authority did negotiate with the developer and set 
out the works it felt were  necessary for it to adopt the system. So I dont think its likely the 
water authority will refuse to work  with NHBC on resolving this issue. 
The involvement of a third-party might well lead to some delays and frustrations being 
caused that are beyond  NHBCs  control  but that, again, isnt a good reason to not make  an 
award in this instance. It would seem unfair, at this stage, to say NHBC should be able to 
settle the matter  in cash and walk away leaving the homeowners to sort out the situation.  
Firstly that would be impractical  at this point as whilst  I know the water authority set out 
details of works necessary in 2016, as far as Im aware no-one has costed those yet. And it 
isnt clear if they are still valid or might need updating in any way.
Secondly, it wouldnt be fair to put the residents in the positon of having to try and work with 
the water  company  they simply do not have the expertise and the access  to suitably 
qualified experts  that NHBC does  and that may well be needed in order  to embark on as well 
as complete this exercise. If as time moves on and the situation changes,  the parties decide 
to step outside  of my final decision and negotiate an alternative  settlement  arrangement  that 
would be a matter  for them to discuss.  At this stage  Mr B hasnt indicated that a cash  
settlement would be preferred and, for the reasons set out here,  I dont think that would be a 
fair or workable award. I remain of the view that NHBC needs  to step into the shoes of 
Ref: DRN53318765developer and complete the work it required the developer to do in its resolution report  dated 
March 2015.
I also commented provisionally on compensation. In the event  that I was making  NHBC carry 
out the work,  meaning the homeowners werent left with any loss of expectation as a result  
of NHBC having made a mistake, I felt compensation wasnt  necessary. Some  dismay was 
likely caused  but in this instance Im satisfied that requiring NHBC to carry out the work  is 
fair and reasonable redress. Im not minded to make NHBC pay compensation in addition to 
that.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require National House-Building Council to carry out all 
requirements of the water  authority  to allow full adoption by it of the sewage  system on 
completion of the works.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5331876