K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd (Admiral Loans) treated him unfairly 
by cancelling  his already  approved loan application.  He complains that he was provided  
with incorrect advice  regarding what was contained in the terms and conditions and his 
complaint wasnt properly investigated.  
background
Mr R applied for a loan with Admiral  Loans  and says he was approved  on 7 January 
2019. He says the loan was to be used to pay off an existing  loan which would have 
resulted in him making  a monthly saving of £34. He then looked to change  his bank 
account so he called  Admiral Loans  on 9 January to explain his bank account  would  be 
changing. He says he was told he couldnt  switch his bank account  as the first payment 
had to go out of the account the loan funds were  paid into. He says he was told that if he 
switched accounts  the loan offer would  be withdrawn. Mr R says because of this he 
decided not to switch his account at that time.
Later that day Mr R received an email from Admiral Loans rejecting his application.  He 
says he called Admiral  Loans and was told the underwriting  team had carried  out 
another review  on the basis he was going  to switch his bank account and had decided to 
reject his application. 
Mr R says he was told it was in the terms and conditions that the loan payment has to 
come out of the account the funds were paid into but he says this isnt true. Mr R says 
the cancellation of the loan caused him stress, panic attacks and financial loss. 
As well as the issues regarding the loan Mr R says his complaint wasnt properly 
investigated. 
Admiral Loans says that it didnt do anything wrong by withdrawing the loan offer made 
to Mr R when new information  was received. It says that Mr R called it the day before the 
loan payment was due to say the bank account on which the loan had been  assessed 
would be closed. It was explained that the loan offer would be withdrawn if he wasnt  
able to make  a payment from the account on the application. It says that although Mr R 
then said he wouldnt change his account this new information meant a manual 
underwriting review took place. Following this the loan offer was withdrawn.
Admiral Loans says that in the contract  details it says the credit  will be transferred after a 
signed agreement  has been received and verification checks  completed.  It says this 
means it can continue to review the application up to the point when the loan is paid out. 
It says it didnt complete  a second search  of Mr Rs credit file at that time.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that it was Admiral Loans decision 
as to whether  or not to lend to Mr R. He noted  Mr Rs comments about being told the 
issue regarding changing his bank was in the terms and conditions  but said in most  
cases changing account details the day before  the loan was expected  would likely affect 
the application. He didnt  find that Mr R had been caused any financial loss.
Mr R didnt accept our adjudicators view.  He reiterated that the terms and conditions 
mention nothing about the loan being  paid into the account on the application or that the 
Ref: DRN52438812bank account  cant be changed. He said had he known this he wouldnt have called 
Admiral Loans and so wouldnt be in the situation he now is.
Mr R said he believed the loan was agreed  and so cancelled his direct  debits to his other 
loan provider but then had to reinstate these. Mr R said he was given incorrect 
information which caused him stress and inconvenience. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R applied for a loan with Admiral  Loans  and was initially approved. However before 
the loan was provided Mr R contacted Admiral Loans about switching his bank account. 
Mr R says he was told that the terms and conditions of his agreement meant he couldnt 
change his bank  account at that time. 
I accept that Mr R wasnt given the correct  information about the terms and conditions. 
However, I have considered whether  had he been given the correct information anything  
different would have  occurred.  In this case, by Mr R making contact and saying he 
planned to change his bank account this triggered  further action by Admiral Loans. Mr R 
decided not to go ahead with the bank account  switch and he told the adviser  this. 
However, given the information that had been  provided I dont find that Admiral Loans 
acted unreasonably by carrying out further  checks.
Admiral Loans has explained that due to the new information a manual underwriting 
check was carried out on Mr Rs application and the loan offer was withdrawn. While I 
understand this was upsetting for Mr R it is Admiral Loans commercial decision as to 
who it lends to and I cannot say that, following its further checks it did anything wrong by 
withdrawing the loan offer. Admiral Loans has confirmed that the manual underwriting  
check used the credit file information it had already gathered and that a second search 
wasnt carried out.
Mr R says that he should be compensated because he was provided  with incorrect 
information and this situation has caused  him stress and inconvenience as he had to 
reinstate his direct debits.  He also says he has lost out financially as he postponed 
switching his bank  account and then missed out on the financial incentive to switch.
While I understand Mr R was told incorrect information about  the terms and conditions,  I 
still understand that the payment needed  to come out of the account that was on the 
application. Therefore  I dont think  that this information affected the actions  taken by 
Admiral Loans as by Mr R raising  this issue this triggered further checks.
I note Mr Rs comments about  delaying  the switching of his bank account but I dont find 
that Admiral Loans  is responsible for this. I also dont find that Admiral Loans  can be 
held responsible for any changes to direct debits  Mr R made before the loan had been 
provided.
While I understand why Mr R is upset I do not find that Admiral  Loans did anything 
wrong by withdrawing  its loan offer.  As set out above, while I acknowledge Mr R wasnt  
Ref: DRN52438813given the correct information  on the call, I dont find this had a material  impact  on the 
outcome. 
I also note Mr Rs comments about the investigation  into his complaint. Complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity however based on the evidence  I find that Admiral 
Loans provided a reasonable service  in response to Mr Rs complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr R but in this case  I dont find that I can 
uphold his complaint and so do not require Admiral  Loans to take any further  action or 
pay any compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2019.
Jane Archer 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5243881