K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr M complained that Age Partnership  Limited mis-sold an equity release 
mortgage to Mr M.  
The estate  believes that Age Partnership mis-sold  two loans to a vulnerable elderly man.  It 
would like the debt cancelled in full.
background
Mr M died in November 2018. His son represents  Mr Ms estate.
On 23 March 2015, Mr M spoke to Age Partnership about raising money through an equity 
release mortgage  on his property. He told Age Partnership that he wanted to raise £60,000 
for the following purposes:
-£20,000 for a gift to family;
-£24,000 for a new car; and 
-£16,000 for holidays to visit family.
Mr M and Age Partnership discussed  Mr Ms requirements and completed the relevant 
document. Among  other things, this set out what Mr M wanted,  his attitude to other  options,  
and recorded  that he had discussed it with his family who were supportive. The form told Mr 
M hed have to take legal  advice, and it recommended a particular equity release plan. Mr M 
went ahead  with this mortgage, which had an interest rate of 5.2%.
On 9 December  2015, Mr M approached Age Partnership again.  This time, he said he 
wanted to borrow  the maximum possible, in order to give a gift to family. The 
recommendation document suggested borrowing  £19,545, but the mortgage offer was for 
£12,740, because  Mr Ms property was valued at less than hed told Age Partnership he 
thought it would be worth. This new loan was at 7.5%.
After Mr M died in November 2018, his children were shocked to find out about the 
borrowing. They hadnt known  anything  about  it, and said that if Mr M had told them, theyd 
have urged him not to. His family said that Mr Ms health had been  failing  since 2012 and as 
a result,  his impaired  judgement had led to a catastrophic period of losses on his share 
investments. Theyd discovered that Mr M had spent the money  he borrowed through Age 
Partnership on further disastrous stock market investments,  and these had also failed.
Mr Ms son, on behalf of the estate, complained to Age Partnership.  He said that Mr M had 
been a vulnerable elderly man who was making reckless financial decisions because  of his 
ill-health. Mr Ms son also said he was particularly concerned about  the further loan, so soon 
after the first. He said it was staggering that Age Partnership wouldnt have made  any 
enquiries about what had happened to the original  amount, and nor had it made any 
enquiries about the borrowers mental  state.
Age Partnership didnt  uphold the complaint by Mr Ms estate. It said that Mr M had 
confirmed he didnt  have  any other  alternatives  to releasing equity for what he wanted  to do. 
And it had talked to Mr M about his medical  history, and hed confirmed he didnt have any 
mental or physical conditions that could affect  his ability  to enter into the contract. Age 
Partnership also pointed  out that Mr M had said hed discussed  the borrowing with his family 
who had been  supportive. It said that its advisers could only base recommendations on what 
they were told. Mr M had had legal advice  and the solicitor had a responsibility  to ensure 
Ref: DRN56767582that Mr M had understood the plan and wanted to go ahead.  Mr M had signed the 
documents to say he wanted to go ahead.
So Age Partnership said there was no evidence to suggest its advisers  should  have  
identified any concerns about  Mr M.
Mr Ms estate  wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. The estate was concerned that 
loans had been sold to a man who was vulnerable and not of sound mind.  It asked why Age 
Partnership hadnt asked questions at the time of the second loan, about  where  the first 
£60,000 had gone, and whether it did any checks to ensure the money  had been used for 
the purposes Mr M had told them. The family had found out that Mr M had in fact been 
dealing in stocks  and shares through  an online  account. The estates  representative said it 
would like Age Partnership to accept  the loans had been mis-sold to a vulnerable elderly  
man, and to cancel  the debt in full.
 
The adjudicator didnt uphold the estates complaint. She explained that we couldnt tell Age 
Partnership to tell the lender to cancel the agreements and refund the money, when  theyd 
been taken out as a fair and regulated  contract between the parties to the loan. That 
included the interest  which was applicable  under the terms of the contract. Mr M had 
received clear accessible and effective  information  about how the plan would work, and hed 
had independent legal advice. And it wasnt Age Partnerships responsibility  to monitor what 
Mr M did with the money.
The estates representative said it still felt that the policy had been mis-sold. At the very 
least, it thought  the short  period  between loans should have rung alarm bells and required  
more stringent proof of what the original  money  had been spent on.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Mr Ms family  was very shocked to discover that Mr M had taken out the 
equity release mortgage and further advance, when he hadnt told them  about it. It would 
have been very upsetting. But my job is to decide  whether or not Age Partnership broke any 
of the rules when it made the two loans to Mr M.
The recommendation documents show that Age Partnership asked Mr M all the questions  it 
had to  including whether hed considered alternative ways to raise the money  he wanted, 
and what he intended  to spend  it on. The reasons Mr M gave Age Partnership werent 
reasons which  would have raised alarm  bells - gifts to family  (stated  in both loans), a new 
car, and travel to see family. The rules dont  require an equity release firm, or the lender 
which actually lent the money, to check whether  a borrower actually uses the money  for 
what theyve said they would. Nor did they have to get proof of Mr Ms statement  that hed 
discussed it with his family who had been supportive. 
I also find that the terms and conditions of the mortgage and further advance were  clearly 
set out in the documents sent to Mr M. And he had independent legal advice too. So Mr M 
did understand what he was taking out, and the contracts were valid.
I recognise that the estate thinks the short time between loans should have rung alarm bells. 
But the reason  Mr M gave  Age Partnership   to give more money to family  might genuinely 
Ref: DRN56767583have arisen relatively  shortly after the previous borrowing. This, and the fact the rules dont 
say that an equity release broker has to check where money has been  spent,  means  I cant  
say that Age Partnership should  have  thought  something was wrong, and should have 
refused to lend to Mr M.
Ive also seen no medical evidence to indicate that Age Partnership  should have known not 
to lend to Mr M because he was incapable of making a valid decision. And Mr Ms age alone  
doesnt mean he couldnt make valid decisions for himself.
Essentially, Age Partnership didnt break any of the rules  around lending, and there was 
nothing to show it should have known not to recommend the equity release loans to Mr M. I 
recognise his family has been distressed by this discovery, and I sympathise, but I dont find 
that Age Partnership  broke any of the rules.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5676758