K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs M were  sold PPI by Leeds Permanent  Building Society in 1993 to cover  their 
mortgage repayments. Leeds later merged into Halifax and then Bank of Scotland. Ill refer 
to Bank  of Scotland  in this decision as its responsible for Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Neither Mr and Mrs M nor Bank of Scotland can say how or where the sale took place. But 
the PPI was in Mr Ms name only and protected the mortgage if he couldnt  work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  didnt uphold  it. Mr and Mrs M 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive taken it into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
When Mr and Mrs M complained to us they said they had no idea they had PPI and it was 
added to their account without their consent. In their original complaint to Bank of Scotland,  
they said they were  told they had to have  it to get the mortgage and were put under pressure 
to buy it. So Mr and Mrs M havent  been consistent in what theyve said. And I dont think  its 
surprising they dont have clear memories  of events from more  than 25 years ago. 
Bank of Scotland doesnt have any documents from the time of the PPI sale. Again,  I dont  
think thats surprising  given how long ago it was.
I cant know what was discussed at the time of the sale. But Mr and Mrs M didnt  buy the PPI 
when their mortgage started in 1990, it was several years later. So I think theyd have 
understood they didnt have to have  it to get the mortgage. And while  its possible it was 
added without their consent, the evidence I have  especially  bearing  in mind                       
Mr and Mrs Ms account of what happened  hasnt been consistent  isnt strong  enough for 
me to think  this is likely.  I think its more likely PPI was added  to Mr and Mrs Ms account 
because, at the time, it was something  they wanted  and agreed  to.
Bank of Scotland has treated this sale as one where it recommended  the policy for Mr M to 
Mr and Mrs M. This means it needed  to check it was suitable for them. I dont know  what 
steps it took to do this. But, from the limited information Ive got about Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time and the policy details,  I think  it was. I say this because:
Ref: DRN50932022Mr M was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  seem hed have been affected by any 
of the main limitations of the policy,  such as those  affecting  some people  with known 
health issues or certain types  of employment contract. So that means he wouldve  
been able to claim the full policy benefit  if hed needed to.
   
I think the PPI couldve been of use to Mr and Mrs M. Although they say they got sick 
pay, they cant remember what it was  which is understandable  given how long ago 
the sale was. But the PPI wouldve  paid Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage for up to 12 
months for each  successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim Mr M made. 
And this wouldve been  on top of Mr Ms sick pay. A mortgage is a significant 
financial commitment, secured on your home, which is at risk if you fall behind on 
your repayments. So I think having PPI wouldve given  Mr and Mrs M important 
peace of mind if Mr M lost his job or was off work  sick for a long time.
Ive seen nothing  to make me think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs M.
I dont know what information Bank  of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI at the time 
of the sale. Its possible  it didnt give them enough  clear information about some  aspects  of 
the policy. But for the same reasons I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve found the PPI useful if  
Mr M wasnt working for a significant  length of time,  I think its unlikely clearer  information  
would have changed their decision and stopped them from buying the PPI. I dont think      
Mr and Mrs M have  lost out because of anything Bank of Scotland  may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5093202