K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003 to cover Mr Q and was later amended  to include Mrs Q in 2008. Mr and Mrs Q say 
Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs Q bought  a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) alongside  a mortgage. 
TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage  Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life 
cover and critical illness cover. Ive looked at the sale of the PPI cover only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Qs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs Q aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. I dont know for certain what  was said when the policy  
was sold and later amended to include Mrs Q, and there isnt much paperwork available, but 
from what we know about how Halifax sold this type of policy  at the time I think its likely 
Halifax made Mr and Mrs Q aware the PPI was optional, and they chose  to take it out, 
although I can understand why they may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr Q in 2003 and to Mrs Q in 2008. So it had to check that 
the PPI was right for them. Mr and Mrs Q have told us that at the time they took the policy  
and made  the amendment they were entitled to good sick pay from their employers.  But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Qs sick pay and for longer. Based on 
what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Qs circumstances  at the time, they werent affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
So I think it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs Q about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs Q.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs Q have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Ref: DRN52773212Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5277321