K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled the quotation  for a home 
insurance policy.
background
Mr M tried to obtain  home  insurance  from AXA. But it wouldnt issue  a quote  as it was 
concerned about  the risk of flooding  to his property. Mr M said there  was a mistake  on the 
map had AXA used.  A road and river had been  confused. Mr M said hed obtained 
information to show the risk of flooding to his property was actually very low. 
Mr M is concerned other insurers  may make the same mistake.  So he wants AXA to correct 
the information about the location  of the water  course. Hes also concerned how the age of 
his property is being recorded as it may prevent him getting alternative insurance quotes.
AXA said it was unable  to provide a quotation  for a home insurance policy. Mr Ms property 
was considered to be in a flood risk area. And itd decided it was unable to accept the risk of 
providing a new policy. AXA said itd considered the evidence provided by Mr M. But after a 
full assessment it still considered the risk of flooding to be heightened  and declined  the 
quote. AXA said it had no control over data in the mapping system it used. And AXA wasnt 
the reason Mr M was having difficulties obtaining  insurance elsewhere.
AXA said it would normally have passed  the policy to the Flood Re scheme - an initiative 
between government and insurance companies to make policies more affordable for 
customers in high-risk flood areas. But AXA said thered been problems obtaining support 
from Flood Re  in part due to questions about  the age of the property. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with AXAs  response.  So he contacted our service  and our investigator 
looked into the matter. Our investigator  agreed  there might  be some incorrect information 
recorded against Mr Ms property. But he couldnt say AXA had made an error. The 
information was provided by an external mapping company. And he felt it was fair for AXA to 
use this information  to help inform its decision when  assessing how much risk there  might  
be. So he couldnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M didnt  agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. He felt the information 
was fundamentally  wrong. The road and river had been confused. And AXA had a 
responsibility to ensure  it used correct information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says his complaint  isnt about the commercial decisions AXA takes  about  risk. But he 
is concerned about the incorrect data it holds about his property,  which he says is affecting 
him financially. Mr M feels AXA has a responsibility to check  the information  it uses.  He says 
AXA asks customers to make sure they provide  correct answers  when applying  for 
insurance cover. So it should do the same  with its own information. Mr M says a nearby  river 
and road have been mislabelled and this has created an incorrect  risk of flooding from the 
water course. Although hes provided  information  showing the risk of flooding to his property 
is actually very low, AXA has declined to offer a quotation for home insurance.
Ref: DRN53338252I do appreciate how frustrating this must be for Mr M. AXA, like all insurance companies, will 
use data from a range of sources to assess overall  risk. And of course flooding can come 
from a number of causes such as surface water build up, blocked water  flow in rivers or 
overflowing sewers. There does seem to be some confusion in the identification of a road 
and nearby river on the mapping system used by AXA.  And Mr M has provided evidence  that 
shows the risk of flooding  in his area in any given year is around  1 in 1000.  But AXA isnt 
responsible for the mapping data it refers to as part of the risk assessment. The data comes 
from a third party. 
I realise Mr M feels a full assessment cant have been carried out by AXA if the information it 
had about the water course or property was incorrect or incomplete. But any fault in the data 
lies with the data providers  not with AXA. So I cant really hold AXA responsible for any 
mistakes in that information.  
AXA has explained it referred Mr Ms insurance requirements to the Flood  Re government 
scheme. This scheme  is designed  to help customers in potential flood areas who might 
otherwise find it expensive or impossible to obtain  cover. However the referral seems to 
have been rejected as the information  held by Flood Re indicated it was outside of the 
schemes scope. I understand this has now been updated and AXA,  or any other insurer,  
should be able to cede cover to Flood  Re if the property continues  to be considered  at high 
risk of flooding.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. And I do understand how unsatisfying it 
must feel. But its not unreasonable  for AXA to choose the data sources  it sees as 
appropriate when  determining policy risk. And its not responsible for the information  it 
receives.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think AXA has acted unfairly  and I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5333825