K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) was irresponsible  to lend 
to her.
background
Miss T had four loans from Mr Lender between  November 2013 and August 2013  as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 5 Nov 2013 £300 14d £390 (3 rollover) 20 Nov 2013 20 Feb 2014
2 20 Feb 2014 £650 27d £832 (3 rollover) 20 Mar 2014 20 Jun 2014
3 23 Jun 2014 £450 25d £540 (1 rollover) 18 Jul 2014 20 Aug 2014
4 20 Aug 2014 £1,000 6m £416.66* 20 Feb 2015 20 Feb 2015
Payment plan
* Maximum  monthly  repayment over the term of the loan
Miss T says the loans were unaffordable and the repayments were  so high that she had to 
borrow again. She says that Mr Lender  should  have realised form her borrowing pattern that 
her debt problems were getting  worse.
Mr Lender says it asked Miss T about her income and expenditure and found all the 
repayments to be affordable  to her. It says its credit checks did not indicate Miss T was in 
financial difficulties and she settled  loans 1 to 3 on time. Mr Lender adds that when Miss T 
told it of her financial difficulties after paying the first instalment of loan 4, it agreed a 
repayment plan to enable her repay the capital balance with no additional interest.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He considered  there was a 
significant risk that Miss T couldnt  sustainably make the repayment on loan 2 as it was such 
a high proportion  of her income. By loan 3 our adjudicator  considered Miss Ts pattern of 
borrowing itself suggested shed become reliant on such lending. He recommended that 
interest and charges should be refunded on loans 2 to 4 (plus 8% statutory interest)  and that 
adverse information  about loan 2 should be removed  form her credit file. He also 
recommended that loans  3 and 4 should be removed  entirely  from Miss Ts credit file.
Mr Lender responded  to say, in summary, that Miss T could not be considered  to be in a 
pattern of borrowing by loan 3 and its expenditure assessment showed the loans to be 
affordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN59246602But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
Loan 1
I consider Mr Lender should have done  better checks before it approved  this loan.  Because 
the repayment was a relatively large proportion of Miss Ts income,  I think  Mr Lender  should 
also have asked her about her regular expenditure. I cant see it did that, but I dont find it 
likely there would have  been anything in the available information that would have indicated 
loan 1 was unaffordable to Miss T. So I cant conclude Mr Lender was wrong  to approve it.
Loan 2
Miss T rolled over loan 1 three times  before she repaid  it and she applied for loan 2, for more 
than double loan 1, on the same  day. Because of this, and as the scheduled repayment was 
such a significant  proportion of Miss Ts £1,500 income, I consider Mr Lender should have 
carried out a full financial review before approving this loan. Had it done so, I think  its likely it 
would have found the loan to be unaffordable. I say that because:
Just four months later,  Miss T said her monthly  expenditure  was £410 and, in August 
2014, she said it was £620. This left her with a maximum of £258 after making  the 
loan 2 repayment;
Miss T had at least  seven other outstanding short-term loans with at least three  other 
providers at the time she applied  for loan 2. The monthly scheduled repayments on 
those loans was at least £500  according  to Miss Ts credit file.
Ref: DRN59246603Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Miss T, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ts case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 3. I say this because:
By loan 3, Miss T had been in debt to Mr Lender  for over seven months and she was 
continually rolling over loans before she repaid them;
Miss T still had short-term loans with three  other lenders;
Miss T was provided with a new loan within days of settling a previous one and, in 
most cases, the new loan was provided  on the same day as the previous one had 
been repaid. So Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Miss T 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances and that Miss Ts indebtedness was increasing unsustainably;
Miss T wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed Mr Lender.  Loan  4 
was taken out more than nine months after Miss Ts first. And it was for over three 
times the amount. Miss T had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a 
debt to Mr Lender  over an extended  period.
I think that Miss T lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 2 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ts indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period;
the sheer number  of loans and rollovers was likely to have had negative implications 
on Miss Ts ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 2 to 4 and Mr Lender should put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading  as Mr Lender)  
should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Miss T paid on loans 2 to 4;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on refunds from payment date to settlement date*;
Remove any negative  information about loan 2 from Miss Ts credit file.
The number of loans  and rollovers taken from loan 3 onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans 3 and 4 should  be 
removed from Miss Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5924660