K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004
alongside a credit card. Mrs P says Barclays Bank  UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold
her the policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs P cant  remember how the PPI was sold to her. Barclays says the PPI was sold over the 
phone when they called Mrs P after receiving  her credit card application form. Ive seen a 
copy of the form Mrs P saw and signed, and in this there is no mention of PPI. Ive also seen 
screen shots of Barclays internal system which shows  the PPI and card account were  
opened sometime after the initial application was signed. So based on this I think its likely 
Barclays called Mrs P after receiving  this form, and it was at this point that the PPI was sold 
to her.
Mrs P also says she wasnt  aware  the PPI was optional. Barclays  has supplied  a copy of a 
call script  it says wouldve  been used around the time for this type of call - and in the 
absence of a call recording  or any notes from the call this is the best evidence available  of 
what is likely  to have happened at the time. This shows that the PPI wouldve been 
presented as optional and Barclays wouldve explicitly asked Mrs P if she wanted the cover.  
As the PPI was then applied to her account I think its likely  she said yes to the policy.
So while I appreciate what Mrs P has said, based  on the evidence Ive seen, and in the 
absence of any stronger  evidence to support what Mrs P has said,  I think its likely Barclays 
made it clear  Mrs P didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs P, so it had to take reasonable steps  to ensure the 
policy was right for her  and from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time I think  it 
was. I say this because Mrs P was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected  by 
anything which might make it more difficult for her to make  a claim, like having  an existing 
medical condition  or unusual employment circumstances. 
Mrs P says she the policy wasnt suitable  for her as she was entitled  to six months full, 
followed by six months  half sick pay from her employer. But upon a successful  claim the PPI 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months,  and in addition to her sick pay. So these funds 
couldve been used  for other expenses. Mrs P also told us she didnt have any savings or 
insurance to help her make her repayments  had she suddenly  been unable to work. So I still 
think she had a need for this cover.
Mrs P says she wasnt given enough information about the PPI or its terms and conditions. I 
accept its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen, and for all the reasons I think  the policy 
Ref: DRN59672612wouldve been suitable for Mrs P, I think the policy wouldve  been  useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5967261