K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2020. I explained why I was not planning to uphold  
Mr Ts complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr T took receipt  of a used car in February 2017. He financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with FCA. At the point of supply the car was about  two and a half years 
old and had already completed  8,200 miles.
Mr T has had problems  with the car. As follows:
in May 2017 the steering rack and clock spring were  replaced;
in May 2018 there was significant water leak into the boot;
in September 2018 the leak was back and the dealership suspected the earlier 
repair had failed;
subsequently  the steering column has become faulty and Mr T has been  told it will 
need to be replaced.
Mr T was disappointed that the water leak repair hadnt proven successful so he complained 
to FCA. He said the fault had caused mould  to form in the car and he was disappointed only 
to have been provided with inferior courtesy  cars whilst his was off the road being  fixed. FCA 
didnt support his complaint. They explained that they were  only responsible for faults with 
the vehicle that were  present or developing when it was supplied.  Here they accepted  that 
there was a fault that required the steering  rack to be replaced but they explained  that 
relevant legislation allowed them an opportunity to fix that issue. They  noted  that there had 
been no further faults reported with the car until May 2018, about 15 months  after Mr t had 
taken receipt of the car. They said that there  was no evidence  this fault was present or 
developing from the start so they didnt think it was their responsibility to provide a remedy.
Mr T was disappointed with their response so he referred his complaint to this service and our 
adjudicator provided  a view. He thought the car had not proven to be suitably durable. He didnt  
think a reasonable  person would expect  to find so many faults on it in the first few years of 
ownership and he therefore suggested  FCA allow Mr t to reject  the car; return  his deposit  and 
pay him £250 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience  hed experienced.
But FCA didnt agree with the adjudicator. They  didnt think the issues with the car were 
significant enough to warrant a finding  it hadnt been suitably durable. They did offer to 
reduce Mr Ts settlement figure  by £500 if he chose to part exchange but when he rejected 
that offer they asked for a final decision on the complaint  by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the adjudicators view and Im not expecting to uphold this 
complaint. I know that will disappoint Mr T so please let me explain why.
Ref: DRN53869002Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then FCA, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr T. The car here 
was around two and a half years old and had completed about 8,200 miles. I would not 
expect it to have  many  faults when supplied but I think it would be reasonable to expect 
some wear  and tear.
The relevant  legislation  also says that I should take into account whether  a car has proven to 
be suitably durable  when I consider whether its been of satisfactory quality.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask FCA to put this right. 
But FCAs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Here, FCA have accepted  that its most  likely  the fault with the steering  rack in May 2017  
was there  from the beginning. In those  circumstances the relevant legislation  allows them  an 
opportunity to repair the fault  and thats what they did.
The next problem  didnt occur until May 2018,  fifteen months after the car was supplied to 
Mr T. The problem appears to have been  caused by a leak on the rear windscreen wiper 
pipe where the clip had fallen off. I dont think it would be fair to suggest there is evidence 
that pipe was leaking from the beginning. I understand that the leak was quite significant and 
that mould may have started to form but if a pipe had been  leaking for fifteen months  I think  
it would  have become  evident much sooner as the reservoir would have continually emptied 
and the washer  would have stopped  working.  I note that Mr T has explained hed noticed 
water not getting  through to the rear washer just before  the MOT in May 2018.  So I think  that 
suggests the problem had only just started  to occur:  it was a new problem.
The adjudicator suggested there was evidence this car had not proven to be suitably  durable  
and was therefore not of satisfactory  quality.  Im not persuaded  thats  the case  here.  There  
Ref: DRN53869003appear to have been three problems. A failed steering  rack;  a leaking rear windscreen  pipe 
and a steering  column failure. Whilst, I understand that this isnt desirable and must have 
been frustrating  for Mr T I dont think its sufficient evidence of a lack of durability. Mr T has 
been able to complete a higher mileage than the allowance he was provided under the 
agreement so I dont  think the problems have  significantly hindered  his use of the vehicle. It 
wasnt a brand new car when he took receipt  of it and I think  a reasonable person would 
expect some level of wear and tear. Im not persuaded  on the evidence provided that this car 
has experienced excessive faults given the age and the mileage completed and Im 
therefore not of the opinion that it hasnt proved durable.
Mr T has explained  that hes not been provided with equivalent courtesy cars. He has been 
able to cover  a reasonable mileage in the car he was financing and I note that FCA have 
offered £500 off the settlement figure should  he chose to part exchange or £200 towards the 
cost of any cleaning  to remove any mould that may be present. In the circumstances I think 
their offer is reasonable  compensation for the issues  hes experienced and Im not expecting  
to tell FCA to take any further action.
I note that Mr T has also expressed  a concern over the car being an ex hire car. Our 
adjudicator didnt look at this aspect  of his complaint as he thought there was reason for 
FCA to consider rejecting the vehicle  on its durability alone. Im not considering this new 
aspect of Mr Ts complaint here as I cant currently see that FCA have been given an 
opportunity to consider it and its only fair they do so before this service gets involved. If Mr T 
tells me Im wrong about that and the previous  use of the car was considered by FCA then I 
will refer that aspect  of his complaint back to our adjudicator  to provide an opinion  on.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
FCA didnt have anything  further to add to my provisional decision but Mr T did. He said:
since he submitted his complaint thered been additional problems with the steering 
column and the front suspension;
the dealership  had not carried out the full repair on the steering column as theyd said 
it wasnt fully covered by the warranty. They were wrong  about this;
FCA had offered them a free weekend away and an improved part exchange figure 
to settle their claim early and had then stalled in their responses to the adjudicator in 
order to delay a decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr T has said but Im afraid his additional comments havent led me 
to change my mind.  
I took into account the steering column issue when I provided my provisional  decision but I 
wasnt aware of a problem with the front suspension. Mr T says this was highlighted during a 
service in September 2019. Thats more than two and a half years  after he took receipt of 
the car so I dont  think its very likely a fault of that nature was developing when the car was 
supplied. 
Ref: DRN53869004Ive also thought about whether that, and the faults I highlighted in my provisional decision,  
when taken together would suggest  this car hadnt proven sufficiently durable. But I still think  
Mr T has been  able to complete a higher mileage than the allowance  he was provided under 
the agreement  so I dont think the problems have significantly hindered his use of the car. It 
wasnt a brand new car when he took receipt  of it and I think  a reasonable person would 
expect some level of wear and tear.
Mr Ts warranty was not funded through the hire purchase agreement  he had with FCA. Hell 
therefore need to refer any complaint about the warranty to the dealership or the warranty 
company but its not something I can reasonably consider against FCA.
I understand that FCA may have made  some offers to try to resolve the complaint but I dont 
think it would  be fair to suggest  this was wrong or an admission of fault. And overall  Im 
afraid I still dont think theres sufficient  evidence that this car was of unsatisfactory  quality.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5386900