K822xcomplaint
Miss L has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold her an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in February 2011. Miss L says that the account  
fees for her URCA caused her financial hardship.
background 
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service Halifax  agreed  that the URCA was mis-
sold and it offered to refund the account fees that Miss L had paid and added  interest  in line 
with this services approach. Halifax also refunded  all overdraft fees that were incurred by the 
monthly URCA fees. Halifax did though deduct  from this the money that Miss L saved on her 
overdraft as a result  of having the URCA.  Miss L did not agree with this and referred  her 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicators looked at this complaint and they felt that Halifax  needed to do more in 
relation to Miss Ls financial  difficulties. Halifax re-assessed this complaint and it discovered 
that when it had applied a control  facility to Miss Ls account (a control facility is a paid for 
service which  stops overdraft charges being added  to an account)  the facility had not been 
added correctly so Miss L was charged overdraft charges that she should not have been. 
Halifax therefore offered  to do the following
Refund the control  fees that Miss L paid on her account.
Refund all fees added  to Miss Ls account  when she had the control feature on her 
account
Add interest on the above at 8% simple from the date the fees were charged  to the 
date of settlement.
Halifax though  did not agree to refund all the overdraft fees incurred while Miss L held the 
URCA which were  not directly caused by the URCA  fee. 
Miss L did not agree with this offer as she would like all her fees refunded.  Her case was 
reviewed prior to this decision being issued and the adjudicator thought that what Halifax  
had done was sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help me decide  this complaint. Having done so, I think that 
what Halifax has offered to do is sufficient given the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
Let me explain why.
Halifax has already  agreed that the URCA was not sold correctly  so I do not need  to 
consider the sale itself.  Halifax has offered  to refund the account fees with interest in line 
with our approach.  It has also offered to refund  the overdraft charges  directly  caused by the 
account fee. This is in line with what I wouldve recommended had I upheld  this complaint. I 
understand that Halifax deducted the savings that Miss L made  by holding this account  but I 
think that this is okay  as it puts Miss L back in the situation that she wouldve been in had 
Ref: DRN55305552she not held the URCA,  which is what we generally  ask a bank to do if we think an account 
was mis-sold.
In relation to the overall treatment of Miss Ls financial circumstances I think  that what  
Halifax has already  agreed to do is reasonable. Halifax  had a duty to act in a sympathetic 
and positive manner  when it found out about this and I can see that when Miss L contacted 
Halifax about her financial  difficulties Halifax added control to her account  and downgraded 
the account to a fee free account.  I think  that this is appropriate.
I understand that the control facility did not work as intended and overdraft charges were 
added to Miss Ls account when they should not have been. But as Halifax has agreed to 
refund these charges with interest, I think that this is enough.  Indeed by refunding the control 
fees as well Halifax has put Miss L back into a better  situation  then she would have been 
had everything been  administered correctly.
I note that Miss L would like all her overdraft  fees refunded. Although  Halifax  has to treat 
financial difficulties in a positive and sympathetic manner, this does not necessarily mean 
that all the overdraft fees should be refunded, and in this instance  I think that Halifax has 
done enough.
my final decision
My final decision is that what Halifax has offered to do is sufficient  so I am not going to ask it 
to do more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5530555