K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the compensation that hes received  from Nationwide Building 
Society for the distress and inconvenience that he was caused by the way that it dealt with 
his claim under section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.  Hes being helped with his 
complaint by his daughter  to whom he has given a power  of attorney. 
background
Mr W used his Nationwide credit card in July 2017  to pay £160.36 for a new bath. When the 
bath was being fitted he became aware  that it was damaged. He claimed  a refund from 
Nationwide under section 75 of the money  that hed paid for the bath and the £180 that hed 
paid for the fitting. It accepted that Mr W hadnt  damaged the bath and refunded the £180 to 
him in December 2017. Mr W paid for a replacement bath and asked  Nationwide to also 
refund the cost of the bath to him. It then asked him for evidence to show  that the bath was 
damaged. Mr Ws daughter complained to Nationwide and it accepted  that it was 
inappropriate for it to have  asked Mr W for more evidence. So it refunded the cost of the 
bath to Mr Ws account in April 2018  and it offered him £100 compensation by way of 
apology for the unnecessary trouble and upset that hed been  caused. But Mr W didnt 
accept its offer of compensation and a complaint was made to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Nationwide had refunded the cost of the bath and the fitting  to Mr W. And she agreed that 
Nationwide asked for further information  when it wasn't necessary  which  she felt would've 
caused Mr W distress  and inconvenience. But she concluded that Nationwides  offer of £100 
compensation for that distress  and inconvenience  was fair and reasonable.
Mr Ws daughter  has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She 
says, in summary, that she agrees that £100 is a fair offer in respect  of Nationwides delay 
(and she says that her father was out of pocket  for nine months).  But she says its outright 
falsehoods communicated on a point of law seem to have been aimed at deliberately 
refusing legitimate claims and justifies compensation  of £250.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has refunded to Mr W the fitting  cost of £180 and the cost of the bath of £160.36 
that hes claimed from it under section 75. And it accepts that it was inappropriate for it to 
have asked Mr W for more evidence about the damage to the bath after it had accepted  that 
the damage wasnt caused by him. It offered him £100 compensation by way of apology for 
the unnecessary  trouble and upset  that hed been caused. 
Its clear that Mr W has been caused  avoidable distress and inconvenience  by Nationwides 
request for further evidence  and that the request delayed  him receiving a refund. But Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show it has deliberately  tried to refuse a 
legitimate claim.
I consider that its entitled to properly investigate  all claims that are made to it. But it accepts 
that mistakes were made  on Mr Ws claim. Nationwide  has apologised for that and has 
offered Mr W £100 compensation. I consider that to be fair and reasonable compensation for 
Ref: DRN51021742the distress and inconvenience  that hes been caused. And Im not persuaded that a higher 
award of compensation is justified in these  circumstances.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay to Mr W the 
£100 compensation that its offered him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes been 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5102174