K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision which I issued in 
December 2018.  Its attached here and forms part of this final decision.
Both parties  were invited  to comment and provide any further evidence they wished me to 
consider before the decision became final. Neither  party had anything further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments to make  I see no reason to depart from my 
original findings.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint so it follows that Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to 
do anything further.  Barclays Bank  UK PLC has already paid back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI and I think this is all that it needs to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
 
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55398192Provisional decision
background
Mrs G took out a credit  card with Barclays in 2001. At the same time she bought a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover  her repayments for up to 12 months at a time if she couldnt  work. 
Mrs G says it was added  without her knowledge or consent and that she didnt know it was optional.  
She says she didnt need  the cover.
The adjudicator thought that Barclays didnt  explain  the cost and benefit  to her well enough, and that if 
it had done,  she wouldnt have bought it. Barclays disagrees, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having  done so, Im not intending on upholding Mrs Gs complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive come  to this decision.
Mrs G selected  the PPI when  she completed a postal application  for a credit card.  The application  
form made it clear that she had a choice about  it. She chose  to take it by placing a tick in a box. She 
left other boxes for other products blank.
Im satisfied  Mrs G bought the PPI knowing  she had a choice about  it, even though  understandably 
 she doesnt remember this now, many  years later.
Barclays didnt give Mrs G a personal recommendation to buy the PPI, but it still had to make sure it 
gave her enough information  so she could  make an informed decision about whether  she took it.
The adjudicator who first looked at this case thought that Barclays didnt do this well enough.  I agree  
with the adjudicator. There was no information about the cost or benefit  at the point of sale, even 
though Barclays  say more information wouldve been sent to her later.  But this doesnt mean I should 
automatically uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I need to think  about whether Mrs G wouldve  acted  
differently if shed had all the information she needed.
When the adjudicator considered this he did so on the basis of the information Mrs G provided  about 
her sick pay and savings  when she bought the policy   the alternative means  she had to make her 
repayments if she couldnt  work. Mrs G told us that she had at least six months  full sick pay, and at 
least six months salary held in savings. On this basis, the adjudicator thought  that, had Mrs G 
understood the cost and benefits, shed have  decided her existing means were sufficient  and she 
wouldnt have received sufficient added value from the policy to make it worthwhile. 
We hadnt seen  proof of Mrs Gs sick pay and savings. But we have since seen evidence  that shortly 
after the sale a chain of events started that left Mrs G and her partner in financial difficulty. They 
incurred a debt they couldnt pay  which if theyd had the savings Mrs G said she had at the time of 
sale likely wouldnt have happened.  
We asked to see evidence  of Mrs Gs sick pay, salary and savings several times,  but it wasnt 
provided. So, I cant take these into account when deciding her case  now.
Mrs G was eligible  for the cover and doesnt seem to have been affected by any terms which mightve 
made it more difficult for her to make  a successful claim  such as those related to existing medical  
conditions or unusual employment circumstances.  Mrs G chose to take the cover so I think she 
Ref: DRN55398193considered that she had some need for it. And I havent seen anything  to suggest that it was 
unaffordable for her at the time.
So I dont think Mrs G lost out because of anything Barclays did wrong.  So Barclays doesnt need to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost because: 
When the policy  was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
Im currently intending not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint, although  Ill consider any new information  or 
evidence either party wishes me to look at before 8 January,  after which Ill make my final decision.
In particular  it would be helpful if Mrs G could  provide  evidence  of her sick pay entitlement, her 
savings and her salary  at the time of sale. 
If my provisional decision is made final, Barclays will not have to pay any further compensation as I 
understand it has already  paid back the sum in relation to commission  paid.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5539819