K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about interest rate increases on her credit card account with NewDay  Ltd.
background
Miss M has a credit card account with NewDay which she took out in 2014. On three 
occasions, NewDay increased the interest  rate they apply to balances on that account.
Miss M thinks  this is unfair. When she complained  to NewDay,  she says they told her the 
increases were due to information on her credit  reference file. She thinks  they unfairly  relied 
on one entry on her credit  reference  file and didnt take into account other more positive 
information. 
NewDay didnt uphold  Miss Ms complaint to them so she brought  her complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought NewDay had done nothing  wrong.
Miss M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that businesses are entitled  to make commercial  decisions to set  
and change  interest  rates. Its not for us to interfere in that. Our concern, when interest  
rates are changed,  is that customers are treated  fairly  and reasonably. 
The terms and conditions  Miss M agreed  to when she took out the account say that NewDay 
can change the interest  rate (condition 3.8).
They also say that if they do so, theyll give 60 days notice. And give the customer  the 
option to close  their account  and repay  the balance at the existing  interest rate.
On the three occasions that NewDay decided to increase the interest rate applied  to Miss 
Ms account,  they wrote  to her to inform her, giving the appropriate notice.  
Ive seen copies  of those letters. Each of them makes it very clear that Miss M has an option 
to close her account and repay the balance  at the existing rate over a reasonable period  of 
time. And on each  occasion, NewDay give Miss M more  than two months to inform them if 
she wishes to close her account.
Miss M says she didnt receive any of these three letters. They were sent to the same 
address shes given us. Im aware  that letters do sometimes go astray in the post, but I cant  
hold NewDay responsible for that. 
Newday also say they sent texts  to Miss M to inform her about the increased interest rates.  
Miss M says she didnt receive them.
Ive also seen copies  of monthly  account statements sent to Miss M. These  include  
reference to the interest rate. Even  if Miss M hadnt received any of the letters  advising her 
Ref: DRN59650772about the increases, she would have picked up from her statements that the rate had 
changed. 
And given  that on each  occasion she had more than two months to tell NewDay  she wanted  
to close the account,  she would have  picked up the increase  in sufficient time to query it - 
and then close her account if she wished.
Based on the evidence  we have, Im satisfied  NewDay did all they could reasonably  be 
expected to do to inform  Miss M of the increases in her interest  rate.
Im satisfied on balance, its most  likely Miss M chose to continue to use her account  after 
she became aware  of the interest rate changes,  rather than close  it and pay off her balance  
at the previous interest rate.
Given that NewDay took reasonable steps to inform Miss M about the increases  and gave 
her the option  to pay off her balance at the existing interest rate  I cant  see that theyve 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way theyve handled her account.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5965077