K821x#15Complaint
Mrs P complained with the assistance of her daughter that Phoenix Life Limited  had dealt 
wrongly with her late husbands  pension arrangements. Some of this was done  with Sun 
Alliance. Responsibility for this complaint lies with Phoenix Life.
A complaint was also made about the provider of her late husbands annuity (bought  with the 
non-protected rights element of his pension  plan).This  complaint was considered separately.
Background
In 1989 Mr P (then aged  50) transferred  his accrued benefits  under  the British  Steel  Pension  
Scheme into a personal pension plan with Sun Alliance.  The documents from the time 
recorded a transfer value  of £9,090  was paid to the new plan. This included  £2,376  which 
was the value of the protected rights element. Mr Ps selected retirement date was in May 
2004 (when he was aged  65). This transfer  was later considered under the pension review 
and Mr P accepted  an offer of £430. The pension review was a historic review  led by the 
then regulator  which looked at the widespread mis-selling of pension plans.
In January 2004 Sun Alliance sent Mr P a pack letting  him know his retirement  date was 
approaching and that he would have various options. The options would include the 
opportunity to take a tax-free lump  sum and there  was also reference to being  able to buy a 
pension from themselves or another company. Mr P responded and further information was 
supplied.
Sun Alliance  provided a pack  of information  enclosing illustrations. The letter attaching the 
illustrations contained  a section entitled Description of Illustration (Non  Protected Rights 
Benefits). This was in the same  sized typeface  as the rest of the letter  but was underlined. It 
referred to this illustration  having been prepared on various  bases. One of these was that it 
had been prepared on a single life basis.
The next paragraph on the next page  was entitled Description of Illustration (Protected 
Rights Benefits). And then says this illustration  is just an example, prepared  to give you an 
idea of the amount of income a pension with us would  pay you each  year in respect of your 
Protected rights pension fund.
Attached to the letter were further documents. One illustration had a cover  sheet that was 
headed Non Protected  rights and one had a cover sheet that referred to Protected  Rights .
There were no other references  in any part of the pack  or illustrations  to this distinction; nor 
was there  any explanation  that these two parts  of Mr Ps pension  were separate  and distinct.
The Non-Protected  Rights illustration pack said the total pension fund including  the relevant  
bonuses was £24,335.80. The illustration  only offered an option of buying  an annuity (a 
regular yearly pension  payment) or a total transfer  value (if Mr P wanted to buy his pension 
from another provider). There  was no option offering details of a tax free lump  sum.
The Protected Rights illustration pack set out the guarantees and gave the total pension fund 
of £8,709.67. It also set out that:
..The Pensions Act 1995 requires that any pension purchased by this portion of the fund 
must be increased each  year by the lower of increase in the Retail Prices Index (RPI) and
Ref: DRN526093725% This is known as Limited Price Indexation  [It went on to say that]:
Spouse's Pension
In addition to the pensions  mentioned, should the Planholder predecease their spouse, [Mrs 
P]..a survivors  pension equal  to half of the Planholders pension  will become payable  
throughout their spouses lifetime.
Mr P contacted Sun Alliance as he couldnt see an option for tax -free cash. And he 
understood that he was entitled to one. Mr P didnt refer to this being part of any particular  
illustration. Throughout  his contact and correspondence he only ever referred  to his pension  
as a single  whole entity. In a letter dated 19 March  2004 he set out that:
I recently received the paperwork  for my pension.. and have found understanding  it rather 
difficult so enlisted  the help of my son to assist  me.
The one thing  that I noticed  was that I was not given an option to commute  a percentage of 
my pension to a tax-free payment. My son has tried to speak to people on your 'so called' 
help line but found them anything but. When he asked why the commutation option  was not 
included in the paperwork he was first given  the blanket excuse for not parting with 
information that it was against the Data Protection Act.. and when he then asked for a 
general reason  why a person would not be given  the option was told it was the Inland
Revenues decision
Since then my son has spoken  to the Inland Revenue and the Pensions Advisory  Service,  
neither of which could  advise  him correctly until I have written confirmation that commutation 
is not an option for me therefore I require you to send me an option,  or written confirmation  
of under what regulations I am exempt.
When I agreed to move  my pension many years ago to your company I was told that when  it 
matured I would have  the option  of cash, a pension or mixture of both and have been looking 
forward to that day for some time now. Have I been misled by your package  and subsequent  
advice or at the very beginning  when  your company was sold to me, if the case is the later I 
may feel it warrants seeking legal advice.
Mr P wrote again on 8 April 2004  and this included:
I wrote to you on the 19 March 2004  requesting an explanation as to why I was not given 
the option to commute a percentage of my pension which  Is due to commence  5 May 2004, 
this letter  was sent recorded  delivery and was signed for by a member  of your staff at
0942hrs 22 March 2004.
I have received no reply  to date from yourself or any other person within your organisation 
so telephoned  your company. The person I spoke to denied receiving the letter until I pointed 
out the fact that it was sent by recorded  delivery and signed for, should  it be of importance  
the Post Office  state  with 48 hours  notice they can provide the name of the person who 
actually accepted it
When I spoke to this representative of your company I informed them  that I had found an 
original document  that clearly states 25% of my fund can be taken as a lump sum and the 
rest as a pension I was asked to forward this document  to you, which is clearly not going to 
happen as it my proof of information  given  to me regarding my options at the end of the term
Ref: DRN52609373(Please find attached a photocopy)
..I still do not understand why a reply has not been forthcoming within 3 weeks  I still require 
the necessary  documentation to commute 25% of my fund to a cash payment or a written 
explanation as to why I am being  denied the option for my legal representative. I feel your 
company are being stubborn and obstructive as I am simply asking  for what  I have earned 
and what I was promised  all those  years ago.
And Mr P attached  copies of original documents from 1989.
On 16 April 2004 Sun Alliance replied. They said they couldnt offer Mr P the 25% tax free 
cash lump sum. At the time they gave  their reasoning that related to original documentation 
from the British Steel scheme.
Mr P followed this up on 26 April 2004 and explained hed been told that Sun Alliance had a 
contractual obligation to pay the 25% tax free lump sum if he required  it; which  he did. And 
that hed been told it was Sun Alliances responsibility to resolve such difficulties.
On 12 May 2004 (after  Mr Ps retirement date)  Sun Alliance started an investigation.  They 
asked Mr P to complete  a questionnaire  and provide documents.
Ive seen an internal  undated memo (date stamped  1 July 2004) from the customer  liaison 
unit. This confirms that Mr P was entitled  to the 25% tax free lump  sum and attached  a copy 
of the document from the British Steel  scheme. They asked  for Mr P to urgently be provided  
with copies of his vesting papers and to pay Mr P compensation given  the circumstances of 
an appropriate amount.
A letter was also issued to Mr P dated 30 June 2004. This letter  said it was confirming 
details about Mr Ps plan.  It referred  to the value transferred and dates of operation  and gave 
the Guaranteed Basic Sum of £24,161  (including  £6,368 GMP protected  rights benefits).
It is clear to me this information was wrong.  But I will return to this in my findings  section  
below.
The letter went on to uphold Mr Ps complaint  and say Sun Alliance hadnt been able to 
ascertain why there had been  a failure  to receive  the necessary documents from the British  
Steel scheme. It also explained  the Claims department would be in touch to provide the 
quote for his pension.
On 7 July 2004 the Sun Alliance pensions department issued Mr P with what they called a 
revised pack and said they were paying  Mr P compensation  in the form of interest on the 
tax free cash sum and an extra payment of £25.
The updated  pack contained a document with the cover sheet headed (Non Protected 
Rights) Retirement Illustration Pack Contents. This gave a total pension  fund of £24,335.80;  
and provided four options. The second option set out a tax free lump  sum of £6,083.95 and 
then a yearly pension payment (annuity) of £1,825.20.  This was to be paid on a monthly  
basis and was guaranteed for five years.
A copy of Mr Ps acceptance letter has been provided. This was received by Sun Alliance on
16 July 2004.  In it Mr P confirms that in answer  to the list of options regarding  his pension he 
had decided to take option  2.
Ref: DRN52609374It was set up on a single life basis (this meant  there was no spouses  pension to pay if he 
died). This wasnt set out in the updated  illustration and pack information.
The result of these  events is that Mr P only took benefits from the non-protected rights 
element of his Sun Alliance plan in 2004. The benefits relating to the protected  rights  
remained unclaimed.
After Mr P received his tax free lump sum in 2004  he went  on to receive  the monthly 
payments of his annuity (the annual pension hed bought with the remainder of the fund from 
his non-protected rights part of his plan).  These monthly payments were  initially paid to him 
by Sun Alliance. But in January 2006  the responsibility for the administration (including 
payment) of Mr Ps annuity  moved to another business. This was because Sun Alliance/ 
Phoenix Life sold that part of their business.
Mr P died on 11 October 2017.  It isnt clear to me what contact took place and when after 
this date. But I have  seen that there was some  correspondence in May and June 2018  and 
thereafter. It seems to me there  must have been contact prior to these dates.
In September  2018 Phoenix  Life wrote  and confirmed a payment to Mrs P. This payment 
was said to represent the protected  rights element of Mr Ps plan. And that this element 
hadnt been used to take any benefits  before (here an annuity  was required) in 2004.
This letter referred to the sum being paid to Mrs P and how it had been  calculated. Its 
understood £7,731.56 was paid to Mrs P and was taxed according to the rules applied  by 
Phoenix Life at 45%. Phoenix Life explained  the tax was applied following the changes in the 
law in April 2012 and because Mr P hadnt  claimed his protected  rights benefits before  he 
reached the age of 75.
Phoenix Life offered  a payment  of £100 as they said they were  sorry they couldnt  find 
original documentation.
This offer wasnt accepted and Mrs P with the help of her daughter complained  to this 
service about what happened  with Mr Ps pension arrangements.
An investigator at this service looked at this complaint. Original documents were supplied  by 
the business that had taken over paying Mr Ps annuity previously. I have now ensured that 
copies of these  have been  provided  to Phoenix Life. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaints ought to be upheld. In respect  of Phoenix Life 
she thought they had offered enough.  Mrs Ps daughter requested an ombudsman  look at 
the complaints.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 December 2019.  I didnt  agree  with what  our investigator 
thought. I indicated I intended to uphold this complaint and why; I also set out what  I 
intended to say Phoenix Life would be required to do. All parties were given the opportunity  
to respond.
At the time of my provisional decision I highlighted several matters  where  I requested further 
information, including:
Ref: DRN52609375Id seen a reference  to Mrs P having  had solicitors  involved in these matters. But I 
couldnt understand what theyd  done. I had seen a reference by Mrs Ps daughter to 
the costs involved.  I explained this service doesnt usually make awards for legal 
representation and that here, based  on what  Ive seen so far, I dont  feel that would 
be fair.
I also set out that based on what I had seen it looked like the solicitors didnt 
understand enough about pensions and they seemed to have confused the protected 
rights element with the non-protected  rights. Despite Mr Ps annuity providers 
correctly explaining the situation several times. I also explained  what  Mrs P might 
want to do next.
Mrs P and her daughter havent provided any further  information  on this.
I also asked Mrs Ps daughter to confirm that Mrs P has not been  a tax payer since  
2017. And if my understanding  that she doesnt receive  any other income  apart from 
her state  pension was correct.
It has been confirmed  Mrs Ps only income  is her state pension and that she is not required 
to pay tax on her income.
Response on behalf of Mrs P and Mr Ps estate to the provisional decision
In general terms Mrs P and her daughter accepted  my decision. But it has been made clear 
that they still dont  really  understand  what has happened or what  anything means.
But I am left with the impression that as Mrs P is now aged 81 there is a hope  that what  has 
happened will be made right. There has been a request for things to be explained  in simple 
terms. Ive seen that Mrs P and her children are worried  that if Phoenix  Life had to do 
anything, they wont  understand it. 
My intention is that I have  set things out clearly  enough that I would expect  Phoenix  Life to 
understand what I am saying they must do.
Response of behalf of Phoenix  Life
It appears to me that Phoenix  Life dont agree with parts of my provisional  decision.
They think  that the summary  of the complaint I provided in the provisional decision  is 
different to the complaint  originally made.
Phoenix Life suggest the initial complaint was about the non-protected rights annuity set up 
in 2004 and that should have escalated at 3% and provide  a 50% spouse provision on 
death. 
Phoenix life explain  they rejected this as they thought the original quote clearly  stated it was 
a level annuity  without  escalation; and that Mr P chose this. Phoenix Life also thought the 
evidence provided  on behalf of Mrs P was in respect of the protected  rights annuity (the 
element that Mr P hadnt  claimed).
Phoenix Life think the provisional decision  disregarded this and suggested Mr P would not 
have taken a single  life annuity  if he had been  made aware of this.
Ref: DRN52609376And they say Mr P knowingly chose to take the revised (later issued) non-protected rights  
quote of 25% tax free cash and a remaining annuity  of £1,325.20 on a monthly  basis 
guaranteed for 5 years. 
Phoenix Life highlight  the original covering letter and an explanatory  note that were sent with 
the first quotes on 9 March 2004  and think this is clear enough to set out what the position 
was.
Overall they don't consider  it reasonable for me to conclude Phoenix  Life didn't make  this 
clear.
Phoenix Life have  confirmed why they didn't originally  offer the tax free cash  to Mr P and 
that this was corrected  as part of a complaint In 2004 when the updated quote was sent to 
Mr P to include  the tax free cash.
I agree  this is what happened  and had hoped I summarized this previously. Save  that I have 
seen Phoenix Life have said that updated  quotes were sent, and it isnt clear to me what  the 
contents were of the full bundle of information sent when the updated information  containing  
the tax-free cash option was sent.  But I dont consider here this would alter my thinking.
Phoenix also pointed  to their letter dated  30 July 2004. 
So they also dont  think it reasonable to conclude they didn't make Mr P aware of the 
unclaimed protected rights.
Its accepted the original  quotes were incomplete because they didn't include a 25% tax free 
cash option. But they consider it was clear there were two distinct sections including 
separate quotes and discharge forms for the non-protected and protected  rights  sections.  
And that it was clear  the annuity quotes  for each section were  provided on a different basis  
given the statutory requirement for protected rights  at that time.
Overall Phoenix Life don't  agree with the assertion Mr P did not understand his options. 
They point to the query he raised  about  his contractual right to tax-free cash  at that time. 
They think  the evidence  tends to suggest  Mr P made an informed choice. And they don't 
consider it unreasonable to assume  that Mr P made  a conscious  informed  decision to take 
the non-protected rights on a single life basis and defer  the protected rights element which 
could later be used  to provide an additional  retirement benefit including  spouse's  pension  or 
(following legislation  changed) a lump  sum death benefit.
But they agree that they should have continued to periodically remind Mr P of his unclaimed  
benefits.
Phoenix Life have  stressed  that the former (unclaimed) protected rights  benefits have been 
claimed as a lump  sum death benefit  in line with current legislative requirements.  They  say 
Mrs P could have used the proceeds  from the plan to provide  herself  with a spouses 
pension from the date of her husbands  death.
Ref: DRN52609377Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  been 
persuaded to depart  from the thinking  and conclusions reached in my provisional decision.
Id like to thank all parties  for their consideration and I have looked at everything  provided 
and said with real care.  
But having  looked at everything, I continue to be left with the firm impression that Mr P would 
not have understood his choices and selections sufficiently in 2004.  I think this is the 
consequence of the very specific events that took place in relation to his quotes. I dont think  
the documentation he was given during the process  of taking his benefits at retirement  was 
sufficiently clear and at times it was mis-leading and inaccurate.
I think if Mr P had been given accurate and clear  information he would have claimed all his 
pension benefits  in 2004. I dont  accept there  is any persuasive reason  to think  he wouldnt 
have done so. I think the reason he didnt  take his protected rights benefits in 2004 was 
because he didnt know he had any unclaimed  benefits. He thought he was taking the whole 
of his pension  benefits.
Ive seen that Phoenix Life suggest my provisional decision went further  that what  Mrs P had 
originally complained about. But I dont  agree. I accept that Mrs P and her daughter  may not 
have used the terms or defined their complaint in the way I have. But I think  this highlights  
the failings and inadequacy of the explanations and information provided. It is clear  enough  
to me that Mrs P is unhappy on her own behalf  and that of her husband (and his estate)  that 
he was wrongly dealt with in relation  to his pension arrangements. And this has been an 
ongoing failure relating to his original  selections  and what he intended and understood and 
in relation to the consequences of this.
I think the inadequacy of consistent and accurate information being  provided from the start 
caused Mr P to overlook the guaranteed benefits available from the protected  rights  element 
of his pension  plan. This meant he was deprived of the opportunity of receiving income to 
which he was entitled for 13 years. I am told this would have made  a great difference to Mr 
and Mrs P and I accept this. This is also another reason why I dont accept he would have  
chosen to defer any benefits; even if he knew this was a potential  choice  (which  I dont 
accept he did understand).
As I previously set out, I cant understand why nothing was done to draw  Mr Ps attention  to 
the fact he had unclaimed protected rights, in the 13 years  that followed from 2004.  Based 
on what I have seen  I also cant understand the time it took to identify that Mrs P was entitled 
to the protected rights benefits after her husbands death.
It appears to me the documents issued in January  and March  2004 werent as clear as they 
could have been about the different elements of Mr Ps pension  and his options; or what  that 
meant when it came  to his choices. But overall it is this information taken with what then 
happened, including Mr Ps queries and further  documents being issued that I think  really  
confused matters.
Although I think the initial information could have better drawn attention  to the fact the non-
protected and protected rights elements were separate and had different options attached to 
them. And the explanation  that the illustration of the options for the non-protected rights 
Ref: DRN52609378element had been prepared on a single life basis and what  this meant could also have been 
clearer. I might not have decided this information  alone was inadequate.
But I think things were  made even less clear for Mr P once  he started questioning why he 
hadnt been given the option of the 25% tax free cash.
It is unsatisfactory that the only reason Mr P was eventually able to obtain  the tax free lump  
sum to which he was entitled, was as a consequence of his determination (and I suspect 
need). And I can understand why Mrs P and her daughter might  be feeling the same now.  
Based on what I have seen it appears Mr P was also driven  to pursue the tax-free  cash  in 
2004 as he knew  colleagues were entitled. I think otherwise the information  provided at the 
time might have dissuaded him from pursuing  cash to which he was entitled. 
Even when  it was realised  that Mr P was entitled to tax-free cash  in 2004, he was given the 
wrong information. The letter of apology sent on 30 June  2004 to resolve matters told Mr P it 
was summarizing his pension benefits. It said there  was a guaranteed basic sum of £24,161 
which included his protected rights  benefit  of £6,368. This was wrong. These  were  two 
separate totals relating  to the non-protected  rights and the protected rights elements.
I think this was mis-leading information,  particularly when taken with the updated retirement 
pack issued which only dealt with the non-protected  rights, would have understandably  led 
Mr P to think that when  he made his choice in July 2004 he was dealing with the whole of his 
pension benefits.  I dont think it would be reasonable in the circumstances  (particularly 
having seen Mr Ps lack of understanding in his letters) to conclude that Mr P would have  
understood his queries about  tax-free  cash only applied to his non-protected rights element.
Nor do I think it would  be reasonable to conclude that Mr P ought to have  discounted what  
he was told in the letter and return to the documents issued in March  2004 and understand 
that Sun Alliance had made a mistake and they had failed to refer directly to the two different 
elements of his plan.
I accept that Phoenix  Life and I may readily refer to protected  and non-protected rights  
elements; but I dont  consider the terms are as readily accessible to or easily  distinguished 
by others. Particularly where there were no references in any part of the original pack or 
illustrations to this distinction; nor any explanation  that these  two parts  were  separate  and 
distinct. And where  the further  information was only in relation to a single element and 
references to both elements seem to have  been  mixed.
I think Mr Ps letter to Sun Alliance choosing  his pension option makes  it clear enough he 
thinks he is taking all the benefits he thinks he has available.  I also think it is clear enough 
from Mr Ps initial letter  to Sun Alliance that he is having problems understanding.  It would 
have been reasonable  for Sun Alliance/ Phoenix  Life to have taken steps to ensure Mr P 
understood the position here; particularly given the errors and mis-information they made 
and provided. If Mr P had been adequately dealt with I think he would have taken his 
guaranteed benefits also in 2004.
I have considered Phoenix  Lifes submissions with care. But I dont  accept Mr P was in a 
position overall in 2004,  due to the specific circumstances of what happened, to make an 
informed choice. I dont  agree  that what happened  was the consequence  of a conscious  and 
informed decision.  I dont think this is what the evidence  supports.
Ref: DRN52609379I do think this tends  to highlights why the regulator  commends the value for many to seek 
advice when make  such  important decisions.
I have thought with care about what Mr P might  reasonably have been expected  to do if he 
had been presented with accurate and clear information. I accept there  is an element of 
considering what  is most  likely on balance. Based on what  I have seen I dont think he would 
have chosen the open market option (in other words transferred to an alternative provider).
I have also thought about whether Mr P would have chosen to buy his non-protected  rights 
annuity on a joint life basis, although  that would have reduced his initial annuity payments. In 
considering this I have  seen  that the updated retirement pack issued in July 2004 didnt set 
out that the illustration/  options were based on a single life plan and that they were on a level 
(rather than increasing payment) basis.
I accept that Mr P would  have wanted  to make  arrangements for his wife. And I have 
balanced this against the reduced payments that would have resulted from changing the 
terms on which the annuity that was set up was started.
In relation to the non-protected  rights part of Mr Ps pension arrangements. My thinking is 
reached partly on the basis  of my understanding that Mrs P receives  no other  income apart 
from her state pension. 
So I think Mr P would reasonably have been  concerned to ensure  he did the best he could  to 
ensure his wife would receive some income  should he predecease her. And based  on what 
hed seen I think he would have understood (albeit  incorrectly) that his pension choice 
included a spousal benefit.
So I have  had to consider  what  I think its reasonable to conclude  Mr P would have done had 
he received clear and accurate information in 2004. I tend to think  he would have chosen a 
joint life basis for his non -protected rights element. Although I think  he would have chosen 
this to be set up on the basis of a reduction. In other words on his death  a spouses pension  
would be paid but at a reduced level to that he was paid. I also dont think he would have 
chosen for his pension  to be paid on an escalating basis but a level basis.
The reason  I have reached  this conclusion is that Mr P had a modest sum from his non-
protected rights fund with which to buy his annuity. Each additional level of cover, for his wife 
and if payments were  to increase  would have had a significant impact on the amount of 
annuity he was able to buy. So I think its reasonable to conclude he would have chosen  a 
modest form of potential future planning and income.
Mrs P and her family understandably  feel overwhelmed  and confused  by what  has happened 
and the detail I have needed to set out in this decision. I expect Phoenix Life to do all they 
can to explain their compliance with what I have said they must do to Mrs P as clearly as 
possible.
What Phoenix Life need  to do
Phoenix Life must undertake the following  calculations:
Re: Protected rights  element
A.
Ref: DRN526093710Calculate what payments  ought to have been  made to Mr P in his lifetime from the date of 
his retirement on 5 May 2004 until the date of his death in relation to the protected  rights 
element of his pension.
Based on the documents from 2004 it appears this would  have  started as an annual sum of 
£586.56 escalating  at 3% a year.
The total of this sum is what  Mr P ought to have received in his lifetime if Phoenix Life/
Sun Alliance  had done what I think they ought  to have done. This ought  to be a gross sum. 
On what I have been told Mr P does  not appear to have been  paying tax in retirement.
Interest ought  to be added to each  annuity payment from the date it was due until the date 
settlement is made at 8% simple a year.
Once this figure has been calculated it ought  to be reduced by the sum paid to Mrs P in 
September 2018- this being the figure after tax.
The remaining  sum ought then to be paid to Mrs P as a lump sum. Mrs P is apparently not 
paying tax in retirement.
B.
Phoenix Life also need to calculate the amount of spousal annuity Mrs P ought to have been 
receiving from the protected rights element of Mr Ps plan following his death.
Based on the 2004 documents it appears  a figure  of £293.28 escalating  at 3% a year was 
identified at the time.
Phoenix Life will need to assess  the value of these payments that ought  to have been paid to 
Mrs P since  her husbands death  in October 2017 up to the time of settlement. These 
payments will need  to be paid to Mrs P with the addition  of 8% interest simple paid on each 
annuity payment  from the date it was due. My understanding is that Mrs P doesnt pay tax in 
retirement and thus no deduction needs to be made to allow  for tax.
C.
Phoenix Life will also need  to assess the cost of buying an annuity  for Mrs P to the amount 
she ought to receive  in respect of the protected rights spousal pension, on the same terms 
as she ought to have been  receiving it.
Instead of purchasing and setting up an annuity  for Mrs P, I think its right here to pay
Mrs P the cost of buying this level of annuity gross. It will be a matter  for Mrs P if she 
chooses to use this sum to buy an annuity  or not. I think  this is the fairest  approach in the 
circumstances on this element.
Re: Non-protected  rights element
In relation to the non-protected  rights part of Mr Ps pension arrangements. As Ive explained 
my current  thinking is informed through my assessment of what I think Mr P would have 
done had he received  clear and accurate information in 2004. I am setting out what Phoenix 
Life need to do now.
Ref: DRN526093711I think Mr P would have received a smaller annuity had it been set up from the outset to 
include a spouses  pension. In those circumstances  Im required to consider  whether Mr or
Mrs P received any lasting benefit  from this over payment. Based on what  I have seen this 
doesnt appear to have  been the case.  I am told that Mr and Mrs P have struggled on a 
limited income and so I think the over payment was used for day to day living  expenses.
There is nothing that suggests to me the payments  were used  to increase savings for 
example. So on that basis  I am able to put aside any concerns of higher amounts  being paid 
to Mr P than would have  been if his non protected rights annuity had been  set up with a 
spouses pension.
On that basis there was no past loss to Mr P between 2004 until his death in 2017 as he was 
receiving his annuity payments on this element. But Mrs P has suffered the loss of a 
spouses annuity income from the date her husband died and she continues  to face future  
loss.
So Phoenix need to address the missed payments up to the time of settlement and future  
loss thereafter. I intend to say they must:
D.
Establish the spouses annuity  that Mrs P should have been receiving since her husbands 
death if it had been bought in 2004  when Mr P took his benefits.  It's reasonable for Phoenix 
Life to refer to the historic  annuity rates on the basis  of the sum to be the spouses one third 
reduction of the full rate Mr P could have purchased for himself, rather  than being  the same  
level as the original annuitant.  I also accept  it would have been  bought  on a level basis.
I recommend Phoenix Life use the rates they would have had available to Mr P at the time 
and should provide these  to Mrs P.
Once Phoenix have  established the payments she ought to have  received  as a spouse  from 
the death of her husband to the date of settlement, the overall  sum of these payments 
should be calculated  gross; my current understanding  is that Mrs P has not been  paying tax 
during this time. Interest ought to be added to each annuity payment from the date it was 
due at 8% simple a year and this sum is to be paid to Mrs P directly.
E.
Mrs P is now aged 81 and in the circumstances I dont consider it necessary for Phoenix Life 
to buy an annuity  for the same amount she ought  to be receiving  in the future  as a spouses 
pension.
Instead Phoenix Life need to establish the open market cost of now buying  the level of 
spouses annuity that she ought to be receiving. This cost can be considered  without any 
adjustment to notionally  allow for any income tax rate (unless Phoenix Life are informed Mrs 
P is a tax-payer). The sum ought to be paid directly to Mrs P.
F.
Ref: DRN526093712Phoenix will need to pay Mrs P £750 to reflect the very real distress  and inconvenience that I 
have no doubt  she has suffered for an extended period of time as a consequence of the 
errors and failures  pertaining to her husband and her own interests.
G.
8% interest simple is also to be added  to any outstanding sums due to Mrs P following 21 
days after Phoenix Life have been informed of Mrs Ps acceptance of a final decision on 
these matters.
Final decision
So for the reasons given I uphold the complaint made by Mrs P and on behalf of Mr Ps 
estate against  Phoenix  Life Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5260937