K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the poor service  he got from Barclays Bank UK PLC after he was the 
victim of fraud. He was worried the credit  Barclays put into his account  might only be 
temporary. And the bank didnt keep him updated as promised.
background
Unfortunately, Mr B was the victim of fraud.  Money was taken out of his Barclays  account  
without his authority.  After  Mr B got in touch with the bank  it credited  his account for the 
amount of the withdrawal  two weeks after it was taken out (by the fraudsters).
Mr B got in touch with Barclays  as he was concerned the credit  the bank had given him 
might be temporary  and taken  back.  In summary, he didnt get the level of service he 
expected from Barclays,  including  late responses   or none at all.
In the meantime, Mr B had organised  an advance  on his salary.
Barclays accepted  it hadnt handled things as well as it should have done. So it said itd give 
Mr B £150  compensation and a further £50 to cover  the cost of his various calls to the bank.
Mr B wasnt  happy with Barclays response, so he got in touch with us. One of our 
investigators looked into things for him. But he thought the banks offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree. He still didnt think Barclays offer properly  recognised  the upset hed been 
caused  and the poor service hed received  when  making his complaint. So his complaint 
has been referred to me to review  and make a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B feels quite  strongly about whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what  hes 
said to both us and the bank. And thats not surprising. After all, hes been the victim of fraud 
 and money taken  out of his account  without him agreeing to it. So hes bound to be 
concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr B that I agree  with the investigators  view that the offer from 
Barclays is a fair and reasonable one. My reasoning for coming to this conclusion is slightly  
different from that of the investigator  so Ill set out below what Ive considered.
First, its important to say that Im not looking at the fraud that took place. Barclays  has, 
rightly, refunded Mr B for the money  taken  out of his account. So he hasnt suffered a loss in 
that regard.
And I have  to be mindful much of what Mr B understandably  complains about is how 
Barclays dealt with him (or perhaps as he sees it how it didnt deal with him) after the credit 
had been applied to his account.
Ref: DRN58776942Thats because complaint handling by financial  businesses isnt (what is known as) a 
regulated activity. So, strictly speaking,  it isnt something we can help with. We dont have 
the power to do so  and any (higher) award we might make about that might not be 
enforceable. That wouldnt help Mr B.
I realise theres a fine distinction between the original  matter Mr B complained  about   the 
unauthorised withdrawal from his account,  which is a regulated  activity and one we can look 
at  and the subsequent handling  of the matter that resulted in a further complaint. But 
I hope Mr B will understand this distinction  and that I cant act outside my legal powers.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B says about the inconvenience he suffered  in terms of 
having to get an advance  on his salary until he got the money put back  into his account. So 
Ive looked at the statements of his account Barclays  has sent me.
My review  showed Mr B gets monthly  credits from a business he appears to be connected 
with. These  are around  the same  date each month. But I can also see the credit for the 
month when the unauthorised withdrawal was made  is immediately after that date  some 
two weeks earlier than normal.
I can also see Mr Bs account has an overdraft facility with it. Indeed, even after he had the 
advance salary credited  to his account it was overdrawn. But I cant see that Mr B was 
charged any fees or interest for being overdrawn. So it doesnt look like he suffered a 
financial loss in this regard. But, for the avoidance  of doubt, Id expect Barclays to make sure 
this was the case and refund any fees and interest associated with this time if they were 
charged at a later date.
Given the limitations on what Im able to look at, I think the offer from Barclays is fair and 
reasonable. So Im not asking the bank to do anything more. But I do accept its very difficult  
to get such offers entirely  right in the eyes of those that have suffered when a financial 
business makes a mistake.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with my decision.  He may want  to take his complaint 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we, in trying to resolve 
his dispute with Barclays informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant  help Mr B any further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5877694