K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Virgin Money  plc wont refund to him the £160 annual  fee that hes been 
charged for a credit card.  
background
Mr P applied to Virgin Money for a credit  card in November 2018.  His application  was 
accepted and an account was opened  in his name  (and an additional card was also 
provided). He used the card but when  he received  his monthly statement in January 2019   
which included the £160 annual fee  he complained to Virgin  Money. He wasnt  satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  believe 
that Virgin Money had done anything wrong so he said that he wouldnt be asking it to refund 
the annual fee.
Mr P has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says that the 
account isnt used and he wouldnt pay an annual fee for a card that he hardly uses. He says 
that it was clearly a mistake that he applied for a card with an annual fee and that Virgin 
Money should at least show  some  compassion and give him some help.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P made an online application to Virgin  Money  for a credit card in November 2018. He 
selected a premium card for which a fee of £160  was payable.  He says that that was clearly 
a mistake. But Virgin Money  sent him its pre-contract credit information about  the card which  
said that there was an annual  fee of £160.  Mr P accepts that he received that information  but 
didnt read it. The annual fee was also shown in the terms and conditions for the account.
The cards were used in December 2018  and January 2019 and Mr P received an account 
statement in January 2019 which showed  payments totalling £2,631.83 - to which the card 
fee of £160 was added. Mr P then complained to Virgin Money  and said that he couldnt 
afford the card fee. But the cooling-off period  in which  Mr P could withdraw from the 
agreement without the fee being applied  had ended. So Virgin  Money said that it wouldnt 
refund the fee. 
Mr P had received  benefits from the credit  card  including 15,000 air miles. And I dont 
consider that there was any requirement  in these circumstances for Virgin  Money to refund 
the annual fee to him. 
Mr P says that he cant afford the fee. But hed declared an annual  gross income of £52,000 
on his application  and the card had been used  to make payments totalling  £2,631.83. Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr P cant afford  the fee. But Virgin 
Money is required to respond  to any financial  difficulties that Mr P is experiencing positively 
and sympathetically. Virgin Money  has said that Mr P should contact its credit services  team  
if he wants to discuss affordability. So if he is experiencing financial difficulties and cant 
afford the fee (or the monthly  repayment required)  he should  contact  Virgin Money.
Ref: DRN55827152Im not persuaded that Virgin Money  has acted incorrectly  in connection with the annual fee 
for Mr Ps credit card. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances 
for me to require  it to refund the annual  fee to Mr P  or to take any other action in response 
to his complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5582715