K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc when  he tried to make 
various payments  from his accounts.
background
Mr R has two accounts with Santander. He has a standard current account and an Instant 
Plus Account. Mr R believed that the latter was a Savings account  but its a current  account.
On 28 June 2018 Mr R phoned a branch of Santander to make  a transfer of £1,070 from his 
current account to some family members. He thought the transaction  had been successful, 
but it wasnt. Santander had stopped it and needed to perform security checks  on it. It tried 
calling him to tell him about  this but didnt reach him. So it applied a temporary  block to his 
account.
The next day Mr R wanted  to make some  further  payments in a Santander branch. He found  
that his account  had been blocked and that the payment from the previous day hadnt been 
successful. Santander  told him what he needed to do to remove  the block. On the same  day, 
Mr R said he no longer  wanted to make  the original faster  payment  he wanted  to make 
payments for different  amounts instead.  He discussed making these payments by counter 
cheques. Santander told him that if he transferred the relevant amounts to his savings 
accounts there would  be no charge for issuing cheques from this account.
On 30 June 2018 Mr R went to a branch with identification. The block was removed  from his 
account and he confirmed that he wanted to make four payments by cheque.  Mr R 
transferred the money into his Instant Plus account and made  the payments by counter 
cheques. He was surprised when  he was charged  a fee of £40 and asked  for an explanation. 
He was told that as the payments had been  made from a current account the relevant fees 
had been applied. Mr R was very unhappy  about this as he believed his Instant Plus Account 
was a savings  account.
Mr R complained to Santander  on 30 June 2018  about the cheque charges and the poor 
service that he believed he had received. He said hed received conflicting  information from 
Santander about the payments and the block. Santander investigated the matter  and found 
that there  had been confusion during some of the phone calls but didnt think it was solely  
responsible for this. It said that Mr R had contributed to the confusion by being  inconsistent 
with the amount of the payments he wanted to make and who he wished to make them to. 
Because of this  it didnt offer any compensation nor did it refund the charges.
Mr R was unhappy with this as he felt that overall he had received poor service.  So the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  here is that Santander  shouldve followed Mr Rs instructions  as a 
customer, unless  there  were good reasons not to have. Santander did try to make  the first 
payment that he asked  it to, but it needed some extra information from Mr R before it made 
this. It tried calling Mr R immediately when the payment didnt go through,  which  I think was 
fair. It then applied a block  to his account,  which it was also entitled to do.
Ref: DRN50595802Mr R found out about  the block the next day. Given that Santander  had already told him that 
the payment he was trying to make  could take up to the end of that day, he learned of the 
block within this timeframe and had time to either  provide the information to allow the 
payment to go ahead, or make alternative  arrangements for this.
Mr R instead decided  to make the payments  by cheque. There are different processes for 
making payments  by cheque.  Counter cheques from a current account attract a £10 fee per 
cheque.  Issuing your own cheque from your current account is free.  Counter cheques  from 
a Savings account are free.  I think Santander gave  him clear information  about what hed 
need to do to make payments in this way and about what would happen  if he did this. Mr R 
appeared to understand  the instruction and the confusion arose because he believed that 
his Instant Plus Account  was a saving account  and so counter cheques would be free which 
is why he transferred the money.  
Santander confirmed  that it is not a savings account  and has never been. I accept that Mr R 
thought it was a saving  account but it would be unfair to hold Santander  solely responsible 
for his confusion.
But I think there has been some confusion on both sides about the payments and the 
surrounding circumstances.  Mr R has changed  the nature  of how he wanted to make  the 
payments, along  with the amounts and people he wanted to pay. Mr R is entitled  to do this, 
of course, but when  a customer keeps changing  their instructions its likely to cause a 
business some confusion,  as it did in this situation. 
But Santander did what it could to help Mr R to make the payments in the way he wanted, 
even after he changed his mind about  these. Although Santander cannot be held 
responsible for this, theyve acknowledged  that their communication and sometimes lack of, 
could have contributed to the confusion here and apologised. 
Mr R was transferring the money into what he believed was a savings account. On seeing 
that Mr R was transferring  money  from one current account to another  to make  counter 
cheque payments, I think it would have been reasonable for Santander staff to clarify why he 
was doing this. On the face of it, there  doesnt seem to be an obvious reason for a customer 
to do that here, especially  in a way that means theyll  be charged for a service that they 
could get for free in a different way.
 
Mr R says that it was only when he queried  why he had been charged  a fee, that the counter 
staff explained  that he was still paying from a current account and not as he believed from a 
savings account.   
The investigator asked  for further  information to understand whether Santander had tried to 
clarify the situation  with the cheques. Santander  provided information from the branch staff 
on the day, who said that they did explain the charges to Mr R, but he needed the cheques 
urgently so was happy to pay the charges.   Another customer service advisor at the time of 
the transaction also observed this person checking  if Mr R was aware  that there would be a 
charge. They heard  Mr R confirm that he wished to make  the payment. All of this supports a 
note from Santanders  internal systems  made on the day of the payments,  when  the branch 
called an internal department to clarify the situation.  
It is still unclear why Mr R would have continued  with the transaction  having been  told there 
would be a charge  other than he needed  to make the payments urgently. At the same  time, 
Ref: DRN50595803Santander have  provided detailed recollections  stating that he was aware of the charge. Its 
unfortunate they werent able to provide  the information sooner, but I still have  to take this 
into account. 
Santander and Mr R give different and conflicting reports of what  happened  at most of the 
key points of the various transactions.  There is no way that I can know exactly what  was 
said verbally so I have to rely on the information  that I do have.  Here, that suggests to me 
that its more likely than not, on balance, that Santander did tell Mr R about the charges the 
cheques would attract.
I also think that Mr R quite  possibly  caused  confusion by changing his instructions several 
times in terms of how much he wanted  to pay, to who and by what method. I dont think  
either party deliberately intended to cause confusion, but impartially here, I think thats what  
happened.
So on balance I believe that Mr R was given the correct information  regarding the charges 
for issuing  cheques.  If they had been  issued from a Savings account he is correct there 
would be no fee but they were not.  The  Instant Plus account was and had always  been a 
current account even  if Mr R had forgotten this. So Santander were  correct to charge a fee 
for the counter cheques.
If follows that I dont require Santander to reimburse him the £40 fee or pay any 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained my final decision is that I cannot uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Constantia Pennie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5059580