K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. He isnt happy that it hasnt 
dealt with a claim under  his music  insurance  policy.
background
Mr S had a number of items stolen from him, including his guitar which was worth about  
£9,000, in August 2018. RSA looked into the claim and as part of its investigation it wanted 
to interview Mr S in person.
It took Mr S a short while to report the theft to RSA and by the time its investigator made 
contact with him about the interview he had left the country due to a family bereavement. So 
Mr S asked for the interview  to take place by video link. But RSA wanted to wait until Mr S 
returned to the UK and to have the interview in person. 
So Mr S complained to this service. Our adjudicator  looked into things  for Mr S but didnt 
uphold his complaint. He didnt think that RSA had acted  unreasonably. It was entitled to 
make reasonable enquiries which included appointing an investigator and taking a statement 
from Mr S.
As Mr S didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and despite  my natural sympathy  for the difficult position Mr S has found  
himself, Im not upholding this complaint.  The issue for me to consider here is whether RSA 
are acting unreasonably  in asking to speak with Mr S in person  before  settling  his claim and I 
dont think it is. I know  this will disappoint Mr S but Id like to explain why.
I can understand how frustrating and inconvenient this is for Mr S. But it isnt unusual  for 
insurance companies to appoint loss adjusters or investigators when considering claims. I 
know Mr S has made insurance claims  before  when  it hasnt been necessary to interview 
him in person but every claim  is different. 
Unfortunately Mr S isnt able to get home right now so this makes it difficult for him and he, 
understandably, just wants  his claim met. But RSA is entitled to undertake a reasonable 
investigation into claims made by consumers.  Indeed, there is an expectancy that insurance  
companies do this generally  and in this instance  RSAs  investigator is undertaking 
reasonable enquiries in looking into Mr Ss claim. 
I know Mr S was due back in the UK before now and given the difficulties Mr S has faced in 
recent times  I can understand how frustrating this is for him. Indeed, I would expect RSA to 
look into compensating Mr S for the time he has been without payment if it settles the claim.
Mr S has questioned why the interview  cant take place during  a video call. But the 
investigator will want to go over the full details  of the robbery and claim details  and take a 
signed statement  of evidence which cant be done by video conference. And I know  this is 
Ref: DRN59821832inconvenient to Mr S due to his present circumstances. But Im sure he will be back  in the 
UK soon  and RSA is happy to look into the claim then which  seems fair.
Finally, Mr S has mentioned that he would like a representative or solicitor to represent him 
and although Im sure RSA wouldnt mind this, it would still need to interview him in person 
and gain a signed statement. 
So, although  RSA expected Mr S to be back in the UK by now so that it could finalise its 
investigation and things have been  complicated by Mr Ss understandable delay I dont think 
it has done anything  wrong. I say this as it hasnt rejected the claim and is happy to wait until 
Mr S is back  in the country in order to fully discuss the theft and gain a signed statement 
which seems reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5982183