K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc (M&SFS) didnt fully accept his 
claim under Section  75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect  of a holiday.
background
In the spring of 2018 Mr M booked an overseas holiday for his family,  with a company I will 
call T and paid with his credit card. The holiday was taken in August and was for 14 days.  Mr 
M has explained  that the hotel was far from satisfactory and has detailed  a number of its 
failings. After some days T agreed to move the family to another  hotel  at a cost of £1,494.41. 
He complained to the original hotel, Ts local representative and to T in the UK. 
In January 2019 he made a section  75 claim and listed the hotels faults.  He was asked for 
photographs and any other supporting evidence, but apart from a police report of a robbery 
from the hotel he was unable to supply  any further  documentary material.  M&SFS  decided to 
cover the additional  cost of the second  hotel. Mr M was unhappy and asked for a full refund 
plus £500 per member of the family and £750 for the stolen money.
He brought his complaint  to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He explained  that for claim under  section  75 to succeed  
it needs to be established that there  has been either  misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract. He reviewed  the various  complaints made  by Mr M and concluded there was 
insufficient evidence  to establish  a valid claim.  He set out the various  issues  in some  detail  
and I trust both parties will accept there is no need to repeat these in this decision.
Mr M didnt  agree and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
M&SFS has said it does not agree a full claim should be accepted under section 75, as there 
is not enough evidence to show the travel operator was in breach of contract or 
misrepresented the holiday  offer.
I agree  that the debtor-creditor- supplier  link is in place and the supplier in this case  is T. The 
question is whether there was either  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by T. The 
invoice shows that T agreed to provide flights and 14 nights  accommodation at the specified  
Ref: DRN53869382hotel. I havent  seen any brochure or online material from the time of booking which sets out 
details of the hotel and its facilities.
I have looked  at the latest details on Ts website, which may have changed,  but I cannot see 
that there  was any misrepresentation.  I note Mr M says he was told at the hotel it was only 
graded as a two star, but I can see it is currently  rated  as higher by T and more widely. 
The quality of hotels  can be subjective, however have noted that on arrival  the family  were 
offered multiple  rooms,  but none of these were  deemed to be of an acceptable  standard.  
They ended up being upgraded,  but Mr M has stated that this too wasnt  really acceptable. I 
have seen no photographs which support his claim and while I dont doubt his strength of 
feeling I cannot safely conclude that his claim should succeed without some additional 
evidence.
I have noted his other main areas of complaint about the food, the childrens facilities,  
access to the bar, the beach and the allegedly  racist  attitude  of the staff. Again I am lacking 
any supporting evidence to allow me to uphold his complaint apart from photos of the beach. 
I dont believe these  support his complaint  in any meaningful way.
In any event I dont  consider he would be entitled to a full refund as he and his family had 
use of the flights  and derived some benefit  of the initial  hotel. So if he had been able to 
supply sufficient evidence  I would only be able to suggest M&SFS pay him a partial sum.
M&SFS cannot be held responsible for the theft of money; that is a matter  for Mr M to claim 
from his insurance company. However,  I think M&SFS has been more than fair in covering 
the additional cost of the new hotel despite  the lack of evidence.
I can appreciate that Mr M and his family had a disappointing holiday,  but I hope  the 
replacement hotel was more to their liking.  So while I have sympathy with their situation I 
cannot reasonably  uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN53869383my final decision
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc has already made  an offer to pay £1,494.41 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should pay £1,494.41. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5386938