K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC, then trading as TSB, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Lloyds doesnt  have any of the paperwork which was produced  when this PPI sale took 
place. But this isnt that surprising given  how long ago this was. Businesses arent required 
to keep this information over such long time periods. And Mrs S doesnt  seem to have that 
strong a recollection  of the sale either. So in these circumstances  I need  to decide what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened  taking into account the available  evidence.
Lloyds says it cant now be certain  when or how the PPI was sold to Mrs S and how.  But its 
assumed it was the earliest date possible in 1992,  which was when Mrs S applied for her 
credit card. I also think that this is most likely  to have  been the case given the limited amount 
I know about the circumstances of this sale and, more generally, about Lloyds sales 
practices at around  this time. But in assessing this complaint  Ive borne in mind  that the sale 
could have taken  place at any time before 2000, which  is when Lloyds first have statements 
for Mrs Ss card account showing PPI premiums being charged.
Mrs S says she wasnt made aware  that the PPI was optional when the sale took place. But I 
need to bear in mind that memories of what one has been  told or not told tend to fade over 
such a long time. And from what we know about  how Lloyds sold PPI on credit cards  at 
around this time, I think its most likely that Mrs S would have needed to actively  choose to 
take PPI for it to be added  to her credit card account. I think she is also likely to have queried 
why PPI premiums were being  charged on her monthly credit  card statements if she hadnt 
wanted this cover. So, on the limited information  available to me, I think Mrs S actively 
decided to take PPI cover  knowing she had a choice. But I can understand why she may not 
remember this now.
Mrs S says she was sold the PPI in a meeting and that Lloyds recommended the policy to 
her. And Ive taken this to be the case, because this means that Lloyds needed to ensure  
that the insurance was suitable  for her. 
Ref: DRN59328232With so little information now available about the sale,  I cant know  how Lloyds did ensure  
that the policy was suitable for Mrs S. But from what I know  of her circumstances between 
the times  when this sale must have taken  place, I cant see any reason why the policy 
wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
Mrs S appears to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs S says she was eligible for sick pay from her employer. But this policy  would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay she might  have received if she couldnt work.  And it 
would have paid out for up to twelve months  on a successful  claim for an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. So I think Mrs S would still have valued the extra protection  
this policy gave  her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for her and, as the premiums  were 
paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
Mrs S says she wasnt given enough information about the costs  of the policy  by Lloyds. 
And I think its likely  that the information Lloyds provided wasnt as good as it could have 
been. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for Mrs S, I 
dont think that better  information would have changed her mind about  taking  it. I think  she 
would still have thought it gave her useful protection at an affordable  price.
So I dont  think that Mrs S has lost out by anything that Lloyds  may have done wrong when  
it sold her this policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5932823