K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Mr and Mrs P in 2009 
alongside a mortgage. The policy protected Mr P as a sole policy holder in the event he had 
an accident, was sick or unemployed.
Mr and Mrs P say they werent aware PPI had been  added to their mortgage  account. They 
say they had very good sick pay so didnt  need  it. They think they were  mis-sold the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about the sale of the policy.  Here  are 
my reasons:
I think Mr P was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the MPPI terms and 
conditions that applied.
I have been  able to see the mortgage application  form, an offer of loan document  and 
also read Mr and Mrs Ps recollections provided by their representatives.
I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr and Mrs P and Natwest  during the 
meeting in one of its branches in 2009.  Its completely understandable also that Mr and 
Mrs Ps recollections are not detailed as the sale took place a number of years  ago. And 
because of this and the sales documentation  that I have been able to see, I dont think 
the evidence is strong  enough  for me safely to say Natwest  didnt explain that PPI was 
an optional feature or that it added the insurance  without discussing it. I say this because 
I can see on the offer of loan form that there is a separate  section for insurances.  MPPI 
is described as an optional insurance. There is a box given to be ticked if Mr and Mrs P 
didnt want to accept  MPPI. And this box was left blank. So, because of this I think 
Natwest gave Mr and Mrs P a choice to have  PPI and I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint on this point.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Natwest provided  advice to Mr and Mrs P or 
not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional  responsibility to ensure the 
policy was suitable for Mr P as the policy holder. But on looking at the information 
provided and also taking into consideration of what I know  of Natwest  sales  during this 
time, I dont think advice was given.  Natwest still had to ensure  that it provided  
information to Mr and Mrs P in a clear, fair and not misleading way however,  so that they 
could make an informed  decision  on whether  they wanted the policy.
Ref: DRN53134422And based on the information Ive seen,  I cant be entirely  sure that Natwest  did provide 
clear information to Mr and Mrs P. That said, I am not sure they would have acted 
differently (that is, not taken out the policy) if they had been properly informed.
I say this after considering Mr Ps circumstances at the time of sale. Because,  although 
Mr P says he had 6 to 12 months  sick pay, the MPPI policy would have  paid out for 
longer than this if he was sick or made unemployed. It would have been in addition  to his 
sick pay. Having  the policy in place  would mean  Mr and Mrs P could use any other 
means they may have had to cover  other  expenses. I dont think their means are 
sufficient for me reasonably to say that they wouldnt have had at least some use for the 
policy.
Mr P was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits, such 
for someone that had a pre-existing medical condition.  It is unlikely  Mr and Mrs P needed 
better advice or information about  the policys exclusions  and limitations  and if they had 
received clear information on these terms I dont think  it would have put them off.
Finally, I havent seen enough  that would suggest to me that Natwest disclosed the costs 
of the policy  in a clear  way, but even  if it did, I dont think Mr and Mrs P would have done 
anything differently for the same  reasons  as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing 
to suggest it was unaffordable.  So overall,  I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs P would have 
made a different decision about  whether to take out PPI if better  information  had been 
provided.
In conclusion, although I know it will be a disappointment, I could not find a reason to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. So, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5313442