K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Hastings Insurance Services  Limited  provided the wrong premium 
amount on his renewal  invitation for his motor policy, which  then induced him to agree to 
renew his policy.
background
Mr B was insured with Hastings. As his policy year drew to a close, it sent him a renewal 
invitation in the usual  way. Unfortunately, the premium amount it said he paid for his policy  
was incorrect showing he paid a higher  figure than he actually had, making  the premium 
amount for the next year look far more attractive. The premium he had paid was £593.13.  
The renewal  invitation  said he had paid £675.43.  His renewal invitation quoted the premium 
of £564.77 for the following year.
Mr B said that on this basis, he didnt search  the market to see if he could find a more 
competitive quote  and he believes Hastings  misrepresented the matter and caused  him a 
loss of chance.
Hastings agreed  and apologised for its error  on the renewal invitation,  explaining it was a 
simple error and there was no intent of misrepresentation behind  it. It also assured him that 
its error didnt affect the premium it quoted for the following  year, that it remained correct 
based on its underwriting criteria and on Mr Bs insurance record.  As a means of 
compensation, it paid Mr B the difference between the figure it wrongly  quoted and the figure  
he had actually paid which  was £82.30.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think  Mr 
Bs complaint should be upheld, as Hastings  apologised for its error and paid compensation.
Mr B disagreed so his complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
My role and that of this service is to assess if the insurer, Hastings here, did anything wrong. 
If it did, my role is then to assess  whether it has put things  right.  If it hasnt, then I can require 
it does put things right and in what way. This service is not the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  is. So we cant tell insurers how to run their businesses, what to 
charge for the risks they are willing to cover, or indeed fine them if they get things wrong. 
Only the FCA can do that, not this service.
Mr B said his complaint  wasnt  about  compensation but he thought  in his complaint form, his 
premium should be returned for what seems to be a sort of fine in order to discourage 
Hastings from doing this again. However,  I consider that would be akin to a fine, as it has no 
reference to any loss Mr B may have suffered. Therefore, Ive no authority to impose such a 
fine in this manner  for the reasons explained above.  
Mr B cant  provide any evidence for any loss he may have suffered, as of course  he didnt 
search the  market at the time, given he was very pleased with the quote for the following 
year bearing  in mind  the difference in figures.  I can understand that, as it looked like Mr B 
Ref: DRN56457112paid £675.43 for the previous year and would now only pay £564.77 for the following year. 
Thats an apparent saving of £110.66,  which I agree  is very attractive. In fact, Mr B paid 
£593.13 so instead his premium was only reduced  by £28.36  instead  of £110.66.
Theres no mechanism to know now what the market would have quoted  Mr B at this time. 
So consequently, we will just never  know if this, in any event reduced premium, that 
Hastings quoted Mr B was indeed competitive. Mr B wrongly thinks  insurers somehow bench 
mark their quotes against their competitors for each renewal so this sort of information  
should be available.  However as the adjudicator explained, it really  isnt as simple as that, as 
each insurer rates different things differently and the rates  they quote can change daily.  So 
Im satisfied theres no mechanism to find this information out in any coherent  manner.
Im also satisfied that Hastings simply made a mistake in Mr Bs renewal invitation  and did 
not seek to misrepresent the issue to him in any way for its own gain. It was just a simple  
error.  
Therefore, in the absence of any evidence of any quantifiable loss to Mr B from him not 
searching the market  at renewal, theres  nothing more I can require Hastings to do to put 
things right as its acknowledged and apologised  for its mistake. Mr Bs renewal quote was in 
any event a saving  from the previous year, just not as big a saving as Mr B initially thought.
I also consider that it was right Hastings paid Mr B some compensation and I consider the 
amount it did pay him is reasonable.  
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5645711