K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  trading as Halifax  mis-sold them  the 
PPI. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI at a meeting with BoS and the policy  provided  cover 
for Mr W only Mrs W wasnt  covered  by the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs W have  said it wasnt made  clear  to them that the PPI was optional. 
Mr and Mrs W and BoS havent  been able to provide much  detail  about  what  was 
said in this meeting.  And there isnt much paperwork from the time of sale either. 
Thats understandable given the time that has passed. So Ive thought  carefully about 
what Mr and Mrs W and BoS have said. And Ive also used what  I know  about BoS 
sales processes to help me make my decision.  Having done  this, I dont have enough 
to say that its likely  BoS told Mr and Mrs W that they needed to buy a PPI policy to 
start a mortgage. I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt  have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant  
remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. For example Mr W wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  I havent seen any evidence  from the time 
of sale that shows  they were  told it provided life cover benefits only. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs W back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs W now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN50197262my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5019726