K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral)  declined  her claim for 
the removal of a wasp nest and cancelled her policy. 
background
At the end of August  2018, Mrs H discovered  wasps in her home.  She wished to claim on 
her Admiral  home  insurance  policy for their removal. Mrs Hs husband, Mr H, acted on her 
behalf throughout the claim and the subsequent complaint. 
Mr H called Admiral twice  on 29 August 2018.  A claim was submitted online the next day. A 
contractor instructed by Admiral then visited Mr and Mrs Hs home a few days  later. 
Mr H says Admirals  contractor asked them to remove their gas fire to enable access  to the 
chimney. Mr H thought this would  require an expert,  which would delay matters, so he chose 
to look for another contractor himself.  He says he chose Contractor B, who dealt with the 
wasp problem soon  after. Mr H explains he chose Contractor B as they were able to do the 
work at very short notice  and without having to remove the gas fire. 
After some investigation, Admiral declined  Mrs Hs claim. They said Mrs H had knowingly 
attempted to claim for an incident  which  she knew had occurred prior to the beginning of the 
cover, and that the policy excluded this. They  felt this claim,  along with concerns they had 
about an invoice  Mr H provided, meant Mrs H had breached the fraud condition of the policy.  
So they cancelled  it. 
Mrs H disagreed and brought her complaint to our service. She feels  her claim should be 
covered and the policy shouldnt have been cancelled. Mrs H would like the cost of the work 
refunded to her and the policy cancellation removed from any records.  She also feels  
Admirals customer  service has been poor. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but he didnt think  it should be upheld.  He thought 
Admiral had fairly declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy.  He 
also thought theyd acted in a fair and reasonable manner  when they cancelled  the policy.  
Mrs H was unhappy with this, so the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Before I explain my findings, Ill reiterate that the policy is in Mrs Hs name, but Mr H has 
represented her throughout. Mrs H remains responsible for the actions of anyone acting on 
her behalf,  including any information provided to the insurance company. 
Ref: DRN54144582the claim 
Ive considered what Admiral have  said about  declining Mrs Hs claim. The policy term 
theyve relied on states: 
We will not cover the following:
1.   Loss or damage arising from an emergency which  was known to you before  the start
date of this cover
Ive listened to the two calls Mr H had with Admiral on 29 August 2018. 
In the first call at 8:12am, Mr H asks I was just wondering whether wasps  are covered under 
the policy? The adviser replies oh right ok, youve got wasps at the property is it? Mr H 
confirms that theyre coming in through the chimney.  
The adviser looks up the cover and tells Mr H unfortunately that isnt something that we are 
able to cover  you for if you had the home emergency cover  on the policy, thats something 
theyre able to cover for you, the removal. But unfortunately there isnt any home  emergency  
cover on the policy. 
The adviser goes  on to say they can put Mr H through  to a team who can help him add 
home emergency cover. At this point, Mr H asks but this wouldnt be insured  anyway  would 
it? The adviser confirms  unfortunately no, it wouldnt be.
I think its clear  at the end of this call that the current wasp  infestation wasnt covered by the 
current policy, and wouldnt be covered if home  emergency cover was later added.  
In the second  call at 8:45am, a policy upgrade including home emergency cover is 
purchased. 
Taking into account all of the above, I believe Admiral were  fair and reasonable to decline 
the claim for the wasp  infestation.  
Mr H has said he thinks the policy upgrade shouldnt have been sold if Admiral knew the 
claim wouldnt have been covered.  But Mr H doesnt  disclose to the adviser  on the second 
call that he wanted  to upgrade in order to claim for an existing  loss. And I dont expect this 
adviser to have known  details  of the conversation Mr H had earlier that morning. The fact 
remains that future claims may have been  covered  under  the upgrade. So I dont think 
Admiral did something wrong here.  
the policy cancellation
Im not able to say whether the actions of Mrs H or Mr H constitute fraud  its not my role to 
do so. I am only able to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to cancel the 
policy the way they did. 
Ref: DRN54144583Under the section  titled Our Cancellation  Rights the policy  states: 
We may cancel cover   at any time  if you  behave in a manner that makes it 
inappropriate for us to continue  your insurance If you or anyone  acting for you makes  or 
supports a fraudulent claim against  us or deliberately  or recklessly provides us with false  
information ... your policy and all other  policies to which you are connected  will be 
cancelled or voided.
Further wording is also provided under  the section titled  General Conditions  to your Home  
Insurance Cover  - Fraud:  
If you or anyone acting  for you recklessly or deliberately misrepresents information at any 
time during the policy that would  impact either the terms and conditions or our ability  to offer 
cover itself, your policy  will be cancelled or voided. 
We will not pay a claim which is in any part fraudulent, false, exaggerated or if you or anyone 
acting for you makes a claim in a fraudulent or false way, or where we have been given a 
false statement, or any documents  which are false or stolen. Your  policy   will be cancelled  
or voided.
The policy states  Admiral  will cancel home emergency cover if:
Your associated home policy is cancelled
If any claim under this cover  shall be in any respect fraudulent
You behave in a manner  that makes it inappropriate for us to continue your insurance
Admiral have raised a number of discrepancies about the invoice Mr H submitted for 
Contractor Bs work. Theyve pointed out that the company name  is different in the invoice  
address and the logo/letterhead. 
Admiral also say theyve  been  unable to find a registered business  for the company  named 
in the letterhead. This company appears to have a website, which  Ive seen.  I agree  with 
Admiral that the phone number on that website doesnt  match  the one on the invoice. The 
website also doesnt  have an address listed, but an internet search of the address from the 
invoice comes up as belonging to another company with an entirely different name.   
Admiral have also pointed  out that the price  quoted  for wasp removal  on the website is one 
tenth of the invoice amount. And that there are two different prices listed on the invoice itself. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to have had 
concerns about  the invoice submitted. And I dont think these have been adequately 
addressed by Mr and Mrs H.  
 
But even if these discrepancies had been fully explained away,  I dont think  Admiral 
cancelled the policy unfairly. As Ive said above,  I think Mr H (on Mrs Hs behalf) attempted  
to claim for a wasp  infestation which he knew existed before  hed purchased the relevant 
cover, and for which  hed been  told he wouldnt be covered. In the circumstances and 
considering the policy  wording, I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to invoke their 
fraud term and cancel the policy.  
Ref: DRN54144584Ive carefully considered  Mr Hs point  that the service they received from Admiral was poor.  I 
appreciate a claim investigation  will take time, but in the circumstances I consider it was 
reasonable for Admiral to conduct one, given the concerns they had with the invoice. Having 
taken into account  both the time it took Admiral to deal with the claim as well as the way the 
claim was handled  and the customer service  provided throughout, I dont consider 
compensation is due in this case.   
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5414458