K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently, Mr and Mrs F held with 
Santander UK Plc. Theyre  unhappy  with the way Santander treated their income and credit 
commitments when  they asked to borrow more money in 2018 to finance a building project. 
Santander turned them  down and theyve since re-mortgaged elsewhere to obtain the 
money they wanted, but are seeking compensation for the inconvenience Santander put 
them through. They also mention (without expressly  saying they should be compensated for 
it) that their building  project is now over budget by about £12,000+VAT.  
background
Mr and Mrs F have  complained previously about  how Santander has handled requests for 
more borrowing in the past.  One of those complaints  came  to us in 2017 and wasnt upheld.  
I mention that solely for context, as Mr and Mrs F have  alluded to it in their submissions. To 
be clear,  Im not revisiting  the earlier complaint in any way. My decision here is solely about 
the 2018 application.
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented.  No 
discourtesy is intended by that and if I dont  mention  something,  it wont be because  Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  But I assure 
both parties Ive read everything theyve said and provided.
Mr and Mrs F made the application in August 2018 to fund an extension to their home.  
Santander had two main areas of concern; Mr Fs income from a second job and the extent 
to which  their existing credit card debt was coming  down.  After considering the information  
Mr and Mrs F provided on these, Santander  decided in September  2018 that it wasnt 
prepared to lend all that they needed for the extension.
Mr and Mrs F obtained a new mortgage with a different lender, and repaid the Santander 
mortgage altogether.  Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded Santander had done anything wrong 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs F asked  for their complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Our rules require us to assess  what both parties have said and provided, and then decide 
what we think is fair. Were  impartial between  businesses and consumers and we dont take 
directions from either side on how we investigate complaints. 
In reviewing a complaint,  I consider  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  Here, thats included recordings of the 
phone conversations Santander held with Mr F during August and September  2018. 
Ive considered the assessment Mr Fs second  income, and the evidence Santander asked 
for in respect of their credit card debt. Having done  so, Ive some  disappointing news for 
Mr and Mrs F because, like the adjudicator, I dont think Santander has done anything wrong 
either.
Ref: DRN57337702The starting point  here is that lenders have a regulatory duty to lend responsibly by making 
sure a proposed  loan is affordable. How they go about doing  that is a matter for the lenders 
own commercial judgement. Its not my place to second  guess  that judgement. No one likes 
to think theres any reason for a lender  to turn them  down for credit. But borrowing money 
isnt a right or an entitlement for anyone.
Mr and Mrs F werent entitled to have  their mortgage increased; they were entitled to have 
their request  considered fairly in accordance with Santanders lending  criteria. In my view,  
thats the crux of this complaint, and having  looked very hard at what both parties  have said, 
Im not persuaded Santander  failed  to do that.
I understand fully that Mr and Mrs F think differently but its important to remember that 
Santander was being asked to lend more money.  In that context, it was up to Santanders 
commercial judgement to decide. Lenders criteria do change  periodically, not least to 
accommodate changes  in the economic climate and regulatory  framework from time to time.  
Thats why the criteria  a bank uses when it grants a mortgage dont become part of the 
contract for that loan, but sit outside  it.
However unwelcome Mr and Mrs F find Santanders lending  criteria (and its application of 
the criteria to them) they werent unfair , and thats  the test I have to apply. What would be 
unfair is if I were to impose someone  elses (i.e. Mr and Mrs Fs) commercial judgement on 
Santander in place of its own by telling  it that it was wrong and should have reached a 
different lending decision.
Im aware a different lender has lent Mr and Mrs F the money  they wanted, but that doesnt 
mean Santanders decision was flawed, as Mr and Mrs F seem to think. It just means that 
two different lenders have different lending criteria; thats perfectly normal in a competitive 
market.
Mr and Mrs F dont  have  to accept my decision. If they dont, it wont be binding on them,  
and subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, their right to take 
legal action against the bank wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of their 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5733770