K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the early repayment charge (ERC) HSBC UK Bank  Plc trading as 
First Direct  charged him when he redeemed his mortgage.
 
background
Mr G has had a mortgage with First Direct  for some years. It was an interest  only offset 
mortgage, and as well as having  a linked offset  account, it also allowed for overpayments 
and drawdowns.  
Mr G had paid down  the mortgage  balance  by 2017,  but in late 2017 he drew down against 
the overpayments, increasing the mortgage  balance. However, he still had more  than the 
whole mortgage  balance saved with First Direct so  once the right savings account  was 
linked to the mortgage  didnt pay any interest.
In January 2018 Mr G contacted First Direct  and took a new two year fixed  interest rate. First 
Direct did not give Mr G any advice about the new rate. 
In March 2018, Mr G redeemed the mortgage in full and closed the account.  First Direct 
charged him just over £10,000 in ERC  3% of the loan amount.
Mr G complained. He said he wasnt told about the ERC in the call when he took out the new 
rate, just two months earlier. He said First Direct should have told him  because  it was an 
onerous term of the agreement. And, he said, the rules of mortgage regulation said First 
Direct were only entitled to charge  as an ERC  a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs  of 
ending his mortgage early. Mr G said there was no cost to First Direct,  because the loan 
amount was fully offset; because if First Direct  had hedged against  his mortgage on the 
wholesale markets, they would have made a profit, not a loss; because  the 3% charge was 
excessive when base  rates  are so low; and because the ERC  was more than the interest 
First Direct  could  have earned during the fixed rate period.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  this complaint, and so Mr G asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G believes  that the ERC  is unfair because it is not an accurate reflection of First Directs 
actual loss in him repaying the mortgage. Mr G has set out very clearly  why he believes that, 
and he evidently  has knowledge of financial services  and the markets  which  has allowed him 
to make the calculations he has. Ive very carefully  considered what  he has to say. But I 
dont think his calculations  are actually relevant to whether hes been  treated fairly in this 
case. I say that because  theyre based solely on the loss  or, as he believes, the profit   to 
First Direct  of Mr G himself ending his own mortgage early. But thats  not the basis  on which  
First Direct  calculated  the ERC.
In very simple terms, when  a lender offers  a fixed rate, both the lender and borrower are tied 
in to the fixed rate for the duration  of the fixed term. Theres a cost to the lender in raising the 
funds to lend,  which it recovers in interest payments.  If the product ends early, theres a risk 
Ref: DRN56845492the lender wont  recover its costs.  So theres  a clause in the mortgage agreement  which  
allows the borrower to exit the mortgage  early  in return for paying  an ERC.
The rules  of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed  as a cash value,  and must  be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs  resulting  from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can 
choose how it calculates an ERC,  and  importantly  can calculate the same level of ERC 
across a group of mortgages of similar  type,  rather than for individual  loans  just as in 
practice funds are raised to lend in bulk, not individually.
That means that First Direct  is entitled to set an ERC  based  not on the actual cost to it of 
Mr G ending his individual  mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs  of 
early termination of a group of mortgages of similar  type. 
In practice, it cant be known whether an individual borrower will or will not end their fixed  
rate early, and if so when. So a lender cant estimate in advance the costs of ending  the 
particular mortgage  early. But the lender can estimate how many borrowers, on average, will 
do so  and apply those costs across  a group of mortgages. The price  of the mortgage, both 
the interest rate and the ERC,  are set at a level that allows the lender to recover its costs.
First Direct  has sent us information  about how its pre-estimate of loss on mortgages of the 
type Mr G held was calculated. Its done  so in confidence.  I know  Mr G isnt happy  with this. 
Hes argued that its near impossible for him to challenge or accept the ERC is fair without 
having details  of the calculations. He believes its been withheld because  it is fabricated or 
obfuscated. I do understand  his frustration. But our rules allow  either party to a complaint to 
submit evidence in confidence. Its then for us to decide if its fair to rely on it when deciding 
the outcome.  First Direct  has given us detailed information about how it funds its mortgages, 
how its business is organised, and what its various  costs are. That information is 
commercially sensitive  and confidential. But its also material  and highly relevant to this 
complaint. So Im satisfied  that its appropriate for me to receive  it in confidence.  
In summary,  the information shows that theres  a cost to First Direct in raising the funds it 
lends, and in carrying out the activities around lending. That cost has to be recouped  through  
the lending  and in particular the interest received over time. First Direct  allocates that cost 
across its mortgages in the expectation  that a certain proportion  will end before the fixed rate 
period, and the cost allocated to those  is estimated  to reflect the losses to First Direct from 
the interest it will no longer receive  from those mortgages.
I take Mr Gs point  that in his specific case First Direct wasnt  receiving any income at all 
from his mortgage   because the entire  balance was offset  and so no interest was being 
charged. But the ERC he paid isnt designed  to reflect  the losses   if any  on his own 
mortgage. Rather, its designed to reflect a share of the total losses  First Direct estimated, 
when it set the ERC, that it would incur  if the anticipated number of mortgages ended  early. 
This is a reasonable method of setting an ERC. Its in line with the regulators rules, which  
allow an estimate to be used, and allow that estimate to be set across a portfolio of 
mortgages rather than on an individual basis. Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage 
industry and from other complaints that First Directs methodology is broadly in line with that 
of the wider industry. I dont think its required, or practical, for ERCs to be calculated 
individually in every  mortgage, and so the portfolio approach is a reasonable one to take.  I 
therefore think the ERC itself was fair, and fairly charged. 
Ref: DRN56845493Mr G also says that the ERC is a penalty. I dont  agree about that. A penalty has a specific 
meaning  a sum charged if a contract  is broken. An ERC isnt a penalty, because  exiting 
the mortgage early  isnt a breach of contract. Its something specifically allowed for in the 
contract  at the price set out. 
Mr G says that the ERC wasnt drawn to his attention in the call in which  he took out the 
fixed rate, in January 2018. First Direct didnt give any advice  in that call. It implemented the 
rate Mr G had selected himself.
Before the rate was actually applied to Mr Gs mortgage, First Direct sent him a new product 
offer. The offer included a form for Mr G to sign and return  confirming that he understood the 
product and wanted to go ahead. He signed  and returned the form. Mr G told First Direct he 
returned the form without reading the offer. And he asked not to be sent a redemption  
statement either  he told First Direct just to take the money from his offset savings account 
to close the mortgage without checking how much that would cost. I dont think  it would be 
fair to hold First Direct responsible for Mr G, in both cases, deciding to go ahead without 
checking the paperwork first.
The product  offer itself was in the format required by the regulators rules. It set out the way 
an ERC would  be calculated, and the maximum amount it could be, in the way the rules 
require. By setting it out in that way, and sending the offer to Mr G for him to read, sign and 
return  and only starting the rate once  hed done  so  I think  First Direct did enough to draw 
it to his attention  before  he agreed to be bound by it.
In summary,  therefore I dont think First Direct has done anything wrong in this case.  It gave 
Mr G a product he asked for. It didnt give him advice, but set out the information he needed 
to make up his own mind in a clear, fair and not misleading way. When Mr G decided he 
didnt want the mortgage anymore, First Direct charged an ERC as set out in the mortgage 
terms, and which was calculated in a fair way. It was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. In all 
the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5684549