K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the short  term loans he took out with Casheuronet UK LLC trading as 
QuickQuid. Mr B says that QuickQuid  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. QuickQuid disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion.  The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings is attached and forms 
part of this final decision. 
QuickQuid, and Mr B, received my provisional  decision. Mr B didnt have anything to add.
QuickQuid, didnt agree with my provisional  decision. It said that:
Mr B repaid loan 4 early, and loan 5 was for a lower amount 
the loans were to be repaid over multiple periods. And looked at over this timeframe 
Mr B would have enough  spare income to comfortably make the repayments
Mr B agreed that he needed to save when making the two smaller repayments in 
order to make the final larger one 
it provided information on its lending process
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did consider the information QuickQuid had provided about the lending process in my 
provisional decision. QuickQuid hasnt provided  any new information about this and so my 
findings on this issue remain as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
The crux of QuickQuids response to my provisional  decision  was that it thought  Mr B 
shouldve been  able to put money  aside on the earlier, lower, loan repayments  so he could 
make the final higher  repayment. He should  have been able to do this for all of his loans. 
But, as I said in my earlier  decision,  it would be reasonable for QuickQuid to have assumed 
that Mr B was putting money aside in this way in the earlier lending. But I dont think  this was 
the case when  Mr B continued  to borrow. I think its more likely  for the later loans, that is 
loans 4 and 5, that he hadnt been  able to do this. And he was borrowing again to cover the 
gap repaying  the loans  had left in his finances.
And as I said before  the amount he borrowed on loans 4 and 5 was very high.  The highest 
repayments were over half of Mr Bs declared income. This is a large amount to lend. And I 
think, given what  QuickQuid knew about Mr B, that it shouldve  been aware that it was likely 
he would  struggle to repay these loans.  
Taking all of this into consideration Ive reached  the same conclusions I reached before, 
largely for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN53661322what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr B, QuickQuid should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loans 4 and 5; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement*; and
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit  file about  these loans;
If Mr B still owes QuickQuid any of the principal  balance he borrowed on his final loan 
QuickQuid should  remove all the interest  and charges applied.  QuickQuid should then re-
work the account  as if all payments made by Mr B went to towards  the principal. But 
importantly, QuickQuid needs to make  sure that Mr B doesnt repay more than the principal  
amount borrowed.  
If after doing this Mr B hasnt repaid the principal he borrowed, QuickQuid can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr B has already paid enough to repay the 
principal, then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple* interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement. 
And if QuickQuid no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt,  then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr B.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Casheuronet UK LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53661323extract from my provisional decision
Mr B took out five loans between  December 2016 and June 2017.  All of these loans were repayable  
over three  months. There were two smaller repayments  then a larger one. Some of the information 
QuickQuid has given us is shown in the table below. 
loan number date started principal term (days) date endedestimated 
disposable 
income
1 09/12/2016 £150 52 27/02/2017 £316.80
2 05/03/2017 £400 39 11/03/2017 £982.74
3 05/04/2017 £400 44 08/04/2017 £1,108.56
4 10/05/2017 £750 44 19/05/2017 £1,107.07
5 11/06/2017 £650 40 outstanding £1,000.35
QuickQuid has looked at Mr Bs complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. It said that it did 
appropriate checks for all of the loans. And these checks showed that the lending was affordable 
based on Mr Bs disposable income. QuickQuid said that its records showed  that Mr B wasnt 
dependent on short term lending and he didnt  notify it of any financial hardship. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint  and recommended that QuickQuid refund the 
interest and charges that he paid on loans 1, 4 and 5. QuickQuid didnt agree  with this 
recommendation and so the case  has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Having reviewed the 
evidence I have available  I think QuickQuid was wrong to have given  Mr B loans 4 and 5. Ill explain 
why.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Mr B and QuickQuid said.  He thought Mr Bs complaint should 
be partially upheld. He thought that QuickQuid had made proportionate checks before  approving loan 
1. He didnt think that it had made proportionate checks before approving  loans 2 to 5. 
Mr B hasnt been able to provide any further information about  his financial circumstances. But she 
thought that the information  QuickQuid had shouldve led to it concluding that loans 1, 4 and 5 werent 
affordable. 
QuickQuid didnt comment  on our adjudicators findings about the proportionality of its checks  or the 
affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to consider. It responded  to our 
adjudication saying:
 We regret to inform you that we cannot agree to FOS recommendations.  Please note that in 
CashEuroNet UKs initial response  to FOS we provided  detailed information indicating why the loans  
were responsibly lent to Mr B. I have now attached  the entire lending process  including all the checks 
that we perform prior to lending, the screenshots of customer  applications  as well as the sample  
acknowledgement from the contract that customers have to check  when their repayment amount is 
greater than their estimated disposable income. 
Ref: DRN53661324QuickQuid first mentioned  this argument in its business  submissions  to us in which  it said:
 We started implementing changes to the affordability assessment in June 2014 and all the 
changes were  completed by 28 Feb 2015. Starting 1 March 2015,  before Mr B borrowed these  loans, 
QuickQuid had implemented an affordability review that is consistent  with the FCA Handbook and that 
was in place at the time we received authorisation by the FCA. We confirm that this assessment was 
conducted properly  and individually  for each loan. 
It provided further detail about the checks it had made  when it approved  loans from 2015 onwards in 
a document called CEU Lending Criteria and Proportional Checks and this response didnt change  
our adjudicators opinion.
This service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic argument directly  and through  earlier final 
decisions. So I am not going  to expand on this point any further here, though I have considered  it 
alongside everything else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in how 
complaints are to be dealt  with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular  DISP 
1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling should  
 ensure that lessons  learned  as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future  complaint handling, for example by:
(1) relaying a determination  by the Ombudsman to the individuals  in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman  concerning complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals 
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance  produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals  dealing with complaints in the 
respondent. 
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mr Bs complaint  and what  both parties have said about  this.
The FCA was the regulator  at the time Mr B borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind  the rules 
and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with circumstance. (I am not 
quoting the specific regulations here because, as before, I would expect QuickQuid to be conversant 
with these  through previous  ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, which  set these  out 
in detail.) 
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics  of Mr Bs complaint. 
QuickQuid says: 
it recorded Mr Bs monthly income  as £1,400 before  approving  all of the loans 
it recorded his monthly expenditure as around £1,200 before approving loan 1 and just under 
£350 for the remainder  of the lending  
it validated the information it obtained using credit reference agency data
Ref: DRN53661325it used  the information it had gained from the credit  reports to adjust the amounts Mr B had 
provided to calculate  what it called his estimated disposable income  over the term of the 
loans (EDI) which is shown  on my table  above
why I think QuickQuids checks  were proportionate  for loan 1
For loan 1 Mr B needed  to make three repayments, the highest was £166. This was due 52 days  after 
taking the loan.  Mr B needed to repay just over £180 in total. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr B provided  when he completed his loan applications. As Ive 
outlined above this shows that Mr B said he had a monthly  disposable income  of £200. QuickQuid 
has calculated that he had an EDI over the loan period  of more than £300.    
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely QuickQuid was made  aware  of any financial 
problems Mr B mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate his 
circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to rely on the information it obtained  
for this first loan.
And I dont think its unreasonable for QuickQuid to think it was likely Mr B would be able to repay  the 
loan from the information  it received. I think this was a borderline lending decision as he wouldnt  
have much left over. But on balance, and particularly given that Mr B would likely be paid at least 
twice between receiving  the funds and making all of the repayments,  I think  he would have enough. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment  QuickQuid did for loan 1 was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for loan 1 was reasonable.  And Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint about this loan. 
why I dont think QuickQuids checks were proportionate for loans  2 to 5
Ive carefully thought about  what  QuickQuid and Mr B have provided and what both sides have said. 
Loan 2 was started a very short time after loan 1 was repaid, and the amount Mr B borrowed was 
much higher at £400.  Hed had some problems repaying loan 1, and going forward Mr B continued to 
borrow increasing amounts. For example QuickQuid approved £750 for loan 4. The highest 
repayment Mr B needed  to make to this loan was just under £850, and he needed  to repay  just over 
£1,000 in total.   
So I think, given the amounts borrowed over this short period  of time,  QuickQuid shouldve realised 
that Mr B may have some  longer term financial  problems  and he wasnt  just using the loans to help 
with a temporary cash flow problem. QuickQuid shouldve  also become  concerned about whether it 
knew enough  about Mr Bs true financial  situation.
So I think that before approving loan 2 it wouldve been proportionate to find out about Mr Bs normal 
monthly living costs  and regular  financial  commitments including any existing  short-term  lending. 
And I think that before approving loan 3, and going forwards, QuickQuid needed  to fully review his 
financial circumstances.  And it needed  to verify this information as far as it was able, to make sure 
Mr B was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
Although I havent seen  the full details of all of QuickQuids credit checks, it has provided  me with its 
estimate of Mr Bs disposable income. This is lower than deducting Mr Bs declared expenditure  from 
his declared  income  for loan 1 only. I dont know exactly how QuickQuid calculated  Mr Bs EDI  it 
has said that credit checks are one relevant factor. But because I dont know how QuickQuid actually 
worked out the EDI, and it doesnt  seem  to have changed Mr Bs declared disposable income for most 
of the lending, I cant  say this reflects a proportionate check.  
Ref: DRN53661326QuickQuid doesnt seem to have fully reviewed Mr Bs finances and seems to have in the main, relied  
on the information Mr B provided without verification. So I need to think  about  what  its likely 
proportionate checks wouldve shown if QuickQuid had carried out a full review.
what I think proportionate checks would most likely  have  shown for loans 2 to 5
Mr B hasnt provided any further information about his circumstances. So I cant say what QuickQuid 
wouldve seen if it had made proportionate checks. And whilst the repayments for loans 2 and 3 are 
higher, they dont look to be unaffordable, given the information Mr B provided. So Im not intending  to 
uphold his complaint about loans  2 and 3. 
But the amounts QuickQuid approved for loans 4 and 5 were  a substantial  increase on the earlier 
loans. And whilst I take on board that Mr B would likely  be paid twice (or more if he was paid weekly) 
over the loan repayment period, I think the amounts he borrowed  are very high compared  to his 
income. 
For example the highest  repayment for loan 4 was almost two thirds of Mr Bs monthly  income, and 
the total he would need to repay  is almost  three quarters  of his monthly  pay. Even given the 
uncertainty over his outgoings I think this is too much, and is in itself and indicator of financial 
problems. So I think QuickQuid was wrong to approve these loans  and Im intending to uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint about loans 4 and 5.
Ref: DRN5366132