K820x#14complaint
Mr S says that Financial  Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr S nor FICL  sent any new information for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mr S says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out on a store card in 1997.
Ref: DRN58864602The policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mr S owed  on his store card. The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance  on the card each month if Mr S couldnt  work because  he had an 
accident, was unwell or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr S case.
I currently intend to not uphold  Mr S complaint. Ill explain my reasoning below.
FICL had to make  it clear to Mr S that the policy was optional and get his consent  before PPI could  be 
applied to the account. The policy was taken out in store. I dont know what  happened during  the sale 
so Ive looked  at the paperwork available to help me decide  whats likely to have happened.
Ive been given a copy of the application form that Mr S completed when he took out the card and this 
includes a section for PPI. The box opting for the policy has been ticked. And Mr S has signed the 
form, so I think its likely  to reflect what he wanted. So on balance  I think its likely that FICL  would 
have asked Mr S for his agreement to add the policy to his account and he chose to take it knowing 
he didnt have  to. Although its understandable  that he no longer remembers this.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy  to Mr S and I think thats likely  to be right. So it didnt 
have to check  if the policy  was right for him. But FICL did need to make sure it gave Mr S clear  
enough information about the policy  to enable  him to decide for himself if he should  take the policy.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
even if FICL  had given him better or clearer information, I dont think  it would have  made  a difference. 
I still think he would have taken out the policy. I say this because Mr S was eligible for the policy and 
he wasnt affected  by any of the main  limitations to the cover.
Ms S says he had a medical condition  at the time of sale. He appears to have had this condition  since 
1984 and based on what hes told us, this condition appears to have  been under  control at the time of 
sale. So I think he wouldve thought the likelihood of having to take an extended period of time of work 
as a result of this condition wouldve been  slim. I dont  think he wouldve  expected to have to make a 
claim for this condition, and dont think clearer  information about  the policy  wouldve affected his 
decision to take it out.
Mr S says he was entitled  to statutory sick pay, and couldve relied on friends and family to help make  
his repayments. But the PPI would have paid out until he was able to return to work, or until the 
outstanding balance was cleared  whichever came first. And the policy would  cover the same term if 
he was to lose his job. So I think he couldve found the policy useful  notwithstanding  any 
employment benefits he may have been entitled to. And having the policy meant he wouldnt have to 
rely on his friends and family, whose  ability  to help would depend on their own circumstances at any 
given time. So I think he wouldve found the policy useful.
Overall, when taking into account everything Ive seen and been told, I dont think  Mr S has
lost out as a result of anything  FICL may have done wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold  Mr S complaint. But Ill look at anything else 
anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before  5 July 2019.
Ref: DRN58864603Unless that information changes  my mind, my final decision is likely  to be along the lines Ive 
mentioned above.
Ref: DRN5886460