K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly rejected his 
home insurance claim.
background
Mr P has a property abroad and in 2017  there was a storm in the locality.  Mr P made an 
insurance claim for damage  he said was caused  by the storm. RSA appointed loss adjusters 
to inspect Mr Ps property and they submitted a report  to RSA. In summary, the issue in 
dispute is that Mr P says the storm caused damage  to the paintwork  and render to the sea-
facing side of his property. RSAs loss adjuster said that the damage wasnt  consistent with 
storm damage but more  akin to wear and tear. And it pointed out that Mr Ps neighbours 
property (render and paintwork) wasnt affected.
Mr P was unhappy and showed that his property had had maintenance work in 2013  
consisting of repairs to the render  and re-painting. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter but didnt think RSA had treated Mr P 
unfairly. He explained our usual approach was to consider three  questions;
Was there a storm?
oThis wasnt  in dispute
Is the nature of the damage claimed consistent with storm damage?
oHere the investigator  said we rely on expert evidence and the loss adjusters 
was the only evidence available. And this expert evidence  concluded  that 
wear and tear was the issue and it was highlighted by the storm.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
oNot reached because the damage claimed  wasnt consistent with storm 
damage.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator. He said the investigators opinion was suggestive that 
the maintenance work in 2013 wasnt done  properly  and professionally,  which  is highly 
speculative. And the maintenance work should  have  lasted much longer than it did and that 
was because of the storm. Mr P says the only logical and fair conclusion  was that the storm 
caused the damage. He also said if it was being  suggested that he should have provided his 
own expert evidence  that should have been said back in 2017. He feels  RSA are abusing its 
superior skills to deny  a rightful claim.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to reach  a different outcome. In particular he said Mr P 
had enquired about other loss adjusters he could instruct and he knew RSA was willing  to 
consider any further information from Mr P. Matters of further evidence from Mr P were 
raised with him on a number of occasions  in early 2018 too. So the investigator was 
persuaded that Mr P had been  given information about what further  evidence  he could 
provide to show the incident was a one off incident rather than it being  wear and tear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50384182The issue  in this case is whether the damage  claimed is a result  of a storm. If the damage 
wasnt a result of a storm, and is more  likely  to be the result of wear and tear, then it isnt 
covered.
The investigator outlined  our usual approach to these types of cases being;
1.Was there a storm?
2.Is the nature of the damage claimed consistent with storm damage?
3.Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The fact of a storm isnt in issue rather its the second, and potentially  third,  question  that is 
at the heart of the claim.
The evidence in the case largely  comes  from RSAs loss adjuster who inspected Mr Ps 
property, although  Im mindful also of the information that Mr P has sent too. An inspection  of 
Mr Ps property  took place  a few weeks after the storm, which  in some respects was 
unavoidable given the property is abroad and there had to be a mutually  agreeable time.  The 
engineers outcome, although explained  in more detail in the report, was that the external 
face of the property showed an aged plaster  with deterioration. And there werent typical  
marks associated with a storm. 
RSA said a storm wouldnt  cause  damage  to plaster  and paintwork unless there were 
underlying issues  such as deterioration. And if the storm was of such  strength  to cause the 
sort of damage Mr P claims then it would expect  to see other similar storm related damage 
to neighbouring properties.
I do place weight on the engineers professional  evidence that the damage isnt consistent  
with a storm. Mr Ps photographs of damage  show random and inconsistent damage to 
paintwork and plaster across the sea-facing elevation, and at different heights. The 
photographs have  no meta data and so it cant be determined  when the photos  were 
actually taken. But even  accepting them as taken after the event Im more  persuaded by the 
engineers professional opinion. The damage  looks very much like deterioration  that needs 
maintenance. No evidence  has been  put forward that directly challenges the engineer, and 
neither is it apparent that other properties  in the immediate vicinity  were affected in a similar 
way.
I appreciate Mr P feels he hasnt been  treated fairly  by RSA but RSA has said its willing  to 
review other evidence that Mr P can provide. I am satisfied  Mr P was made aware  of this 
early on in the claim. But taking into account  all the information  Ive seen I am persuaded 
that its more likely than not Mr Ps property was suffering deterioration. And its this that has 
led to the damage  rather than the storm. So Im satisfied RSAs  decision about the render 
and paintwork is fair. Should Mr P obtain  new evidence about  the cause of the damage  he 
can pass that to RSA.
Ref: DRN50384183my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5038418