K822xcomplaint
Mr H is complaining about Connells Limited  because he says he was mis-sold  various  
insurances alongside his mortgage  that he didnt need. He was also aggrieved that he 
wasnt able to claim on his unemployment  insurance.
background
In 2006/2007, Mr H arranged a new repayment mortgage of £142,000 for a term of 35 years  
through a broker,  Sharman Quinney,  part of Connells. At the same time he took a number of 
insurance policies:
buildings and contents insurance;
accident sickness and unemployment  (ASU) insurance, providing cover of £860 per 
month after a 60-day  waiting period at a cost of £54.18 per month;
level term life insurance with Legal and General  providing cover of £142,000 for 35 
years at a cost of £18.67 per month;  and
level term critical illness insurance  with Legal and General providing cover of 
£142,000 for 35 years  at a cost of £58.95  per month.
Mr H says he cancelled the life, critical illness and ASU policies in 2009 because  he could no 
longer afford them after his employer moved him onto a zero-hours contract.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
partly upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision. Mr H has since told us 
he wishes to accept  my provisional  decision.  Connells told us it had nothing  to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had anything  to add to 
my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. 
If Mr H accepts my decision, Connells Limited  must pay him compensation calculated  using 
the method set out in my provisional  decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55595992extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
If Mr H remains  concerned  the insurer  didnt  pay out on his ASU policy  after his employer changed his 
contract, thats something hed need to pursue in a separate complaint against the insurer. But from 
what Ive seen, the insurance was intended to cover involuntary unemployment.  I appreciate moving 
to a zero-hours contract  was a significant change to his circumstances,  but it doesnt appear he was 
actually made  redundant and thats probably  the reason the insurance didnt pay.
Turning to the issue  of how the policies were sold, Ive taken account of what  Mr H has told us about 
what happened. But on their own and without  additional supporting evidence, I dont think his 
comments are enough  for me to say the policies were mis-sold. I must  also take account of the 
documentation from the time, including  the mortgage offer dated 20 December 2006, section 9 of 
which said:
9. Insurance
Insurance you must take out through The Royal Bank of Scotland  plc or Sharman Quinney
None
In most  circumstances, lenders require borrowers to have buildings insurance. And I think its difficult 
to argue with the recommendation of contents insurance alongside that. But I think  the mortgage  offer 
shows these insurances didnt have to be taken with either the lender or the broker.
In terms of the life, critical illness, and ASU policies,  I dont think  the contents of the offer support any 
suggestion Mr H was told he had to take the policies to get his mortgage.  But this notwithstanding, he 
received advice and the adviser had a responsibility to make sure any policies recommended were 
suitable for his circumstances and needs.
The ASU policy was designed to provide a monthly income to help Mr H meet his monthly mortgage 
payment and other commitments if he couldnt work  due to ill-health or unemployment. In view of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was reasonable to recommend he have  this type of cover.  I 
understand it didnt pay out when his contract was changed, but the policy wasnt designed to cover 
all possible situations and the adviser  wouldnt  have known what would happen several  months later 
at the time it was sold.
Mr Hs mortgage represented a significant financial commitment and I also think it was reasonable to 
recommend he have  cover  in place so it could be repaid if he died or became seriously ill. I think its 
difficult to argue that he (or anyone  he left behind if hed died) wouldnt have benefitted  from a 
significant lump sum in these circumstances. I note Mr H says he changed  jobs shortly after the 
mortgage started and his new employer  provided life cover.  But its not clear whether the adviser 
knew about this upcoming change  at the time. In any event, that cover would  only remain  in place  
while he stayed in the same job.
While I think  it was reasonable to recommend life and critical illness cover for Mr H, the sales 
documentation indicates the cover was purely recommended for mortgage protection. Given  the 
mortgage would only need to be repaid once, its not clear why he was sold separate life and critical 
illness insurance. And given he had a repayment mortgage,  where the outstanding balance  would 
reduce with each monthly payment, its also not clear why he was sold level rather  than decreasing  
cover. 
On balance, I think  Mr H only needed a single policy providing decreasing  (not level) life and critical 
illness cover. This would have involved a lower monthly cost, something I think is likely to have been 
an important  consideration  given his age at the time and the fact he appears to have been borrowing 
Ref: DRN55595993100% of the property purchase price. Its with this in mind  that I currently intend to uphold  this 
complaint.
putting things  right
With suitable advice, I think its likely Mr H would have ended up taking a single  policy providing  
decreasing (not level)  life and critical illness  cover.
Connells has provided  a quote that is says shows  decreasing cover  wouldnt have been any cheaper.  
But from what  I can see this quote is based on current rates and doesnt  necessarily reflect what Mr H 
would have had to pay in 2007.
To clarify what alternative cover would have cost at the time, we contacted Legal  and General. As this 
is the insurer  used for Mr Hs actual cover, I think its rates provide a reasonable basis for the 
purposes of comparison. Legal and General has told us that a single  decreasing life and critical  illness 
policy with a term of 35 years, and based  on Mr Hs age and state  of health in 2007,  would have cost 
£39.62 per month. 
The total amount Mr H did pay for his separate level life and critical illness policies  was £77.62.  So 
that means he paid £38 per month more than he would have  done if hed received suitable  advice. 
Legal and General has told us both policies  started on 23 February 2007. Unfortunately,  its records 
dont show when they were  cancelled, but Mr H has provided bank statements showing Legal and 
General was still collecting premiums of £18.67 and £58.95 in January 2009. It was at this point that 
he says he cancelled them.
To put things right, I currently think Connells should pay Mr H compensation of A + B, where:
A.= a refund each  monthly overpayment  of £38 for each premium paid between  February 2007 
and January 2009, when his Legal and General policies  were  cancelled; and
B.= simple interest at 8% per year on each overpayment being  refunded from the date it was 
paid to the date compensation is paid. Interest is intended to compensate Mr H for not having  
the use of his money. Income tax may be payable  on the interest.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to partly uphold  this complaint. I currently think  Connells 
Limited should pay Mr H compensation calculated  using  the method  set out above.
Ref: DRN5559599