K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited has unfairly held him 
responsible for causing an accident under his motor  policy.
background
Mr R driving his own car was following his friend  also driving his own car. Both were aware 
of the other. Mr Rs friend stopped  suddenly  and as Mr R went to overtake him, his friend  
executed a U turn hitting Mr Rs car and pushing him into a barrier.
Initially Mr R said his friend  admitted the accident was his fault which was later confirmed  by 
his friends mother.  Both Mr R and his friend were insured by Hastings.
Mr R had dash cam footage which showed the accident happening. Advantage decided  it 
was wholly  Mr Rs fault. It also wrongly  told Mr R his No Claims Discount (NCD) wouldnt be 
affected. However it was and was consequently reduced to nothing  which  caused  Mr R to 
have pay extra premium  to his new insurer. Advantage offered Mr R £50 for this mistake 
which Mr R refused. Mr R thought Advantage was being unfair and complained.  But 
Advantage wouldnt change its stance.
As Mr R remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator  didnt  think  
Advantage had done anything wrong. Mr R disagreed  so his complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 September and I said the following:
We asked Advantage  to provide the evidence it considered from Mr Rs friend  in 
holding Mr R responsible  beyond the dash  cam footage supplied by Mr R. We asked 
this so we could see how Advantage weighed up all the evidence. 
However unusually  Advantage said it couldnt supply this due to Data Protection 
laws. However its normal  in complaints concerning liability for an accident that were 
given at least the statement from the other driver and details of the damage to his car 
to include relevant engineering evidence concerning that. However, it appears 
Advantage has got confused given  the other driver  here was also insured by it. 
Therefore I consider  it has not satisfactorily produced all the evidence it relied on to 
come to its decision  to hold Mr R responsible for causing this accident because  I 
have seen nothing  that this other driver said concerning the accident, what  he 
thought happened and why crucially he was persuaded to change his initial  view that 
he was at fault for this accident. I dont  consider  thats reasonable.
Further it then doesnt show me that Advantage came to its decision on liability 
reasonably. This service  doesnt  decide  who is responsible for causing an accident 
as that is a matter  for the courts.  However we do look to see if the insurer, Advantage  
here, came to its decision reasonably and fairly bearing in mind the evidence and the 
policy conditions. And I dont think it did.
Having viewed the dash cam footage, I dont think Advantage was right to suggest in 
its claim notes  that the other driver possibly had his indicator  to turn right on. Whilst 
the dash cam footage is short theres  no indication the indicator was on and it looks 
Ref: DRN56185032like the headlights  of Mr Rs car illuminated the situation only,  as it got closer. Prior to 
Mr R executing his overtaking  manoeuvre, there is no indicator flashing  at all either to 
explain why he stopped as in the left indicator, or that he was intending to turn right. 
Its also clear  from the correspondence Mr R had with the police  that the police officer  
was of the view the dash  cam clearly showed that Mr R was not at fault. I tend to 
agree. Here  we have  a stopped car, which could have seen (had the other driver 
looked in his mirror) Mr R executing an overtaking  manoeuvre.  And instead  the other 
driver turned without indicating and more so very obviously  without checking  his 
mirrors. Thats against the Highway Code. Advantage might well have been  better  
helped in its decision making, had it contacted the police officer  as Mr R repeatedly 
requested.
Therefore, I dont consider Advantage made a reasonable decision that Mr R was at 
fault for causing  this accident. I also dont  think it adequately sought to protect Mr Rs 
interests as a policyholder. 
So I consider it should  now amend all internal and external databases  to show  Mr R 
wasnt at fault. It should also reinstate his NCD. 
It should also provide  a letter to Mr R explaining  it had held Mr R responsible in error, 
so that Mr R can show this to his subsequent insurers  to ensure he gets a refund of 
any premium amount he was charged due to this fault incident.  If those insurers for 
whatever reason are unable to provide the refund Mr R is due, then I expect  
Advantage to reimburse him the extra amount (once  ascertained from the 
subsequent insurers), adding interest  of 8% simple  per year from the date Mr R paid 
such premium  to the date it reimburses  him.
This caused Mr R a considerable amount of distress  and upset, quite understandably  
given how the accident occurred with the other driver failing to indicate or look in his 
mirrors. So I think  Advantage  should pay Mr R compensation of £250.  This includes 
the amount of £50 Advantage previously offered Mr R for its letter  mistakenly 
confirming his NCD wouldnt  be affected.
Advantage responded to my provisional  decision agreeing with my view that there was no 
indicator flashing  from the other  drivers car. However it still failed to provide any statement 
from the other driver  as to what he thought happened and why the initial admission of liability 
was subsequently withdrawn. 
Mr R didnt respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that there is no detail of the evidence Advantage considered in coming 
to its view on liability given I have seen  no details of what the other drivers evidence  was. 
This is important as both the other  driver and his mother  had initially  agreed he was 
responsible for causing the accident. And whilst such  things can often change,  there is no 
evidence before me to show how and why it changed. 
Ref: DRN56185033From the little Advantage has disclosed,  it wrongly  said Mr R pushed the other  driver  into the 
barrier when Mr Rs evidence  is that the other driver pushed him into the barrier  as he turned 
right as Mr R was overtaking.  This  is because  it seemed the other  driver didnt look before 
executing his turn to the right after stopping  his car suddenly and without  warning.  Given  the 
layout of the accident scene and the dash  cam footage  from Mr R  it seems  fairly clear that 
it was Mr Rs car that was pushed  into the barrier on the right hand side and that Mr R was 
overtaking the other drivers car on the right as well. 
Taking everything into account  I remain of the view that Advantage hasnt shown me how it 
came to its decision  on liability and I consider  consequently it hasnt come to its decision  
reasonably, in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to the following:
Amend all internal  and external databases to show that Mr R wasnt at fault for 
causing this accident.
Reinstate Mr Rs NCD.
Write  a letter for Mr R to show to his subsequent  insurers  explaining that it held Mr R 
at fault in error. So that Mr R can obtain  a refund  of any extra  premium  he paid as 
result of Advantages error in holding him responsible.
In the unlikely event that these subsequent insurers refuse to provide the refund for 
whatever reason,  Advantage should  do so instead.  adding interest of 8% simple  per 
year from the date Mr R paid the extra  premium to the date it reimburses him. If 
income tax is to be deducted  from the interest, appropriate documentation should  be 
provided to Mr R for HMRC  purposes.
Pay Mr R the sum of £250  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5618503