K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Ms M are unhappy that the premium for their contents insurance, arranged  through  
Avantia Insurance Limited, increased  by 50% without their being informed. 
background
In January 2017 Mr L and Ms M took out a contents  insurance policy  through an online 
process with Avantia.  Mr L advises that he subsequently  called Avantia and told it that the 
correspondence address was now the same as the risk address. He also wrote  to the 
insurer. He contends that he didnt  give any authority for the policy  to auto-renew. 
When the renewal letters  were sent out, they went to the old address. Mr L says that he first 
became aware  of the new premium when  he was advised about it by the credit provider 
(which provides the facility for monthly  payments) in respect of the policy premium. He 
discovered that the premium had increased by 50% and took immediate steps to cancel the 
policy. 
Avantia agreed  to cancel the policy without  charging a fee but it wouldnt refund the two 
months premiums for the time the policy had been  on risk.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Avantia had acted reasonably.
Mr L and Ms M accepted  my proposed decision. Avantia hasnt made  any further comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
change of address
Mr L says he informed  Avantia of his change of address  by phone,  and followed this up with 
a letter  to the insurer. Avantia hasnt been able to trace any phone call to it at the time. And 
as the letter  was sent to the insurer, I cant hold Avantia responsible  if the change  didnt get 
passed on to it.
auto-renewal
Mr L says the fact of his policy  being on auto-renewal is buried in the small print so he wasnt  
adequately informed of this. However  the policy  was applied  for online and before the policy 
sale could be completed Mr L was required to tick a box agreeing  to several  statements  
immediately above  that box. This included that the policy would be on auto-renew  and that 
he gave his consent to the direct debits coming out of his account.   So  I think  Mr and Ms M 
were adequately informed that the policy would auto-renew.
premium
Avantia isnt responsible for setting the premium  for the policy and I note that this increased  
due to the loss of a no claims discount (NCD) following on from a reported  loss. This would 
Ref: DRN54452352apply whether or not the claim  was followed through.  I note that in its terms of business 
Avantia says We offer products underwritten by AXA Insurance and other  insurers.  A full list 
is available on request.  For this product  as in fact that panel consisted of two insurers  this 
may be said to be a little misleading. But Ive seen no evidence  that Mr L and Ms M were 
misled into buying  a policy because of that statement.
I dont hold the view that the policy wasnt a competitive price, as I note the premium 
increase was largely due to a loss recorded  which reduced the NCD. Whilst I can see that 
Mr L and Ms M were  caused some stress and upset that was because  of their not receiving 
the renewal notice. And as they chose  to obtain insurance elsewhere after the first years  
cover I dont  think they were prejudiced by it. I dont propose to uphold  this part of the 
complaint.
As neither party has made any further  comment, my provisional findings are now final,  and 
form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5445235