K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with 
a claim she made on her home emergency  insurance policy  after her boiler stopped  working. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract  from that decision 
follows:
In August 2018 an engineer was called out to visit a property Mrs M rents  out to tenants.  
The engineer said the boiler was at risk because  the flue wasnt compatible  with the boiler.
In February 2019  during a further  call out due to an error message on the boiler  an engineer 
turned the boiler off and said it was causing an immediate danger. Mrs M said she then 
had to urgently  replace and relocate the boiler and until this was done, her tenants, including 
their young  baby, were  left without heating or hot water for nine days.
Mrs M complained to British Gas about  its customer service and said it gave her conflicting 
information about why the boiler  had to be turned off and eventually  told her it shouldnt have 
insured the boiler at all. She said she had her policy  with British  Gas since  2014  and it was 
never pointed out to her that there was an issue with the flue despite its engineers inspecting 
it each year. She also said when she decided to go through British  Gas for the installation of 
the new boiler it didnt  give her good advice and it also charged  her for additional building 
work and demanded payments before the work finished. 
British Gas responded to the complaint and said that it had told Mrs M the flue was 
unsuitable both in August 2018  and in February  2019. It said that this was a pre-existing 
issue caused by those who installed the boiler, who werent employed  by British Gas.  It also 
said it wasnt able to tell that the flue was unsuitable any earlier because it didnt look out of 
the ordinary and the readings taken from the boiler were normal.  It added that it was only 
able to establish the flue was unsuitable after it contacted the manufacturer. It offered Mrs M 
a partial premium refund which amounted to £627.27 as a goodwill  gesture. It set up a 
separate complaint about the new boiler but later told us this was outside  our jurisdiction. 
Mrs M was unhappy with British Gass  response and complained  to us. She asked for an 
apology from British  Gas and also compensation for what she referred  to as her tangible  
and intangible  costs.  These included three excess payments she made  over 2018 and 
2019, the cost of the new boiler,  rent compensation she paid her tenants and the cost of 
building work  and repairs. She also asked for compensation  for the inconvenience  caused to 
her and her tenants. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld  and 
thought that British Gass offer to Mrs M was fair and reasonable bearing in mind  that it didnt  
install the boiler originally  and that the error  wasnt obvious. He also said he couldnt 
comment on the issues about the installation  of the new boiler as this wasnt  done  under the 
policy. He said this meant it didnt relate to a regulated  activity  and was, therefore, outside  
our jurisdiction. 
Mrs M didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN59452422my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im considering 
upholding it in part. 
what does the policy cover?
The starting point  is the policy.  It includes boiler and controls cover which covers the repair  
as well as the replacement of a consumers  boiler  depending on a number  of criteria 
including its age; it has to be under  seven  years old or between seven and ten but installed 
by British Gas and insured with it since. The policy excludes the repair or replacement of 
flues which are over one metre in length.  Under  the general exclusions it also doesnt cover 
pre-existing faults that existed when the policy was first taken out and also any that 
British Gas couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about  before, for example 
pipes which  are buried  under concrete floors etc. 
I dont think the fact that the flue was unsuitable  is in question and I havent  seen  any expert 
evidence to contradict  British Gass engineers evidence.  So, based on the evidence, I think 
British Gas acted fairly and reasonably  in following its engineers  advice that the boiler  had 
to be turned off because  of the issue with the flue. I also dont think that there is any expert 
evidence which says the issue wasnt pre-existing and so, again,  I think  British  Gas was 
being fair and reasonable when it said it wasnt  responsible for repairing or replacing  the 
flue. 
Mrs M said British  Gas should pay her the cost of buying and having  a new boiler  installed.  
British Gas said this isnt something her policy would cover because  the issue was 
pre-existing and also because her boiler was over seven  years old and wasnt  installed by 
British Gas in the first place. From what I understand the boiler  was installed in 2006 but not 
by British Gas. This would make it 12 years old in 2018  and 13 in 2019  so I dont think the 
policy wouldve covered  the cost of a new boiler.  Also, even if the issue with the flue wasnt  
pre-existing and had been identified in 2014, the boiler wouldve been eight years old at the 
time and again  not covered. So, I think British Gass decision not to cover the cost of the 
new boiler is in line with its policy. 
did British Gas give Mrs M conflicting  information?
British Gas didnt  turn the boiler  off in 2018  despite saying it was at risk and later 
suggested that Mrs M had a year to rectify the issue- though this isnt in the notes of what  
Mrs M was told during the 2018  visit. Mrs M said though she was made aware  there was an 
issue, she wasnt told that she had a limited amount of time within  which to rectify it. I havent 
seen any evidence to contradict what  Mrs M has told us and I would expect something like 
this to be reflected  in the engineers notes so, on balance, I dont think  Mrs M was made 
aware that she had a year to rectify the issue, if that was indeed  the case.  
In addition to the above,  British Gas said that it shouldnt  have  insured  the boiler in the first 
place and offered  Mrs M a refund of her boiler cover between  2014 and 2018 (her premium 
also included additional cover such as cover for plumbing and electrics which  wasnt  
refunded) which came to around £630 as a goodwill gesture. I think saying it shouldve  never  
insured the boiler goes against  what British Gas did in 2018 in not turning the boiler off at the 
time and continuing  to cover it. I think if it believed it shouldve never insured the boiler, this 
shouldve been  obvious when it first identified the issue  with the flue in 2018.  So, its not 
clear why British Gas continued to insure  the boiler and only refused to cover it beyond 
2019. So, I agree with Mrs M when she said that British Gas gave her conflicting  information. 
Ref: DRN59452423Having said the above, I think the fact that British Gas has refunded Mrs Ms boiler cover 
premium since  2014  as a goodwill gesture is fair and reasonable because at worst, it 
shouldve never  covered  the boiler  and at best it shouldve stopped covering it in 2018. But I 
also think this goodwill gesture should also include a refund of Mrs Ms boiler  cover  premium 
for 2019 because  British  Gas continued  to cover the boiler until then when it, arguably, 
shouldnt have.  
when should the issue with the flue have been identified?
British Gas said it didnt  identify the issue with the flue any earlier because the boilers 
readings were normal and so the error  with the flue wasnt obvious  at inspection. As far as I 
am aware  there is no expert  evidence  to contradict British Gass engineers and for that 
reason I think,  on balance, this was something  that wasnt obvious. And I also note that in 
British Gass notes  it states  that it had to speak  to the manufacturer  to confirm whether  the 
flue was suitable  or not and I think this further  supports British Gass argument.  
Mrs M disagrees  and says that this shouldve been  detected in 2014 rather  than later and 
that this left her and her tenants  in a difficult situation where  she had to change  her boiler 
with no warning and also meant that her tenants were  without heating  and hot water  for 
almost nine days. As I said above, I accept what British Gass engineer said about the 
difficulties in identifying  the problem with the flue. But even if I didnt,  and I were  to accept 
that this should have  been identified in 2014,  I dont think this wouldve put Mrs M in a better 
position to the one she finds  herself in now. This is because all this wouldve meant is that 
she would  have had to replace the boiler sooner. 
However, as I said above British Gas has given Mrs M confusing  information and suggested 
that she had a year to rectify the issue with the flue in 2018 (though I accept it is unclear 
whether that was correct or not). Regardless  of whether this was correct or not, I think  if it 
had said this to Mrs M in 2018, Mrs M would not have gone through  the distress and 
inconvenience of having to buy a new boiler  within a limited  time or leave her tenants  without  
heating or hot water  for around nine days.  I think she wouldve sourced a new boiler  whilst  
the old one was still in operation (bearing in mind British Gas didnt feel it was necessary to 
turn it off in 2018) and this would have avoided the distress and inconvenience she had to go 
through in 2019. For this reason, I think British Gas should pay her £250 compensation. Mrs 
M said she would like her tenants to also be compensated for their distress  and 
inconvenience, however, as they are not insured under the policy (the policy  is in Mrs Ms 
name) they are not eligible to complain to us, and for that reason I cannot award them any 
compensation. 
other issues
Mrs M said she refunded her tenants  £325 for a weeks rent for when they were  left without 
heating and hot water. As I said above,  this couldve been avoided  if British Gas had told her 
to replace the boiler in 2018 and allowed her time to do so before the old boiler  was turned 
off, so I think British Gas should reimburse her this cost, subject to her providing the 
necessary evidence such as bank transfer or bank statements etc. 
Mrs M asked  for three excesses to be paid back to her for three claims she made while she 
had her British Gas policy. But as British Gas attended the property and did some work on 
the boiler over those  times and also carried out yearly inspections, I dont think  it would be 
fair to ask British Gas to return those. 
Ref: DRN59452424As our investigator explained, as the new boiler purchase and installation were  carried out 
by British Gas on a private  basis and not under the policy, these arent regulated  activities  
and therefore  not something I can look at or award  compensation  for. This also means I 
cant look into any damage  caused  during the installation.
Mrs M raised concerns  about neighbouring properties that may have similar issues,  
however, in this decision  I am only looking at her individual complaint against British Gas 
which means Im not able to look at potential complaints  from other consumers here. 
Finally, Mrs M asked  for an apology for British Gas but, at this stage, I dont think  a forced  
apology would have  much meaning so I am not going to ask British Gas to do this. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given I am considering  upholding Mrs Ms complaint against  British Gas 
Insurance Limited in part and asking it to pay Mrs M:
The amount  she paid towards  her boiler cover  premium between  2014 and 2019 (less 
the £627.27 it has already refunded).
£250 for the distress and inconvenience  it caused her.
£325 for the refund she gave  to her tenants  in respect of a weeks rent, subject to her 
providing the relevant evidence and documentation in support. 
developments
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision but neither agreed with it. British  Gas said 
that it didnt understand why further  premiums are to be returned  for 2019 if I agree that 
excess payments are valid since work had been  carried out. It added that this means that 
Mrs M benefitted  from the policy. It also said that it was Mrs Ms decision to refund her 
tenants rent and not something  that British Gas should be responsible for. It added that 
whilst it was unfortunate that Mrs Ms tenants were  without heating  or hot water  it assumes  
that they used  heaters over that period and that the refund I asked it to pay is not reflective 
of the heating or hot water element of the weekly rental.
Mrs M also responded making  several  points  including the following:
The engineer  who first identified the flue was unsuitable in 2018 did not carry out any 
extra checks and had the same access to the boiler as all the engineers since  2014. She 
questioned why British Gas found  it necessary to speak to the manufacturer in 2018 and 
not before.  She said neither the flue nor the boiler was changed  since  2014. She added 
that she believed  that the engineer who inspected  the boiler in 2018  probably carried  out 
the correct tests which other engineers  had failed to do up to that point.  
She asked for evidence as to why the flue was suitable before 2018  and questioned  the 
checks that were carried out by British Gas since 2014.  She added  that if the boiler was 
deemed safe then there was no pre-existing fault. 
She also asked for evidence that the boiler was installed  in 2006 and not by British Gas.  
She said she bought  the property in 2014  and as the fault was identified in 2018 this 
would make the boiler four years old which means, under  the terms and conditions of the 
policy, that British  Gas should  cover  the replacement boiler.  
She said she hasnt received the good  will gesture payment of £627.27 yet. 
If issues with the boiler  had been  identified in 2014 when  she bought her property, she 
would have had the chance  to go back to the person she bought  it from and perhaps got 
the replacement  costs covered. 
Ref: DRN59452425She doesnt feel that the £250 compensation I awarded takes into account the distress 
caused by British Gas when  it was rude to her on a call or when it failed to check and 
offer her tenants  heating alternatives.
She attached  a screen shot of her bank  transaction where she refunded her tenants  
£325 for a weeks rent. 
She believes she should get all her premium payments back. 
The new boiler  installation was carried out by British  Gas and not on a private basis and I 
should therefore consider the damage  this caused including to Mrs Ms carpet.
She believes British  Gas shouldve reviewed the other boilers it covers in the area and 
that its failure to do so is a failure of health  and safety precautions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gass comments
Ill firstly  deal with British Gass comments.  It queried why I thought further premium  
payments were due if I accepted that none of the excess  payments should be refunded. As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  I thought that Mrs Ms policy either shouldnt have been 
offered at all- meaning the boiler premiums from 2014 onwards were due- or shouldve been  
cancelled in 2018 when the fault was initially identified. This is why I think the 2019 premium 
should be refunded. British  Gas already offered  to refund the premiums  that related  to the 
boiler between  2014-2018  as a goodwill gesture. From what  I understand the reason why it 
didnt offer to refund  the 2019 premium  was because it thought Mrs M was aware of the 
issue with the flue since 2018. But as I explained  in my provisional decision, I didnt think  this 
was made  clear to Mrs M at the time and I thought that the information  British Gas had given 
her was confusing.  Thats  why I think  the 2019 premium, as far as it relates to the boiler and 
not the other  cover provided  such as for electric  or plumbing for example, should also be 
refunded.
British Gas also said it shouldnt be responsible  for the refund Mrs M paid her tenants in 
terms of their rent. In my provisional  decision I said that British Gas left Mrs M with very little 
time to replace  the boiler and this also led to the property being  without hot water  or heating 
for over a week. As I said I thought all this could have been avoided  had British Gas 
explained to Mrs M in 2018 that she had a year to rectify the issue-  thus giving her enough  
time to replace  the boiler without it having to be turned off. I think being without heating  and 
hot water  in February when the weather tends  to be cold wouldve rendered  the property 
uninhabitable even if heaters were used. I therefore understand why Mrs M felt the need to 
refund her tenants  rent. And because I think that this was caused  by British Gass  actions, I 
think it should be responsible for it. 
Mrs Ms comments
I dont think the fact that Mrs M bought  her property in 2014 made the boiler  four years old in 
2018. British Gass engineers notes show that the boiler was installed in 2006 and this is 
what I have relied on to say that the boiler  wouldve been 12 years  old in 2018 and 13 in 
2019. I havent seen any other expert  evidence  to contradict this. I also dont think the 
boilers age is affected by the date Mrs M bought her property- it is accepted by both parties 
that the boiler was already there  when  she bought the property. 
Mrs M said that British Gass engineers had the same access to the boiler  from 2014  to 2018 
and that the engineer who attended  the property in 2018  didnt  carry out any extra  tests.  
Ref: DRN59452426Although she said he probably carried out the correct tests which other  engineers had failed 
to do previously. She said for this reason  the fault shouldve been identified in 2014. As I 
said in my provisional decision, the only expert evidence  Ive been provided with is from 
British Gas and it says that the fault wasnt identifiable  before 2018. Mrs M may believe  that 
the same  tests were  carried  out each year or that they weren't done correctly before  2018.  
But she hasn't  provided any expert evidence to support  her view. And there could  be many 
reasons why a fault might  only become apparent at a certain time. So, without any expert  
evidence that the engineers hadn't previously tested  the system  correctly, I don't think  it 
would be fair to say that qualified engineers didn't do their jobs properly  based  solely  on 
Mrs Ms belief  that thats what  happened.
Mrs M said if the issue with the boiler had been identified  in 2014, she may have asked the 
seller of her property to cover the cost of replacing  the boiler. As I said above,  on the 
evidence available  to me, the issue with the flue wasnt identifiable before 2018. Even if it 
had been identified in 2014 there  is no evidence to suggest that Mrs M wouldve been able 
to recover these costs  from the seller,  even on the balance of probabilities. If I were to award 
Mrs M the cost of replacing the entire boiler  on this basis,  I would be making a highly 
speculative assumption  and not one based  on any tangible evidence. 
Mrs M asked  me to provide evidence about  the flue, but this isnt my role. My role is to 
assess the evidence  that has been presented  to me by the parties. 
Mrs M has also said that the new boiler  installation was done  by British  Gas and not on a 
private basis. She said she has to pay £4,420 for the new boiler and has provided me with a 
copy of the relevant invoice. British Gas said that the new boiler was being provided on a 
private basis. From what Ive seen I think the boiler is being provided on a private basis, 
albeit, by British  Gas. If the installation was being done under an insurance policy, I wouldve 
expected Mrs M to be charged a fraction of what she is being charged now (for example by 
only having to pay an excess) and not for the full price of the boiler plus the installation 
costs. So, I think British  Gas is installing the boiler  as a private company rather than as 
Mrs Ms insurer. And for this reason,  this isnt something I can look into as part of this 
decision and this includes the damage  to her carpet which happened  as a result  of the 
installation. 
Ive already explained in my provisional  decision why I cant, in this decision, ask British  Gas 
to look at other boilers it installed  in the area. 
With regards to the distress and inconvenience  award I made I think  the £250 figure would 
take into account any issues with British Gass  customer service.  I also note that the majority  
of the distress and inconvenience was suffered by Mrs Ms tenants who- as I have already 
explained- I cant award compensation to in this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I am upholding Mrs Ms complaint against British Gas Insurance  
Limited in part and asking it to pay Mrs M:
The amount  she paid towards  her boiler cover  premium between  2014 and 2019. Mrs M 
said the goodwill  gesture of £627.27  is yet to be refunded  and if that is the case  it should 
be refunded now as part of this payment. 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience  it caused her.
£325 for the refund she gave  to her tenants  in respect of a weeks rent, subject to her 
providing the relevant evidence and documentation in support. I note Mrs M has 
Ref: DRN59452427provided us with a screen shot of the bank transaction which we will provide to 
British Gas. It should add simple interest to this amount at a rate of 8% per year from the 
date this refund was issued by Mrs M to the date British Gas pays  it back to her. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the above  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell 
it Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays the £250 compensation and the premium 
refunds later than this, it must also pay interest  on these amounts from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5945242