K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
St Andrews  Insurance plc (St Andrews) says its responsible for the sale and for this 
complaint.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  by post in 2001 shortly  after taking a loan. The loan was repayable  
over 60 monthly repayments, with the first repayment not due until three months after the 
loan started.  During this repayment deferral period, and just over three  weeks  after signing  
the loan agreement, Mrs W signed and dated a direct debit to apply for and pay for the PPI.
The monthly loan repayments were £62.01 (Mrs W paid a £40 courier fee a month earlier). 
The PPI cost an additional £7.53, making  the total monthly payment £69.54.  The PPI was a 
regular premium contract,  the premiums  didnt attract interest  and, from what St Andrews 
has told us, if Mrs W stopped  paying  for the policy it would be cancelled  and without penalty.
From the terms St Andrews says applied, the policy provided life, accident  and sickness 
cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations.  The life cover, subject to its terms, would 
clear the outstanding loan balance on death.  For a successful  disability  claim,  the policy 
offered to pay a benefit equal to the monthly  loan payment for up to 12 months - six if the 
disability were due to most back disorders.
Mrs W was employed  by a company involved in manufacturing and had been there 18 years 
at the time of the sale. From  what shes told us, she was entitled  to no more than statutory 
sick pay and didnt  have  any other  means, like savings, to make  her loan payments with if 
she couldnt work due to sickness or injury. Aside from childhood infections she suffered as 
a child or young  person at least 20 years  before the sale, Mrs W hasnt told us of having 
had, before the sale, any health issues or of missing work  due to any health  issues.
St Andrews  has sent us evidence to show that the loan account  closed in 2004. Mrs Ws 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but Ive read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mrs Ws 
representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt have taken 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Mrs Ws representatives believe there to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  St Andrews should have told Mrs W 
about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN58183222The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews (and ended in 2004 in 
any case).  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code.
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like 
St Andrews,  selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN58183223The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
St Andrews  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN58183224Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
St Andrews,  Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs W says she was sold the policy  
via a letter she was sent  and I think it likely  the Creditcare Acceptance Form,  containing 
the direct  debit Mrs W signed to apply  for, agree to and pay for the PPI, was sent to her by 
post and she returned it by post.
Mrs W has said she had no interest in PPI and has said it was just included  as part of the 
package with her loan. But Mrs W didnt  sign and date the direct debit to apply for the PPI 
until after her loan had started and over three  weeks after shed signed her loan agreement. 
Also, although the loan agreement in use when  Mrs W signed  for her loan had spaces to add 
details of any insurance being  taken,  these spaces were blank on her agreement. So when 
Mrs W signed her loan agreement, it didnt include PPI and she hadnt yet applied for PPI.
With all this in mind, what I have doesnt persuade me Mrs Ws PPI was just included as part 
of her loan.
Also, Mrs Ws loan started the day after she signed her loan agreement  and records  sent to 
us by St Andrews indicate a loan cheque was arranged  the same  day. The loan agreement 
Mrs W signed says a cheque for the loan funds was to be couriered to her, for which  shed 
pay a fee. So, from what I have, not only had the loan started weeks  earlier  but Mrs W had 
most likely also received the cheque for the funds weeks  before she applied for the PPI.
In the light of what Ive said above,  as Mrs Ws loan had already started when she applied  
for the PPI, I think it likely she wouldve known that she could have  the loan without having 
the PPI and that it was optional. She signed  for the PPI separately from signing for the loan 
and the direct debit  form set out details of the PPI cost, so I think it likely  Mrs W knew  the 
PPI was something separate from the loan and carried a separate  cost.
Mrs W hasnt  said anything that makes  me think she was pressured into the cover. With this 
and all Ive said above in mind, taking everything into account I think  its more  likely Mrs W 
knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without undue  pressure.
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it didnt  give advice during  this sale.  Mrs W hasnt said advice was given. 
With all this in mind, and given also that this was a postal sale,  Im persuaded St Andrews 
didnt give advice. 
This means  St Andrews didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs W. Instead, it 
had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  her to make an 
informed choice about whether to take the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs W was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect her payments  if she were unable  to work due 
Ref: DRN58183225to accident or sickness).  Ive reached  this conclusion  because I think its unlikely Mrs W 
wouldve taken the PPI without any sense of what it was for. Im also satisfied Mrs W was 
told what the PPI premium would be and what the monthly benefit was  as these were set 
out on the form she signed to apply for and agree to the cover. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs W agreed to take the policy. So I 
dont think St Andrews gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor value.
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs W has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on St Andrews.
what effect did the shortcomings of St Andrews have on Mrs W? To what extent did 
Mrs W suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mrs W. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had St Andrews done  things properly. 
Mrs W says she would not have  taken it and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs W had to weigh  up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
Ref: DRN58183226against the risk of being unable to work  due to accident and sickness. As Ive found above, 
Mrs W chose  to take this policy. So I consider that its reasonable to conclude she had some 
interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But Mrs W made this decision based 
on incomplete information. So what she thought she was getting is not exactly  what  she got.
The extent  to which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining  if Mrs W has 
suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mrs W was given about  the cost and benefit was clear.  But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  shed bought and 
what she actually bought, from the terms St Andrews has referred us to, were  the following:
The policy excluded disability claims relating to pre-existing conditions (health issues  a 
doctor, in the 12 months before the policy start, had diagnosed or suggested treatment  
or advice  for - or health issues for which significant symptoms were  experienced or for 
which a doctor had started investigations in the 12 months  before the policy start  or a 
chronic or continuing disease Mrs W was aware  of at the policy  start). 
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and limited  benefits to six 
months for claims  relating to most back disorders.
To be eligible  for a disability claim,  Mrs W had to be wholly unable to do her own job or 
other work her experience, education  or training would allow  her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs W pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Ive seen  nothing that persuades  me she wasnt  
eligible for its benefits, and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, 
couldve proven  valuable to Mrs W should  the insured risks have become a reality.  I also 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve  been caught by any of the significant 
exclusions - based  on what shes told us, Mrs W didnt have any health issues  that wouldve 
been treated as pre-existing  conditions under the policy exclusions, for example. 
So, in light of all Ive said above, I think Mrs W still had some good reasons to take the PPI.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the PPI 
excluded claims for mental  health  conditions and benefits for back  disorders were limited to 
six months. But the policy didnt place more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of 
a claim for back disorders than wouldve applied to any other disability claim  and I think it 
unlikely Mrs W wouldve  expected to be able to make a disability claim on the policy  without 
first providing some  evidence  to support that claim. So, while  this exclusion and limitation  
mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs W from taking 
the policy, Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it.
In saying this I bear in mind the policy allowed for multiple claims to be made for disability, 
subject to a maximum total of 36 monthly benefit payments, and the amount Mrs W could 
Ref: DRN58183227receive for a single claim was significant even  over six months when compared to the 
monthly premium. Also, Mrs W had nothing but statutory pay to fall back  on if sickness or 
injury stopped her working.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she were  wholly  unable  to do her 
own job - and unable  to do other work  her experience, education or training would allow  her 
to do - it might have played into her thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have 
given her pause for thought  but, given her circumstances  and limited  means  in case of 
sickness or injury, on balance I think Mrs W wouldve still been interested  in taking the PPI.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs W wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely she thought 
she was getting  and provided  benefits  that would help her manage  the consequences  if she 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than 
not Mrs W wouldve taken the PPI in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. 
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs W would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as result of the sale was the same position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
Thats because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken the policy, Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not that Mrs W wouldve still taken the PPI 
had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
Ref: DRN58183228conclude St Andrews should pay Mrs W compensation,  as that would  put her in a better 
position than she wouldve  been in had everything  happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mrs W thinks St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  theres a possibility a court  might conclude  some of the 
statements of St Andrews misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
St Andrews  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information it gave Mrs W, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect 
St Andrews  to have  met in 2001 when providing  information about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that St Andrews had been  in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5818322