K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC (when  it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Lloyds Bank  is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy alongside  a joint mortgage in 1992. It protected their 
monthly mortgage repayments. 
Mr and Mrs J took out additional  PPI alongside  further advances  on their mortgage account 
in 1996 and 1998.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs J 
disagree. Theyre mainly concerned that they werent made aware  they were taking out PPI 
with their mortgage and they say it wasnt explained  to them.  Mr and Mrs J told us that if PPI 
had been presented to them as an option then they wouldve  declined  it as they dont feel it 
was something they needed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
what happened  when Mr and Mrs J arranged  a mortgage in 1992
Usually, Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Lloyds hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr and Mrs J to show how they agreed to take out PPI. I dont think  thats 
surprising. I wouldnt expect Lloyds  or Mr and Mrs J to have kept these records for so long  
particularly as this mortgage account has been closed for over 15 years.  And it wouldnt be 
reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs J might be able to remember  about the sale after 
such a long time.  
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Js home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly repayments were 
protected even  if they couldnt  work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs J mightve forgotten some of the details from 
the sale as this was so long ago. On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs J 
decided they wanted to protect their home by taking out PPI. And it was added to their 
mortgage at their request. 
Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. So, in fairness to them, it looked at 
their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended  PPI during the 
meeting Mr and Mrs J recalled having  at the bank. 
Ref: DRN52771662Given the lack of paperwork showing how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs J, I think  this is 
the fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations  on the lender. If a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  
information in a clear  way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover  it 
recommends is suitable.   
Mr and Mrs J took out this borrowing in joint names  when  they were  both in work and 
contributing towards  paying the mortgage.  Theres no paperwork to show who had the PPI 
but Mr and Mrs J told us they both did. So, I think its reasonable to assume that Lloyds 
recommended PPI for them  both. 
Mr and Mrs J were both eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account what  they told us about 
their sick pay arrangements  at work  including the possibility of discretionary sick pay being  
paid to Mr J beyond the date his contractual  sick pay entitlement  ended.  But relying on an 
employer to pay sick pay when it doesnt  have to isnt as dependable as taking out PPI 
which guarantees a monthly benefit in the event of a successful  claim.
It would be unusual for someone to be guaranteed to receive full sick pay for a whole year. 
In the absence of anything  to show theyre right about what  theyve told us about their sick 
pay, I must  decide  what I think is most  likely by looking at all the available information and 
the wider circumstances.
I cant reasonably say that Mr and Mrs J wouldnt have found  PPI useful. It wouldve covered 
their mortgage repayments plus some  extra  for household bills and other  expenses  and paid 
out on top of any sick pay benefits for up to 12 months per claim if Mr J and/or Mrs J was too 
sick to work. 
As the policy wouldve paid out in addition to sick pay it couldve been a useful extra benefit 
at whats likely to have  been a difficult time if either  (or both of them) had needed to claim as 
Mr and Mrs J might well have faced extra costs as a result of illness  or disability.   
As well as this, the policy wouldve also paid out if either of them  became unexpectedly 
unemployed. Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs J long term cover for their 
mortgage.
There was no guarantee when  they took out this mortgage that Mr and Mrs J would always 
have savings to rely on as everyones  circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like they preferred not to spend  savings, or they had other plans for that money,  
since they took out this mortgage  rather than invest all their savings in buying the house. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs J could depend on being able to continue to keep  savings 
intact to spend  on other things or to provide financial security for the future. 
Looking at all the information Ive seen,  and thinking  about  their circumstances, I find that 
PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs J. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mr and Mrs J were 
affected by any of the usual conditions limiting the policys main benefits  when they took out 
PPI in 1992. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take it out. 
Ref: DRN52771663Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to them  when they bought  
the policy. But the monthly premiums seem to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs J when 
they took the policy out. Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way 
this policy  was sold. But I think Mr and Mrs J still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd  
been better informed  as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
what happened  when Mr and Mrs J arranged  further advances  in 1996 and 1998
PPI wasnt extended  automatically when Mr and Mrs J arranged their further  advances. 
I think its more likely that they agreed  the extra cost as they wanted  the PPI benefits to 
cover their additional borrowing each time. And I can understand why. As far as I can see 
their circumstances were broadly the same. The new policies taken out in 1996 and 1998 
both gave Mr and Mrs J the same benefits they already had in place to protect  their original  
mortgage and provided them with the long term protection  they already had set up for their 
initial borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs J continued to be able to take advantage of all the benefits under  the policy. And 
theres nothing to suggest that the extra  cost was a problem for them  when they set up the 
arrangements at their bank to pay for this additional  PPI. 
Taking all their circumstances into account, even  if there were  failings in the way Lloyds sold 
them PPI, I dont think that better information wouldve put Mr and Mrs J off having  it. So 
I dont find they are worse  off as a result  of anything that Lloyds mightve  done  wrong.  And 
this means that theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5277166