K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her three  payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policies  in June 2000, July 2000 and November 2003 at the same time as 
taking out  loans. She applied for the loans and PPI policies  in branch. 
The June 2000 loan was repayable over a 60-month  term. The monthly loan repayment was 
£203.85 with the PPI costing an additional  £21.15 making the total monthly repayment 
£225.00. The policies  didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either party with 30 
days notice without penalty. 
The July 2000  loan was partly used  to clear the June 2000 loan early. It was taken out over 
a 10-year term. The monthly loan repayment  was £237.15 with the PPI costing an additional  
£24.60 making  the total monthly repayment £261.75. The policies didnt attract  interest and 
could be cancelled by either party with 30 days notice without penalty.
The November 2003 loan was partly used  to clear the July 2000 loan early.  It was taken out 
over a 15-year term. The monthly loan repayment was £206.68 with the PPI costing an 
additional £21.44 making the total monthly  repayment £228.12.  The policies didnt attract  
interest and could be cancelled by either party with 30 days  notice without penalty.
All three policies provided cover for Mrs M for accident, sickness, unemployment and life   
subject to the exclusions and limitations.  They offered to repay  Mrs Ms monthly  loan 
repayment for up to 60 months in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 in the 
event of unemployment. 
At the time of the sales, Mrs M was employed  as a factory worker. She  has told us she was 
not entitled to any sick pay should  she be unable to work. Mrs M has told us shed get at 
least three months pay in the event of redundancy. Mrs M had no other  means to repay her 
loans. Mrs M has said she was in good health at the time of the sales.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the final loan account closed in 2005. 
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
Ref: DRN59530212The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  BoS should have 
told Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs M and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 2000 and 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs)  overarching  Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The final credit agreement  itself concluded in 2005.  That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  for the July 2000 and November 2003 sales, The General Insurance  
Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  the GISC Code 
applies. 
These sales were made during a period  of industry self-regulation  by the General Insurance  
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN59530213The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
For the two sales in 2000, under  the transitional  provisions which continue to apply to 
complaints like this about acts or omissions before 1 December  2001,  Im also required to 
take into account what determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of 
the Banking Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent 
complaint. I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN59530214-Whether BoS gave  Mrs M sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policies, including drawing 
to her attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policies was optional. 
Ive seen copies  of all three credit  agreements.  And I can see that on all three the premium 
for the PPI was given separately to the loan repayments. And I can see all three loan 
agreements had boxes  to accept or decline the PPI. In all three cases the box to accept PPI 
has been marked with a cross.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs M knew  the policies were 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
The sales  all took place  in branch  meetings. BoS has told us that it would have provided 
advice to Mrs M. From experience I am aware that BoS did provide advice when selling PPI 
during branch meetings  and Ive not seen anything to make me think  anything different 
happened here.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policies were appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policies  were  a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs M. It seems Mrs M cant remember clearly  what happened  and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policies. This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited information 
about Mrs Ms financial circumstances,  but there is no specific  evidence  to show the adviser 
took steps to establish whether Mrs M would have been caught by the significant exclusions 
and limitations which  might have meant the policies  did not fully meet her needs. For 
example, there is nothing  to suggest BoS considered whether Mrs M had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policies were suitable  for Mrs M given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN59530215While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policies were  ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs M met the eligibility criteria for the policies.
-Mrs M had a need for the policies  she would not have received any sick pay if she 
was unable to work  due to illness, her redundancy benefits are likely to be limited 
and she didnt have  any savings  she could fall back on. The policies would have 
helped Mrs M manage the consequences were she unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mrs M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mrs M. There  
was nothing about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs M sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policies to enable her to understand what BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs M was given a broad description of what the 
policies was intended to cover (that is that the policies would protect  her payments if Mrs M 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness and disability) and of the cost.  I have  reached  
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mrs M would have taken out the policies without 
any sense of what the policies were for and the policy premiums were set out on the credit 
agreements.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before    
Mrs M agreed  to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies was a suitable  recommendation  for Mrs M Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policies it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs M. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mrs M all of the information  she 
needed about the policies  to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN59530216-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
What effect did BoSs  shortcomings have on Mrs M? To what extent  did Mrs M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies to Mrs M. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policies, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policies it recommended was suitable for Mrs M, I have  found that the policies were  
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mrs M would  have  acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policies in any 
event.
Mrs M says she wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policies, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
Ref: DRN59530217As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs M was given about the cost was clear.  
But the information about other aspects of the policies, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions werent as clear as it should have been.  
Im not persuaded BoS made clear exactly what Mrs M would get back  in return  in the event 
she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ms expectations about what  the 
policies would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient to meet  her loan repayment)  
were significantly  different to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mrs M knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policies; 
The policies contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs M be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs M pause  for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policies wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policies were 
not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. she was eligible for their benefits and they 
provided cover that, despite their limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs M didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policies out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs M 
from taking out the policies,  Mrs M, in her circumstances,  still had some  good  reasons to 
take them out.
If Mrs M had known  she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
Ref: DRN59530218And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Ms 
circumstances and the limited other means  she had to make her repayments if she was not 
working, on balance,  I still think she would have been interested in taking  out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M would still have taken  out the policies. The policies were suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Mrs M made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policies she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs M compensation,  as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Ref: DRN59530219Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade 
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs M in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5953021