K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that Lionshead Law Ltd failed  to clearly explain the terms of a settlement to 
her before she accepted it.
background
Lionshead represented Ms H in an employment dispute. The matter reached the 
Employment Tribunal in September 2017. On the day before the hearing  Lionshead 
presented Ms H with a settlement  offer made by her former employer.
Ms H was unhappy with the amount offered. Lionshead said it told Ms H that in its 
professional opinion this was the best offer she could expect, and that her claim was unlikely 
to succeed. As the offer was time limited, Ms H felt she had no choice but to accept the 
settlement. She made it clear she did so reluctantly.
She later discovered, after contacting another solicitor, that the terms of the settlement 
prevented her bringing any further  claims against  her previous employer.
She said that the terms of her settlement werent fully explained  to her by Lionshead.  And 
she said that she wasn't told that the settlement prevented her from making any further 
claims against her former employer.
She said shed told Lionshead  that she wanted  to make a personal  injury claim against her 
former employer. She said shed  told it that shed be instructing another solicitor  for the 
personal injury claim and wanted  it to proceed  only with a claim for constructive dismissal.
Ms H provided a copy of the agreement shed entered into with Lionshead. She says this 
was only for claims going to the tribunal. She said she doesnt understand how Lionshead 
could agree a settlement for a claim it was not representing. She also said that Lionshead 
didnt send her a copy of the agreement prior to accepting the settlement. She said 
Lionshead should have  clearly explained  to her what the full impact of the settlement was.
Lionshead said that it was unaware of the personal  injury claim that Ms H was intending  to 
bring against her former employer. It was also satisfied that shed been advised of the 
impact of the settlement agreement before she consented to it.
Ms H complained to the Legal Ombudsman in January 2019. The case was passed to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) in April 2019 as part of 
the change in the regulation of CMCs.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He was satisfied that Lionshead hadnt 
been made aware of Ms Hs intention to make a personal injury claim  so he couldnt hold it 
responsible for not telling her that accepting the settlement meant  she couldnt bring a 
personal injury claim. But he felt that it should pay Ms H £150  for not sending her a copy of 
the agreement  before she had to accept it.
Ms H disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN54001062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im partially  upholding this complaint, in 
line with the approach taken by our investigator, and for the same reasons. As this complaint 
was accepted for investigation at the Legal  Ombudsman  my decision follows the Legal 
Ombudsmans scheme rules.
That means I cant look at the quality of the legal advice given. I can only look at whether 
there has been poor service given by Lionshead. And if it has, Ill look to see if that has led to 
any specific loss or disadvantage  to Ms H.
The issue  I have to consider is whether  or not Ms H was given the advice she needed to 
make an informed decision.
Ms H provided the agreement she entered into with Lionshead.  The agreement is for:
the pursuit of your employment tribunal  claims arising out of your employment  
with. 
And it sets out Lionsheads  responsibilities  under the agreement. They  include:
we will act in your best interests in pursuit  of your claims. We will discuss  each step 
of the litigation  process  with you. Advise  you on how to proceed and whether to 
accept any offer of settlement .
The agreement  doesnt define  the nature of the claims, any more  than saying they relate to 
Ms Hs employment. So I cant say from the agreement whether or not a personal injury 
claim formed  any part of Ms Hs claim  or whether or not she discussed this element with 
Lionshead.
Ms H said Lionshead  knew she was proceeding with a personal injury claim. She says she 
told Lionshead  at the first meeting that shed  had a back injury at work, and that she 
intended to use a solicitor  to pursue a personal injury claim. Lionshead says it was not aware  
of any personal injury claim, or of any accident.
Ms H has provided me with evidence that she spoke  to another  solicitor  about her personal  
injury claim in February 2017   and this has been confirmed by that solicitor. And she 
entered into the agreement with Lionshead three  months later. But this doesnt show  that 
she made Lionshead aware of her intentions. And whilst Im satisfied that she may have 
discussed taking  a claim, this doesnt  mean she would have, or that she had a reasonable 
claim. So I cant say shes  been  denied the opportunity.
I have seen the email  exchanges between  Lionshead and Ms H when the settlement 
agreement was put to her. Its clear  from that exchange that Lionshead strongly and clearly 
advised her that this was the best outcome she could expect  describing her chances of 
success as slim and the best they could hope for was a nuisance payment. So I think its 
likely that Lionsheads view was this was the best she could expect from any and all claims 
against her former employer.
But I dont  think it made this sufficiently  clear. At no point in that exchange  did Lionshead  
send a copy of the settlement agreement  to Ms H. So she had little choice but to take 
Ref: DRN54001063Lionsheads advice.  The settlement clearly states  that no further claims can be brought 
against Ms Hs previous  employer.  And if shed seen it shed have been  able to challenge 
Lionshead on that point. Ive already  explained why I dont think  shes been  denied an 
opportunity. But Lionshead should have provided  Ms H with a copy of the agreement  before 
asking her to accept it. I agree with our investigator that Lionshead  should pay Ms H £150  
for this poor service.
I know this isnt the decision Ms H was hoping for. And I can see shes not happy that 
Lionshead deny she told one of its representatives about her injury. But I can only rely on the 
evidence that I have. I appreciate she was going through a very difficult time, but I think she 
had many opportunities to let Lionshead know what her intentions  were with regard  to her 
personal injury claim.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require Lionshead Law Ltd to pay 
Ms H £150  for its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5400106