K820x#14complaint
While she was ill abroad Mrs G had a complaint about the travel  insurance linked to her 
packaged bank  account with HSBC  UK Bank Plc. She says HSBC didnt take responsibility 
for the service shed  received  under  that policy and it wasnt  clear that the emergency 
assistance service would be provided  by a different company from the insurer.  
background
Mrs G has travel insurance  linked to her HSBC  account. The insurer for the policy  is a 
company Ill call A. In November 2018 Mrs G unfortunately  fell ill while  on an extended long 
haul trip. She contacted A for assistance. Mrs G was very unhappy with the service she 
received from A and its assistance company. Shes made a separate  complaint to this 
service about A. 
While she was still abroad Mrs G contacted HSBC for help given her concern about  the 
assistance she was receiving from A. HSBC explained that it couldnt assist  her and shed 
need to contact A to complain. It paid her £100  compensation for poor service  in returning 
her calls.
Mrs G came to us. She was concerned  that HSBC wouldnt  take responsibility for the service  
shed received under a product sold and branded by HSBC. She also complained that HSBC 
provided an assistance service through a different company, which was not mentioned in the 
information provided by HSBC. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that HSBC  wasnt  responsible for 
dealing with complaints about the service  Mrs G had received under the policy. She thought  
the £100 paid for poor service was fair. Mrs G didnt  agree and referred to other policy  terms 
in support of her position. The complaints come  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive mentioned  Mrs G has also made a complaint about the travel insurance  policy 
provided by A. I will issue a decision on that complaint separately.  So my findings in this 
decision are confined to HSBC.
Having reviewed the case I find I agree with our investigators findings for broadly the same 
reasons. I think the £100 compensation paid by HSBC was reasonable and I dont require it 
to do anything more.  I will focus on what I see to be the central issues.  
HSCB is an intermediary for the travel insurance policy.  Mrs G makes  the point that her car 
insurance broker would help her with a car insurance issue.  But HSBC didnt have any 
responsibility to take up her case with A on her behalf. 
The HSBC  information  about the travel insurance does say that the insurance  is provided 
by A. And in my experience most travel insurers usually use a specialist assistance company 
to provide emergency medical assistance.  Mrs G says shed have  taken a policy  elsewhere 
if shed known this. But I think Mrs G would  have found that most travel insurers  work in this 
Ref: DRN58580692way. Importantly travel insurers including A take responsibility for the actions of its 
assistance company.
Mrs G has referred  to a section in the policy about  compensation if HSBC  cant  meet its 
liabilities. This section  is about the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme which covers 
consumers if a regulated  business cant meet its liabilities. I dont think  this means  HSBC  
had to take responsibility for As handling  of the claim. Mrs G has been able to make  a 
separate complaint about that both to A and to this service. 
Our investigator has explained  that it is open  to Mrs G to refer her concerns to the industry 
regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. The FCA doesnt report back  on individual  cases  
but will consider information it receives  to decide whether there is an issue  to investigate.
HSBC said sorry to Mrs G for not returning her calls promptly while she was abroad  and it 
paid her £100 compensation for this. I think this was a fair amount and I dont require it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5858069