K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC Bank Plc wont refund ten cash machine  withdrawals  and one 
point of sale transaction made using his debit card.   
background
Mr K opened  his HSBC  account in May 2017.  He was sent a debit card and PIN. He 
received both. Mr K didnt  use the account very often, but at the end of August 2017  the card 
details were used  to buy concert  tickets. Mr K said he didnt recognise the transaction and 
contacted HSBC. It cancelled his card and ordered  a replacement. 
HSBCs records  show that the replacement card was sent on 5 September  2017. It was 
activated by telephone two days later and then used  over the next four days to make cash  
machine withdrawals and a purchase  at a foreign  exchange business. 
On 11 September  Mr K contacted  HSBC to say he hadnt received his replacement  card.  It 
was then that he found out that it been  used to make transactions valued  at £3,250 over the 
previous few days. 
HSBC looked  into what had happened but didnt agree to refund the transactions. It said it 
had sent the replacement card to Mr Ks address and that someone had called to activate it; 
that needed security  information which only Mr K would have known. There was no 
explanation as to how anyone would  have known Mr Ks PIN, which hadnt been  replaced. 
Mr K said that he shares his house with his wife. They have  their own letter box. He 
speculated though that his cleaner might have been able to obtain  the PIN notification from 
their recycling bin, as it may have been  there for some time.  
Mr K referred the complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
broadly agreed  with HSBC and concluded that it shouldnt provide Mr K with a refund. Mr K 
asked that an ombudsman review the case  as the final stage in our process.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
First, for clarification, Im concerned here only with the card transactions made with Mr Ks 
replacement card between 7 and 10 September 2017. I havent considered  the ticket  
purchase made with Mr Ks original card and which caused him to order  the replacement. 
Nor have  I considered a later transaction when  Mr K says someone activated the sale of ISA 
units without his permission. Im dealing here only with the card payments. 
The banks records show that the genuine card,  rather than a copy  or clone of it, was used to 
make the disputed transactions. That is of course  consistent with Mr Ks case that his card 
was obtained  by someone else before he received it. Its also what Id expect where a cash 
machine is used. 
I cant rule out the possibility that someone was able to intercept Mr Ks card.  But it was sent 
to his correct address,  and I think it more likely than not that it was safely delivered.   
Ref: DRN53067102Im also satisfied that the correct PIN was used. Mr K didnt order  a replacement PIN, so the 
only PIN notification he had was the one that was sent when he opened the account.  The 
banks records show that was sent on 31 May 2017, so he would have received it in early  
June. Mr K says he didnt keep a record of it, although its possible someone  saw it before 
he threw  it away.  I think it unlikely  that someone  who had taken the trouble dishonestly to 
find and record his PIN would then wait three  months to try and use it with a replacement  
card that they couldnt have known would be required. And I note too that Mr K had never 
used his card with his PIN, so there was no opportunity for anyone  to observe it either. 
Further, the PIN isnt kept in unencrypted form on the card itself,  and I think  it unlikely that 
someone could  have guessed correctly what it was. 
I note as well that Mr Ks card had to be activated.  That needed security details (including a 
telephone passcode) that would only have been  known  to Mr K. Theres  no explanation as to 
how anyone else could  have known enough about Mr Ks security details to be able to 
activate the card, obtained his card and known his PIN. 
For these reasons, I think the most  likely explanation here is that Mr K either made  the 
transactions himself  or allowed someone  else to do so. That being so, it wouldnt be fair to 
require HSBC to refund them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc t do anything more  to resolve 
Mr Ks complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5306710