K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc treated two online transactions as pending against 
his account balance. This meant the funds available for Mr M to use were  limited.
 
background
Mr M wanted to buy an airline ticket  online.  He made two attempts to complete the purchase, 
and HSBC treated  both transactions  as pending against his account  balance. 
But the transactions werent successful and the seller didnt receive the money.  Mr Ms 
account balance  was restored within a few days, but in the meantime the funds available  for 
him to use were limited.  This meant he couldnt  try to buy the ticket again, and he said the 
banks actions had caused him considerable distress.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She wasnt  persuaded 
that the bank had done anything wrong.  It couldnt raise a dispute about the payments until 
the money had been claimed  by the seller. As Mr Ms account  balance was eventually  
restored, this wasnt necessary.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The seller  of the airline ticket didnt receive  the payments Mr M tried to make.  So I can 
understand why Mr M might consider it was unfair  for HSBC  to treat those payments as 
pending against his account  balance, and restrict the funds that were  available to him.
But from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Mr M authorised the transactions   even though it 
wasnt possible to fully complete them. 
As the transactions  were  authorised by Mr M, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to 
treat them as pending against his account. It had to try to complete the transactions, even 
though on this occasion it wasnt  possible to do so.
I can understand the frustration and distress Mr M experienced  while  the money available to 
him was limited. But from what Ive seen  Im not persuaded that the bank acted incorrectly.  
So I wont  be asking HSBC to pay compensation to Mr M.  
Ref: DRN52758612my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5275861