K820x#14complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Lifesearch  Partners Limited (LP) mis-sold her husband, Mr G, a 
mortgage protection policy  which  didnt  cover the remaining term of their mortgage.  She 
complains on behalf of her late husbands  estate.
background
LP sold Mr G a level term assurance policy in 2008 with a term of 13 years which  covered  
him during the full length of his mortgage  term (which ends in 2020). 
LP called Mr G in May 2014 to review his protection needs. He was asked a series of 
questions and Mr G told the adviser his mortgage  had another  three years to run. He was 
sent a quote for a decreasing mortgage protection  policy with a term of three years which  
reduced his monthly  premiums by about  £25 per month. Mr G said he would think it over and 
come back  to LP. In July 2014 he contacted LP and agreed to go ahead  with the new policy. 
The policy started  in October 2014 with a term of three years.
Mr G sadly passed away in 2018.  Mrs G tried to make a claim on the protection policy, 
however the policys  three year term had come  to an end in 2017. It looks  like Mr G had 
confused the mortgage  term with a three year fixed interest rate Mr and Mrs G had recently 
secured. The term of the mortgage has remained the same  and still ends in 2020. This has 
left Mrs G with an outstanding mortgage  she isnt able to pay.
Mrs G says her husband was mis-sold the new policy.  If LP hadnt called him the old policy  
would still be in place  and the mortgage  would be covered. She says Mr G probably thought 
he had to change  his policy. Mrs G also thinks the questions asked by LP could have  been  
clearer and the adviser  didnt  ask about  the final settlement of the mortgage. She says LP 
shouldnt have told her husband to cancel  the old policy. She would like LP to pay out what  
Mr Gs old policy would  have paid out or at least enough to cover  the outstanding  mortgage 
balance.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Gs complaint. He thought  the adviser had reasonably  
relied on what Mr G had told him and recommended a policy  based  on the information he 
was given. He didnt think Mr G was pressured  into buying the new policy.
Mrs G disagreed and so the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I would like to say that I sympathise with Mrs G and the situation she finds  herself in. 
She thought  her mortgage was covered if anything should happen to her husband  and when 
he suddenly and unexpectedly passed away  she had to learn  that he had changed the policy  
and that her mortgage wouldnt  be paid off as planned. I understand this must  have come as 
a shock during an already difficult time and I really feel sorry for Mrs G and understand how 
upsetting this must be for her.
However, having looked at everything I dont  think LP made  a mistake here and so it 
wouldnt be fair to hold them responsible for what happened.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN54141592Ive listened to the calls Mr G had with LP in 2014. In May 2014,  LP phoned Mr G to check 
whether the policy  he had bought  through them in 2008 was still suitable  for his 
circumstances. The adviser told Mr G that his existing policy offered a level benefit of 
£50,000 and had a seven  year term left on it. He then asked Mr G several  questions  about 
his current circumstances.  He asked whether Mr G still had a mortgage and when Mr G 
confirmed he had, the adviser  asked him how  many years  have you got left on the 
mortgage. Mr G said three years without hesitation. After establishing that it was only 
really the mortgage  that needed covering, decreasing cover for three years was 
recommended which  reduced costs  and based on the information provided  by Mr G was 
suitable for him.
I think the questions  asked by LP were clear.  I appreciate that Mr G obviously confused his 
fixed rate period with his mortgage term. But this wouldnt have been evident  to the adviser.  
Mr G sounded confident about  the years left on his mortgage, even though  he was just told 
his previous policy had seven years  left on it. So I dont think  the adviser  would have had 
any reason to doubt that or ask further questions.  I think  it was reasonable for him to rely on 
the information Mr G gave him. 
I dont think calling Mr G was inappropriate.  LP didnt imply in any way that Mr G had to 
change the policy.  They simply offered  him different cover for less money. Mr G didnt accept  
the cover  straight  away. He told the adviser  he wanted to think  it over and a quote was sent 
to him by email. Mr G didnt  call back until two months later, so I think he had enough time to 
reflect and Im satisfied  he made  a choice to proceed without pressure from LP. 
Mrs G said LP shouldnt have told Mr G to cancel the old policy. But this is usual practice. 
Keeping two policies for the same  purpose  would leave people  over insured and so Id 
expect LP to tell customers  to cancel their old policy when replacing it with a new one.
In every call Mr G had with LP it was repeated that the cover was for three  years. And the 
quote sent to him in May and again  in July 2014  also confirmed that the cover was for three 
years only.  So Mr G had sufficient opportunity to double check  whether this cover was right 
for him before he proceeded. And even once the cover had started he could  have cancelled  
it at any point.
Mrs G also mentioned that LP didnt contact Mr G again after the policy  expired.  If they had 
done, he would have noticed his mistake.  I do understand Mrs Gs argument, but LP wasnt 
obliged to review  Mr Gs cover when it expired and bearing in mind their records  would have 
shown Mr Gs mortgage coming to an end at the same time as the policy,  there was no 
apparent need  for a review anyway.
In summary,  I think LP sold Mr G a suitable  policy based on the information  they were  given. 
Mr G made  an unfortunate mistake  which I understand  can happen. But it wouldnt be fair to 
hold LP responsible for this. 
Ref: DRN54141593my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G, on behalf 
of Mr Gs estate,  to accept or reject  my decision before 12 April 2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5414159