K821x#15complaint
Ms B says Tesco Personal Finance  plc mis-sold  her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by post in 2000 at the same time as 
Ms B applied for the card.  It gave  her up to 12 months accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Tesco disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed it 
here.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think if Tesco had given  Ms B better information about the policys costs  and benefit, she 
wouldnt have taken  it out. The information  Tesco gave Ms B wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. In the PPI section on her credit card application form there was no information  on the cost 
of the policy. In her credit  agreement she was told the cost was 70p per £100 of outstanding 
balance, but Tesco doesnt seem to have explained  that the premium would be added to Ms Bs 
credit card balance and could attract interest. And it didnt point out that the benefit was actually 
less than 10% in real terms,  as Ms B would have to continue  paying the premium while  receiving 
the policy benefit.
I think this would have  mattered to Ms B. Shes told us at the point  of sale she was entitled to at 
least 12 months sick pay. She also had some savings. So, she doesnt appear to have had a 
strong need for the policy,  given the benefit  it paid out and the other  ways  she had to meet the 
credit card repayments without it. 
Tesco argues  that this level of sick pay is extremely generous and its not plausible. Whilst I 
agree that its not a common benefit,  Ms B had been in her role for 25 years and she worked for 
a large organisation, so I think her recollection  is credible and plausible.  Its not unreasonable  
that she cant provide  supporting documentation given how long ago the sale was. Tesco  has 
also questioned  her savings but I am satisfied  her sick pay alone demonstrates  she had little 
need for the policy so I will comment no further  on this.  
This means  I think  its unlikely that if Ms B had been given enough information to fully understand 
the value of the policy to her, she would have bought it. It follows I think shes lost out because of 
what Tesco  did wrong.
putting things right
Tesco should put Ms B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt already been, and:
Ref: DRN51150172A.Tesco should find out how much Ms B would owe on her credit  card if the policy  hadnt been  
added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest  added to those charges.
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Ms B owes  and what she wouldve 
owed.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Tesco  can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes  her. Likewise,  if Tesco has already refunded  any of the PPI 
premiums it can take off this amount from what it owes her.
B.If, when  Tesco works  out what Ms B would have owed  each  month without PPI, Ms B paid 
more than enough to clear  her balance, Tesco should also pay simple  interest  on the extra  
Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point  when Ms B wouldve owed 
Tesco something on her credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.Tesco should tell Ms B what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest.  Tesco must give Ms B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  Ms Bs complaint.  Tesco Personal Finance plc must pay Ms B 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5115017