K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a hire purchase  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2000. Miss M says AXA France IARD  (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I havent set out that detailed  
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Ms 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Miss M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out. I say this because to get the cover Miss M had to apply her signature to a box 
on the application form. The box is signed  on Miss Ms form. And Miss M had to sign the 
form elsewhere on the form to get the credit. So, if Miss M hadnt wanted  the cover, she 
could have left the PPI section blank and just signed for the credit. 
AXA and Miss M agree that the policy was sold without advice. So, AXA didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable  for her. But it did have to give Miss M enough  
clear and timely information  so she could decide  for herself it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss M. Miss M told us she 
Ref: DRN56009282had some sick pay she could have relied on but that it lasted for six months  at her full 
rate of pay. The PPI could have paid out in addition to Miss Ms sick pay and for longer 
than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay. Miss M told us she had 
some death  in service  benefits at work, but this wouldnt have helped  her if she was too 
ill to work  or lost her job. Miss M told us she would have been entitled to a payment in 
the event she was made redundant. Considering  the shortness of Miss Ms tenure in her 
job (2 years), any such payment was likely to be modest. And the policy  would have 
reduced her reliance on that payment in the event  she lost her job. And whilst Miss M 
told us she had some savings she could use to make her repayments  in the event of 
long-term ill health, or if she lost her job, these too were relatively modest  in nature. 
Although Miss M says she had a medical condition some time before the policy  was 
taken out, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion 
wouldve caused her to change her mind about  taking out the policy. I say this because 
Miss M told us she had back problems in 1987 which  caused  her to see her doctor and 
take some  non-prescription painkillers. But Miss M told us that at that time it had cost her 
no time off work and Miss M has provided  no detailed testimony about the condition  and 
no testimony that it had caused her ongoing issues or any significant  time off work in the 
intervening years before the sale,  such that she may have thought this to be the main 
reason she might need to be off work. It also looks like the cover  was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  Because of this I 
dont think Miss M would have declined  the cover had AXA done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Miss Ms circumstances  at the time of sale and 
despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons  to 
take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss M would  have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Miss Ms representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN56009283my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Miss Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2021 .
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5600928