K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited wont  pay her travel insurance  
claim. My references to Admiral include its agents.
Mrs F will see that my decision  is about  a business with a slightly  different  name  to the 
business our adjudicator  corresponded about.  Admiral is the insurer of the policy and the 
correct business  for my decision to be about. It has agreed to the change of business.  The 
change hasnt affected the outcome of my decision.
 
My references to Admiral  include its agents.
background
On 19 March 2018 Mrs F bought an annual multi-trip policy for herself through  a comparison 
website. She selected the start date of the policy  as 20 March  2018 which  was the date she 
and her husband, who Ill refer to as Mr F, were due to go on holiday. Unfortunately, on 
19 March Mr F became ill and was taken to hospital. The trip had to be cancelled due to his 
illness.
Admiral wouldnt pay the claim. It said the policy cover started on 20 March so the 
cancellation claim wasnt covered.
Mrs F complained to us, represented by her daughter. She says the policy  should cover  the 
period of travel and irrespective of when Mr F fell ill they were  unable to travel. She wants 
Admiral to pay the claim.
Our adjudicator thought Admiral had fairly  declined the claim.
Mrs F disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said the reason anyone  bought  a 
policy was to cover the period of travel  and queried why anyone would take out cover  before 
their holiday  was due to start. She said she should be insured against not being able to 
travel which was the case on 20 March.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs F but I dont uphold this complaint.
I need to decide whether Admiral fairly and reasonably declined the cancellation claim, and 
I think it did. Ill explain why. 
For Mrs F to be covered for cancellation,  insurance  cover needs to be in place for the day 
the event causing the cancellation  took place. Mr F fell ill on 19 March and it was his illness  
that caused the cancellation. Mrs F bought the policy on 19 March but she selected  the 
cover to start on 20 March. That meant there was no insurance cover  for the relevant date, 
19 March.
Ref: DRN56721222Mrs F has asked why anyone would take out cover before  their holiday was due to start.  
People arrange for insurance cover  to start before the start of their holiday so that they are 
covered for cancellation due to an event  leading up to the holiday. 
Admiral needed  to be clear about  when the cancellation cover started under the policy, and it 
was clear.
Ive seen the screen shots of the sale process for the policy. Where  Mrs F had to select  the 
type of policy the information says:
An annual multi trip policy  is purchased  on an annual basis and will commence from your 
selected start date.  During the term of the policy, you are able to travel  multiple times to your 
selected destination(s) over the course  of the year with the cover starting and finishing in the 
UK.
You will not be eligible  for cancellation cover  if you need to claim prior to your policy start 
date.
Also, the policy document said under the important information section:
Cancellation cover
This policy covers you if you have to cancel  your trip before it starts
Annual multi-trip  cancellation  cover  starts  from the time you book your trip or the first day 
of cover (as shown on your policy schedule),  whichever is later.
Mrs F's policy schedule shows the first date of cover  as 20 March 2018.
There was no insurance cover for 19 March, the date of the event causing the cancellation.  
Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in declining  the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5672122