K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  is about  the home  insurance policy they had with Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA). They are unhappy RSA voided (cancelled as though it had 
never existed) the policy from the November 2017  renewal because  it believes the property 
was unoccupied and, had it known,  it wouldnt have renewed the policy. As it has made this 
decision, the claim for an escape of water  in March 2018 hasnt been settled because the 
policy wouldnt have been in place to provide cover for the event.
background
Mr C arranged home insurance with RSA,  via a broker, in 2012.  At the time he was asked  
the following  question:
Is the property occupied daily solely by you and your family for private  residential  purposes  
and not left unoccupied  for more  than 60 consecutive  days? 
This question was designed to establish  that not only would the property not be left empty  for 
long periods of time, but also that it was lived in on a daily basis,  i.e. a main  residence, 
rather than holiday or weekend residence.  Mr C answered yes which appears to have been  
an accurate answer  at the time.
The policy schedule in 2012 set out a list of statements that were based on the questions 
Mr C had been asked  at application and the answers hed given - usually referred  to as the 
statement of fact.   One of these statements  was:
The property will be occupied for private residential  use and occupied daily and not left 
unoccupied for more  than 60 consecutive days. 
The policy renewed  several times and importantly in November 2017.  In order for this to 
happen Mr C was sent a renewal pack in September 2017. The covering letter, which  
enclosed that years policy schedule and set out the terms of the policy for the next year, 
asked Mr C to ensure the policy  still offered  the right cover  for him. It also included the 
following:
Information and changes we need  to know about   Buildings and/or Contents  
insurance
You must take reasonable care to provide complete and accurate answers to the questions  
we ask when you take out, make changes to and renew your policy.
Please tell us if there are any changes to the information set out in the statement of fact or 
on your Schedule of Insurance. You must also tell us promptly about any of the following 
changes which occur during the period of cover.

if your property is to be unoccupied  for any continuous period exceeding 60 days,
RSA has confirmed that a statement of facts  was not included among the documents sent to 
Mr C in September 2017. Having reviewed the 2012  welcome pack and all the renewal 
packs in between, it appears  that the statement  of fact was only sent to Mr C in 2012.
Ref: DRN51993952In 2016 Mrs C wrote to the local council and informed it that from 24 August 2016 the 
property would be empty as, due to a job relocation,  the family  was moving. She continued 
by explaining that they intended to decorate  the property and rent it out in the following 
couple of months.  
Mr and Mrs C both removed themselves from the electoral role for the town  where  the 
insured property is and registered where they moved to. They  also cancelled their television  
licence for the address.
In 2017 the council asked  for an update about  the occupancy status of the property. 
Mr and Mrs C again confirmed that the property  was empty and had been  for the last twelve 
months.
In March 2018 a pipe in the property burst. A large  quantity of water  escaped causing 
damage throughout the property. Mr and Mrs C made a claim to RSA for the damage.  RSA 
arranged for a firm of loss adjusters to attend the property  and a drying contractor  to start 
reducing the water levels in the property. Due to the number of claims made  around  that 
time the loss adjuster didnt attend  immediately, by which  time the drying company had 
written off the white goods and cleared and stripped out parts  of the property  to allow  drying 
to start.  
In the early part of May 2018 the loss adjusters became concerned about the occupancy 
status of the property at the time of the escape  of water. It then asked Mr and Mrs C for 
information about their use of the property. It also asked for documentation and information 
from the brokers that had arranged  the policy and dealt with the renewals.
Mr and Mrs C provided information about council tax, utility  bills (many of which were 
estimated) and photographs which they believe evidenced their use of the insured property. 
In addition, they provided bank statements showing use of their account in the area of the 
insured property. These included evidence of Mrs Cs hairdressers appointments near the 
property on 13 January, 11 February and 16 March 2018. The drying process was put on 
hold in June 2018 while RSA continued to look into the occupancy  issue.
Throughout our investigation and RSAs  Mr and Mrs C provided  information about their 
circumstances too. They  said that Mrs C hadnt  moved out in late 2016 as they had told the 
council, but rather  she had remained in the home  and had simply visited the remainder of 
the family  in their London address. This had been the case for the first six months  of the 
arrangement, when she began to spend more time in London. They  also explained that the 
reason for the move was not due to employment, but rather  a situation within  their family, 
which I will not detail here as both parties  are aware  of the details. Mr and Mrs C say they 
went home at least alternative  weekends  and used the property during university 
holidays/half-terms. They  also explained  that they didnt have a television licence because 
they were spending  their time outdoors, reading or decorating. They  confirmed that at no 
point had the property been  unoccupied  for 60 days.
Subsequently Mr and Mrs C provided  photographs of their gas and electricity meters.  These 
showed that between 10 August 2017  and 4 November 2017  they used 6 cubic metres  (66.8  
KWH) of gas and 3.8 KWH of electricity.  Between 4 November 2017  and 17 January 2018 
they used 118 cubic metres (1,314 KWH) of gas and 14.8 KWH of electricity.
It took some time for RSA to investigate the issue of occupancy  and consider  the evidence  it 
had obtained and had been  given. It was not until 18 February  2019  that RSA declined the 
Ref: DRN51993953claim and voided  the insurance policy back to the 2017  renewal.  Its reason for declining the 
claim was because the property was no longer occupied for private residential use. Had it 
known this at renewal in 2017 it wouldnt have agreed to the policy renewing and so there 
would have been no policy for the claim to be made under. Shortly thereafter RSA asked 
Mr and Mrs C to pay back the money they had received from it and that it had spent out in 
dealing with the claim.
Mr and Mrs C complained, however,  RSA maintained its position and rejected the complaint. 
It was referred to this service for consideration. 
During our investigation RSA provided  us with its underwriting criteria. This showed that it 
would not have insured the property  had it known the property was a weekend,  holiday or 
second home. It also evidenced  that properties  that would be unoccupied  for more than 60 
days in a year would not be insured.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She 
didnt consider RSA had evidenced the property  had been unoccupied for more  than 60 days  
in a row. She recommended the policy be reinstated and the claim reconsidered. Any record 
of the voidance should be removed  from any internal or external databases. RSA didnt 
accept the investigators  conclusions  and so the complaint  has been referred to me for 
consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA voided Mr and Mrs Cs policy because  the house wasnt  being  occupied in the manner 
it had been told it would  be when the policy was taken out. An empty  property or one that is 
empty most of the time is a very different risk to one lived in daily.  Based on its underwriting 
criteria, RSA isnt willing  to offer the policy Mr and Mrs C had for properties that arent 
occupied daily. Insurers are also entitled  to restrict what applications they are willing to 
accept based  on the risks they represent; this applies  at renewal too.
However, this is a consumer contract. In very basic terms,  it means that if an insurer  wants  
to know something,  it has to ask a clear question. At the time of the sale, it did ask such  a 
question  was the house going to be lived in on a daily basis. Mr C confirmed it would be 
and that appears  to have been  a correct answer. However, that answer ceased to be correct 
when Mr and Mrs C moved  out of the property in August 2016. 
If RSA wanted at any point to check the previous answers Mr C had given when he took out 
the policy it needed to ask a clear question or provide them with a statement  of fact and ask 
them to check the information contained in it. It didnt do that. Whilst it asked they check  the 
information in the statement of fact, the only time I can see that it provided  a copy of the 
statement of fact was in 2012. A consumer cant be expected to keep that document and 
reference it as late as 2017. So whilst the property was no longer being used on a daily 
basis as a home, as Mr and Mrs C werent asked if it was, they cant be deemed to have 
misrepresented their use of the property. RSA should not have voided the policy  because  it 
was no longer used  for private residential use.
Ref: DRN51993954The only matter RSA did highlight  as having  to be confirmed to it in 2017 was whether the 
property would be unoccupied for any continuous period exceeding 60 days. As such, I need 
to consider whether Mr and Mrs C should have told RSA this would be the case. 
Having looked  at Mr and Mrs Cs bank statements and receipts,  it is clear  they did at times 
go to the town  the insured house is located  in. In particular I note that Mrs C had 
hairdressing appointments in that town on a regular basis  including in January, February and 
March 2018. Given that town  is around  130 miles from where Mr and Mrs C were  living  at 
the time and the journey  would have taken several hours, it seems unlikely that Mrs C would 
have done the return trip in one day. They have said Mrs C stayed in the property when she 
went for her hair appointments  and I see no reason  to question that fact. So it would appear 
that the property  was stayed in overnight, with the associated activities this involves, at least 
on a monthly basis and was not unoccupied  for a period exceeding 60 days. 
Overall, whilst the property was clearly not being used in the manner RSA believed  it was 
and Im not sure the utilities would indicate the property was being used as much as 
Mr and Mrs C have indicated, I dont think the information RSA requested at the renewal 
would reasonably have elicited that information.  Nor do I think that Mr and Mrs C needed to 
tell RSA of any changes based  on the list RSA used. As such, I dont consider RSA should 
have voided Mr and Mrs Cs policy when  it did. 
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In settlement of this complaint 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should reinstate Mr and Mrs Cs insurance  policy  and 
reconsider the claim. When the policy  is reinstated,  all reference  to the voidance should be 
removed from any internal or external  databases.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5199395