K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about a decreasing term assurance policy they took out with 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G). They are unhappy that premiums  
continued to be taken for the policy even though the mortgage  the policy was taken out to 
protect was redeemed in 2000.
background
In 1996 Mr and Mrs P were taking  out a mortgage  to facilitate a business venture. The 
mortgage was for £120,000 repayable over a period of twenty  five years.  It was granted  to 
them by a lender I will refer to as Business  A. Because of other protection  Mr and Mrs P 
already had in place  only £85,000 of this new borrowing was left unprotected. So they were 
sold a decreasing term assurance  policy for £85,000 for a term of twenty five years.
In 2000 Mr and Mrs P redeemed this mortgage in full. They  have said that because  they 
made it clear  at the time of the sale that they would be paying off substantial  amounts of the 
mortgage at the early  stages and the fact they redeemed the mortgage  early L&G should 
have realised they no longer needed the policy after it was redeemed and should  have 
cancelled it.
They feel that because  Business A acted as a representative of L&G, L&G should  have  
known the policy ceases to have any value  for them when the mortgage was redeemed. 
They also feel that no provision was included in the paperwork  when they took the policy  to 
take account of the fact they intended to pay off the mortgage early.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. She felt the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs P and that it wasnt reasonable for 
L&G to have known  they didnt want the policy after they had redreamed  the mortgage. She 
stated the policy was still of use even though the borrowing had been paid and that unless 
L&G had been  specifically told to cancel the policy this wouldnt have happened as this was 
the responsibility of Mr and Mrs P.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree with the assessment and remained of the view L&G should have 
known they didnt want the policy after the mortgage had been redeemed. They also 
commented that while the investigator  stated the policy was suitable for them this stopped 
being the case after 2000 when they redeemed the mortgage. They also reiterated  their 
point that as Business A acted as a representative  for L&G there should have been some  
communication between  the two about their mortgage arrangements  and they think  the 
extent of the agency agreement between the two businesses  should be investigated further.
Theyre also unhappy that L&G didnt send them annual statements so they could be 
informed of exactly how much they had paid in to the policy  on a yearly basis.
The investigator considered their comments but wasnt  persuaded to change her initial  
outcome. So as no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that the 
complaint cant be upheld.
Ref: DRN58573392The crux of the matter  is that Mr and Mrs P think  there was a link between  Business A and 
L&G to the point that when the mortgage was redeemed Business A should have let L&G 
know they had no need for the policy. This isnt however how these  types of arrangements  
work when  a policy isnt a condition of the lending, as is the case  here.
The two departments in Business A and L&G involved  in this transaction  are not intrinsically 
linked. These departments wouldnt  be kept updated  with the details of individual clients and 
changes in their lending arrangements. So its unreasonable to expect  L&G to have known 
Mr and Mrs P had redeemed their mortgage when they did and expect L&G to cancel the 
policy or contact Mr and Mrs P about the policy at that time.
Upon redemption of the mortgage  it was Mr and Mrs Ps responsibility  alone to reassess 
their protection needs and cancel the policy if they wished. No other business, unless 
directed explicitly by a policy holder, can make that decision and especially  when  a valuable 
life insurance policy  is concerned.
I know Mr and Mrs P say the policy wasnt suitable for them after they redeemed  the 
mortgage but this isnt true. The main  reason  they took the policy was taken to protect  the 
borrowing and once  that borrowing no longer exists it is true it appears that the policys main  
purpose has ceased to exist. But the policy was still a life protection policy which  would have 
paid out if claimed  upon. So because of its valuable nature  only Mr and Mrs P could make 
the decision that they no longer wanted it. A business cannot take it upon themselves to 
decide a life protection policy is no longer needed  by a policy holder.
I know Mr and Mrs P think they should  have  been  provided with annual  statements from 
L&G but this isnt normal practice  with life protection policies. Some  policy  providers may 
provide annual statements but it certainly isnt a usual  contractual term that the business is 
obliged to adhere to.
In summary  while I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling  on the matter it is simply 
unreasonable for them to have expected L&G to know  when  they redeemed  the mortgage  
and for L&G to decide the life protection policy Mr and Mrs P took out four years earlier 
wasnt needed by them any longer.  This responsibility wholly fell on Mr and Mrs P and if they 
wanted to cancel the policy they should have  confirmed  this with L&G themselves. 
Im therefore  of the view L&G legitimately  continued  to collect  the premiums for the policy 
because it wasnt instructed by Mr and Mrs P the policy holders to do anything different.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5857339