K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that his with-profits  plan with The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) unexplainably decreased  in value just before it was due to mature. 
background
Mr A held a with-profits mortgage endowment plan with Prudential that matured in 
April 2019. He says he had been regularly  checking the value of his policy through 
Prudentials online platform and was shocked  to discover that its maturity  value had 
decreased by around £1,270 it was very close to maturity.  
Mr A complained to Prudential as he wanted  an explanation as to why the maturity value had 
decreased and where this money  had gone.  He was also unhappy  that Prudential  did not 
respond to his requests for clarification.  
Prudential explained  that 2018 had been  a difficult year for the financial  markets, with growth 
slowing through  the year and many  markets seeing  negative returns.  They said this caused 
the fund to make a net loss of 2.2%  in 2018,  which led to a reduction in the terminal  bonus 
and was why his investment decreased in value before maturity. 
Prudential said that they historically update  the value of the fund at the same  time each year,  
which can lead to growth or a reduction in the value of the plan, so they did not uphold  this 
element of Mr As complaint. However, they did acknowledge  that the service they had 
provided had been  poor,  so they offered  £100  compensation in recognition  of the distress 
and inconvenience  this had caused.
Mr A remained unsatisfied  with this explanation and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She considered Prudentials explanation to be 
sufficient and explained that the terminal bonus was never guaranteed, so she didnt think 
the fall in value of Mr As fund was something Prudential ought  to be held liable for. Mr A 
disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Mr A says that Prudential  have not offered a satisfactory explanation for the fall in value of 
his investment. Theyve said that growth in major markets slowed in 2018,  which  was one of 
the main factors for the reduction in the terminal bonus. However,  he wants  to know what  the 
other factors were that caused the value  to fall, as well as where or who his £1270 has gone 
to.
I think its important to point out that this isnt money  that has been taken away  from Mr As 
plan or redistributed. This is because it was a prospective value which  Prudential  wouldve 
anticipated they could achieve  with the terminal bonus (in other  words,  it was an estimate).  It 
was never  money  that was in his plan all along that has been clawed back at the last 
moment; it is just that the anticipated  value  wasnt  achieved. So I dont consider it to be the 
case that £1,270 has gone  missing and that Prudential ought to explain where  it has gone. 
Ref: DRN52668442A share of Mr As plans final value would have  been  accounted for by the terminal bonus. 
But whereas  annual bonuses are guaranteed  the terminal bonus  was not. So Prudential  are 
not obligated to pay this and I can see that theyve made this clear  to Mr A. In terms of the 
factors that caused the bonus to fall. Prudential  have  explained  that the volatility of the 
financial markets in 2018 led to the with-profits fund making a net loss of 2.2%  in 2018 
(which is information that can be found  on their website). I appreciate they may not have 
gone into a great amount of detail  about  all the other various factors that can affect  a bonus. 
But this can depend  on a number of things,  such as the cost of the insurance  business, as 
well the need  to smooth bonuses from year to year (where some  of the profits  are held back  
during good years to boost the profits during  the bad years to avoid any drastic fluctuations).
The reality  is that bonuses are typically arrived at using a variety of factors and formulae that 
are calculated by an actuary.  And the actuaries  will decide how much  of the funds profits  are 
paid as a bonus and how much will be kept in reserve  to help with smoothing as explained 
above. But I wouldnt have expected  prudential to have disclosed complex or detailed  
breakdowns of their actuarial calculations to Mr A. So I think it was reasonable enough for 
them to explain that adverse investment conditions had been the predominant reason for the 
fall in value.
Prudential have also offered an explanation for the reason why the value of Mr As fund 
dropped so close to its maturity after a period of steady growth. Theyve explained that there 
was an interim bonus that was implemented on 25 November 2018 for quotes effective from 
1 January 2019  so theyve said that all the values Mr A listed in his complaint  on 
28 May 2019 wouldve taken this into account. 
However, in terms of the terminal  bonus, the rate changes  were implemented on 
24 February 2019 and became effective from 1 April 2019. Prudential  have  explained that 
this impacted the projected maturity and surrender  value quotes for plans with a maturity 
date on or after 1 April 2019. The implementation  of the bonus  from 1 April 2019 had the 
effect of reducing  the maturity and surrender value available from that date.
Given that Mr As plan matured a few days after 1 April 2019  and taking into account the 
adverse market conditions and the funds 2.2% net loss in 2018  I consider that Prudential 
have provided  a satisfactory explanation  for the decrease  in value seen in Mr As final 
maturity value. And Mr A hasnt provided any evidence to contradict Prudentials  explanation 
or to demonstrate that this was not the case. So in the circumstances,  I will not be asking 
them to do anything further.
In terms of the poor service he received, I can see that Mr A was unable to speak to 
Prudential when he called them  on 5 April 2019,  and that they had failed to respond to his 
emails. However, I can see that theyve  apologised for this and have paid £100 
compensation to recognise the distress  and inconvenience this may have caused,  which  I 
consider to be fair compensation in the circumstances. 
Finally, Mr A has also said that he thinks his policy was mis-sold. But given that it was not 
sold by Prudential, Im afraid  this is not something I can consider as part of this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN52668443Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5266844