K822xcomplaint
Ms Cs complaint is, in the main, that Orwell Securities (Ipswich) Limited (Orwell):
Provided limited and poor investment  advice  in relation to her portfolio. [issue 1]
Mishandled the transfer of her Beaufort holdings unto the Transact platform. [issue  2]
Provided incomplete information to her accountant. [issue  3]
Negligently exceeded her Capital Gains Tax (CGT)  limit for the 2017/2018 tax year. 
[issue 4]
background 
Ms C says she appointed  an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) from Orwell in November 
2017 and that she sought financial  planning/advice  in the context  of Brexit. She says she 
formally terminated the IFAs appointment in October 2018. Her complaint to Orwell was not 
upheld. She rejected its goodwill  offer of £500  and considered it grossly inadequate.  Ms C 
says the complaint issues are, in summary, about the following:
Issue 1 is about the IFAs failure to diversify her portfolio (especially a particular fund 
in her General  Investment Account (GIA)) and his delay in investing cash in her 
pension portfolio. It is also about the six month portfolio review being ill prepared.
Issue 2 is about the IFAs delay, until 28 December 2017, in initiating the transfer 
process, about his failure to maintain progress in the process despite awareness  of 
Beaufort being at risk at the time and about the overall delay  in the transfer  process 
(which was completed after around  nine months). It is also about the IFAs advice to 
retain £30,000 in cash  with Beaufort from December 2017, had she not withdrawn 
the cash, on her own initiative, in January 2018  it would  have been  trapped in the 
administration process that Beaufort underwent. The IFA did not inform  her about a 
registration date related  to the administration process,  but she found out through 
other means and met the deadline.
Issue 3 is about the IFA failing to provide her accountant with the complete set of 
paperwork related  to her investments on the Transact platform  and related to the 
2017/2018 tax year, despite  the full paperwork having been given to him by Transact.
Issue 4 is about the IFAs mismanagement of her portfolio causing  sales which 
generated gains  around £2,300 beyond her nil rate CGT allowance for 2017/2018.
In the main,  Orwell says:
Brexit had nothing  to do with its appointment. Ms C sought to consolidate her 
investments under  one investment wrapper, to use an investment platform for this 
purpose and to gain the benefit  of completing her annual tax reporting through  one 
mechanism rather than through  different  companies. This was the objective  it was 
appointed to address. Moving  Ms Cs portfolio to the Transact platform was done to 
also provide her with a regular  income  in the future  taken from capital withdrawals 
which would be subject to CGT that was at a lower rate than income  tax.
With regards to issue 1, the relevant GIA fund was already reasonably diversified, it 
matched the balanced part of Ms Cs risk profile, it had good historic performance  
and it had a significant  gain that had accumulated  since the initial  investment. The 
IFA had no significant concerns  about the fund as it was and took the view that, 
mindful of the gains,  the fund could  be reduced more tax efficiently and over time 
through ISA contributions and income withdrawals for Ms C. With regards to the 
pension portfolio a similar  view applied,  to reduce  it over time using Ms Cs 20% tax 
Ref: DRN59811582band and the tax free cash  she had to take before losing the ability  to do so on her 
75th birthday (Ms C was 69 years old). The IFA did not see an advantage in 
maintaining the portfolio long term. The idea of making cash withdrawals from the 
portfolio was the rationale behind retaining cash, as opposed to reinvesting  it.
With regards to issue 2, it first became aware  of the closure of Beaufort by the 
regulator in March 2018, through press articles; prior to this, press  commentary  in 
2017 was limited to concerns about  illiquid  and non-mainstream investments in 
Beaufort portfolios,  this was irrelevant to Ms C as her (relatively  liquid) investments 
were in listed UK companies  and Investment Trusts; there  is evidence  of the 
administrators writing to all known creditors and clients of Beauforts in April 2018 
about the administration process; it prioritised the transfer  of other assets  ahead  of 
the Beaufort portfolio but that was reasonable because the former were  larger  than 
the latter; it approached the transfers in this order; Transact was engaged in chasing 
progress in the transfer process  and in updating  Orwell  in this respect so it did not 
need to be chased;  eventually Ms Cs Beaufort assets were transferred at full value; 
the delay was caused by Beaufort and not Orwell.
It did nothing wrong  in issue 3 and engaged meaningfully with Ms Cs accountant  
with whom it had a longstanding relationship for over 30 years.  It sent the Transact 
tax report for 2017/2018 to the accountant  in October 2018, upon her request.
With regards to issue 4, generation of income subject to CGT that was lower  than 
income tax was the rationale for recommending the withdrawal of capital gains. It 
stands by this rationale and considers  it was reasonable.
Its offer of £500, without admission of liability,  was a gesture of goodwill in 
recognition of Ms Cs experience in the Beaufort transfer  matter.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and broadly agreed with Orwells positions 
on the complaint  issues. He referred to Orwells suitability letter as record of Ms Cs 
objectives and its recommendations. He did not consider Orwells strategy for the GIA fund 
to be unreasonable and whilst he understood that the pension  portfolios cash could have 
been invested over the short term he could understand why retention  of cash  was a suitable 
alternative that avoided the risks of its value  being  eroded by charges and falls in investment 
value.
The investigator considered that all the transfers  had to be completed  before Orwell could 
provide any further  review/reinvestment advice and that its advisory service   based on the 
client agreement  did not require it to monitor Ms Cs assets on an ongoing basis but only to 
provide initial advice and then advice  during  periodic  reviews. He also did not consider that 
six month review document was ill prepared or that Orwell failed to engage with Ms Cs 
accountant. 
The investigator said available  evidence shows that Beaufort was mainly responsible for the 
transfer delay.  He considered that Orwells goodwill offer catered for a minor administrative 
error on its part. He noted  Ms Cs point about the £30,000 holding  in the portfolio but took 
the view that no loss resulted in this respect. He took the same view in relation to the 
registration date issue, whilst noting the complaint about Orwell not informing Ms C about 
this date he considered that she learnt  about  it in any case and met the relevant deadline. 
The investigator also considered that Orwells CGT related  strategy for Ms C was not 
unreasonable and that its suitability letter to her gave notice of the possibility of exceeding 
her nil rate CGT allowance.
Ms C disagreed with this outcome  and the matter  was referred  to an ombudsman.  She 
repeated her key points  and mainly stressed the following:
Ref: DRN59811583She was pressured  by Orwell to transfer her investments unto the Transact platform.  
She did not initiate  the idea of such a transfer  and she maintains that the context for 
the advice she sought was Brexit.
Orwell did not properly oversee the Beaufort transfer, it caused an initial  delay in the 
process of around six weeks (in total) during which it was inactive  and the £30,000 in 
cash was not needed  for any transaction so it should have been addressed by Orwell 
at the time. Orwell also did not have proper oversight of her investments on the 
Transact platform, as she expected  it to have,  and there is a lack of evidence that it 
monitored the investments on the platform. Lack of monitoring resulted in 
underperformance (and losses) in her assets which went unaddressed at the time. 
Orwell did not fully utilise her ISA allowance  in March 2018.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his mind. He retained the view that Orwells 
goodwill offer was a reasonable  conclusion to the complaint. He repeated his previous views  
in response to the points made  by Ms C and, with regards  to ISA allowance  issue,  he noted 
evidence that her 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 ISA allowances had been fully used prior to 
Orwells appointment and that it advised on the use of her 2018/2019 allowance but this 
never progressed  because Ms C terminated  its appointment before the end of that tax year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. In addition to issues  1 to 4, as 
summarised above, I consider the ISA allowance issue to be issue 5. I also confirm that I 
have considered the documents  recently  submitted (or re-submitted) by Ms C and her 
covering email.
Issue 1
I understand the points Ms C has made in relation to oversight  and, it appears,  monitoring of 
the investments  transferred unto the platform. However, I consider that the investigator  
addressed this point  meaningfully.  The crux of the matter appears to be a mismatch  between  
the expectation Ms C had from the IFA and the type of service agreed between  her and 
Orwell. As the adjudicator  said, the advisory  service that was agreed between  both parties  
did not extend to the sort of ongoing monitoring and oversight, of the platform  and the assets 
within it, that Ms C appears  to have expected. The advisory service  featured the initial  advice 
which, as evidenced  by the suitability  letter, Ms C received in late 2017 and subsequent 
periodic reviews. There is evidence of the six month  review that took place in 2018  which, 
based on available evidence, I do not consider to have been lacking  and it appears that Ms 
Cs termination of Orwells  appointment in October  that year rendered subsequent reviews  
redundant.
The suitability letter of November  2017  captures the initial advice and the circumstances 
surrounding it. I consider  that Ms Cs reference  to a Brexit context is sincere  and this could 
have been a matter that was on her mind  at the time,  but the suitability letter  which was sent 
to her, and which she does not appear  to have disputed at the time,  does not feature it. In 
the absence of evidence that Ms C disputed this letter at the time, I consider its contents 
reliable. If those contents were inaccurate  it is more likely (than not) that she would  have 
disputed the letter and there  would  be evidence of such dispute.
Ref: DRN59811584The focal  point of the initial advice, as expressed within the suitability letter, was the transfer 
of Ms Cs investments  with, it appears, the exception  of her pension   to the Transact 
platform. The IFA explained that, following completion of the transfer(s),  Orwell would then 
look further into the actual investments themselves. In this context and as of 2017  and until 
the investments  were  all transferred  Orwell was not yet responsible for the detailed review, 
revision and/or reinvestment based  advice  (with  regards to specific funds and their 
underlying investments) that Ms C might have expected.
The letter also includes  the matter of Ms C taking income from her portfolio through  capital 
withdrawals, with the plan being to benefit from the nil rate CGT tax allowance and then, 
beyond that, to benefit from significantly  lower  CGT treatment as opposed to higher income 
tax treatment. It also includes the recommendation to use the tax free cash  from her pension 
and to take further income from the pension in the future.  The wider  CGT strategy that 
Orwell has explained to this service is also reflected in the letter.
Overall, I do not consider  that Orwells initial advice mismatched Ms Cs objective  or her 
balanced to adventurous  risk profile.  It was not intended  to commence and complete the 
financial planning task in one measure. It was the beginning of a mid to long term process  
that started  with the transfer(s), that was to follow with arrangements  to draw  income  from 
the investments  in a tax efficient way and then, after completion  of the transfer(s), was to 
follow with a further review(s) to look into the investments that had been transferred.
Like the investigator, I do not consider that Orwells  interim strategies for the specific  GIA 
fund and the pension portfolio were unreasonable. It did not consider the GIA fund to be 
unsuitable at the time  or to be sufficiently of concern to review  and reinvest it at the time. 
Having considered the fund, I do not disagree.  If Ms C disagrees,  the point remains that the 
recommendation she agreed  with was to prioritise the transfer(s) and then, after completion, 
review the investments, so she was not led to expect an immediate and/or comprehensive 
review. I am not persuaded that the interim  measure   to reduce  the funds gains in a tax 
efficient manner over time (or, as it appears, until the post-transfer review  of the 
investments)  was unreasonable.
I draw  a similar conclusion in relation to the pension portfolio. As the investigator said,  short  
term investment of the cash  within it could have been an alternative but it was not 
unreasonable for Orwell to prefer the retention  of cash  for short term cash  withdrawal 
purposes  as opposed to taking the risks of eroding the value of that cash  by investing it.
Issue 2
Orwell was appointed in November 2017. There is evidence that, as it says, it prioritised 
initiating the transfer of Ms Cs larger assets before it initiated the Beaufort portfolio transfer 
in late December that year. 
There is evidence from Transact   and from correspondence between  Transact  and Orwell  
which shows that Transact engaged in the progression of the transfer from early January 
2018 onwards  and kept Orwell informed. The same  evidence suggests that the overall 
responsibility for the delay in completing  the transfer belonged to Beaufort. I have used the 
word suggests only to reflect that this service  does not appear to have received 
submissions directly from Beaufort on the matter. However, there  is evidence  of a 
chronology of the transfer process from Transact which  provides a persuasive basis to 
conclude that Beaufort caused  the delay.
Ref: DRN59811585It was not unreasonable for Orwell  to prioritise transfer of larger  assets ahead of the smaller  
Beaufort portfolio.  The delay  was not significant. Its contribution to the overall delay  in the 
matter was minimal and, I consider, is catered for within Orwells goodwill offer.  I consider 
the same  with regards  to the minor administrative error that the investigator  noted. Available 
evidence does not suggest  that Orwell needed to chase Transact in the matter, Transact 
appears to have been engaged in chasing  Beaufort and it also kept Orwell updated. I do not 
consider that there is evidence to show there was a role for Orwell to play in addressing the 
delay in 2018 or, if there was such a role, how it would have made a difference  to the matter.
With regards to the £30,000 cash holding  in the portfolio and the administration  related 
registration date issue, I agree  with the investigators conclusion  that neither matter  resulted 
in a loss to Ms C, so I consider  neither   individually or jointly   to be a sufficient basis  for 
compensation. For any trouble and upset Ms C considers to have  been  caused in these 
matters, perhaps in principle, Orwells goodwill offer caters for that too. I note Ms Cs point 
about prior knowledge  Orwell had or should  have had about  the problems in Beaufort. 
However, there is insufficient  evidence to establish  her case in this respect. Orwell says it 
learnt about the problem in March 2018  and that previously the concern about Beaufort 
portfolios in the press was arguably irrelevant to Ms Cs portfolio. I have not seen enough to 
defeat this submission. In addition, Beauforts  problems  caused a delay to the transfer of Ms 
Cs assets but they do not appear  to have caused a loss in those assets.
Issue 3
I have not seen enough evidence to establish  a wrongdoing by Orwell in this matter. 
Evidence suggests that it had a longstanding and good working relationship  with Ms Cs 
accountant and the implication appears  to be that it had a history  of engaging with that 
particular accountant  for the purpose of sharing  information relevant to their mutual clients 
investments. So Orwell appears to have been  experienced  in doing this and in doing this 
well. I have not seen  evidence that its engagement  with the accountant for Ms Cs benefit 
was problematic.  It also appears to have shared the Transact tax report with the accountant 
upon her request.
Issue 4
The crux of this issue is the CGT strategy Orwell recommended for Ms Cs portfolio. As I 
said above, it was a reasonable strategy in the circumstances  of the initial advice and at 
least until the detailed  investments review  that was to take place after completion of the 
transfer(s) of the investments. As the investigator  noted, the suitability letter  issued to Ms C 
gave her prior notice  that some CGT  could be incurred from gains that exceeded the nil rate 
CGT allowance. The rationale of reducing  the gains  in a tax efficient manner over time,  
doing so to generate income  for Ms C and doing  so at the expense of CGT  as opposed to 
income tax (which would  have been  higher) was not unreasonable.
Issue 5
This service has evidence of the sale and re-purchase (a re-purchase  within  Ms Cs Stocks 
and Shares ISA) of the same assets in Ms Cs portfolio  between  10 and 18 April 2017 which 
was in the value of £20,000. The repurchase, in this value, within her ISA appears  to have 
utilised her full ISA allowance for the 2017/2018 year as Orwell has submitted. It appears 
that there  was no spare ISA allowance to use in March 2018.
Ref: DRN59811586my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I endorse the offer, from Orwell Securities (Ipswich) Limited to 
Ms C, of £500. It reflects the trouble  and upset caused to her by the delay  in initiating the 
Beaufort portfolio  transfer and the other  related issues noted above.  I do not uphold Ms Cs 
complaint about  the overall delay  in that transfer  or about the other  complaint  issues  she has 
presented.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5981158