K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds decision to cancel his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr W bought a car insurance  policy through a broker. The underwriter of the policy was CIS. 
In May 2018  CIS contacted Mr W. It checked data recorded on a telematics box which was 
fitted to Mr Ws car as a condition of his insurance.  CIS said this appeared to show  Mr W 
wasnt staying overnight at the address  hed given. CIS asked Mr W to confirm  his address 
in the next seven days. 
CIS didnt  hear from Mr W. So in June 2018 it cancelled  Mr Ws policy. It gave Mr W seven 
days notice before it carried out the cancellation.  
In June 2018 Mr W contacted CIS and complained. He said he received  CISs email but 
because he hadnt  changed address, he didnt reply. He was very unhappy that his policy  
had been cancelled. Mr W said he didnt  receive  CISs cancellation  notice or confirmation  
so he said hed been unknowingly driving uninsured. He only realised  there was a problem 
when CIS emailed him to say it had refunded  part of the premium he paid back  to his 
account.
CIS said it cancelled his policy correctly. 
In July 2018 Mr W asked  us to look at his complaint. He told us that as a result of the 
cancellation, he was unable to afford to buy a new policy  as the premium was too expensive. 
He said this was because he declared the cancellation by CIS while  looking for quotes.
In August  2018  our investigator initially  thought CIS hadnt acted reasonably.  He thought  it 
hadnt done enough to warn Mr W of the significance of not replying to the email in May 
2018. And because  Mr W was home overnight most nights, he didnt think it was fair that CIS 
had cancelled his policy for this reason. So he recommended  CIS do the following:
Reinstate the policy on the original  terms cost and length remaining as long
as Mr W continues to pay his premiums.
Refund any cancellation fee charged  on the policy  or in relation to the telematics 
box.
Remove the cancellation  notice from Mr Ws insurance record.
Pay him £250.00 for the distress and upset caused in having no insurance.
Mr W accepted the investigators findings. CIS didnt  agree. It said Mr W didnt reply to its 
request for information. And as it issued a seven  day cancellation warning, it acted 
reasonably by giving Mr W an opportunity to reply and prevent the cancellation  from taking 
place. CIS said its reason  for cancelling Mr Ws policy was because  he didnt co-operate   
and not because of the telematics data.  It said if Mr W had contacted it before it cancelled 
his policy, it would have  further investigated the data and CIS wouldnt have cancelled his 
policy. CIS said it was for this reason that it immediately offered him a new policy.
In September  2018 Mr W provided a copy of his P45 as he said he lost his job due to not 
being able to drive  to work. He also told us that he didnt receive CISs email  in May 2018.
Ref: DRN52418392CIS provided  a screenshot to show it emailed the cancellation  notice on 24 May 2018 to 
Mr W. It said it also sent it by post. 
Our investigator asked  CIS if it had recorded  the cancellation on its internal and external 
databases. It said it hadnt recorded it on an external database  as it was prepared to offer 
Mr W a new insurance  policy. CIS agreed  it could  provide a letter  to Mr W to say he doesnt 
need to disclose the cancellation to future insurers. 
Mr W said if CIS had told him this when it cancelled  his policy,  this would have made a big 
difference to the insurance available  to him and what he could afford.  He said the difference 
in declaring the cancellation was significant. Mr W said he didnt want to buy a new policy 
with CIS as he didnt  agree with its cancellation  decision.
Our investigator sent an updated view to both parties. He thought CIS was entitled to ask 
Mr W about his address because the telematics data had flagged that his car was at a 
different postcode the majority of the time  but that the data wasnt time specific.
As CIS had shown  it emailed Mr W in May 2018  and had sent its cancellation notice by 
email and post on 24 May 2018,  he thought CIS had carried  out its cancellation in a fair way. 
But he thought  CIS should have told Mr W that he didnt need to declare the cancellation in 
future. Because  it didnt,  this affected Mr Ws ability to buy car insurance elsewhere as the 
cancellation meant the premium he was quoted was unaffordable.  So the investigator 
recommended CIS pay Mr W £250 compensation to reflect the inconvenience  and distress 
CIS had caused  Mr W. He felt this was important information which CIS should have told 
Mr W- and it led to him not being able to afford to insure his car. 
Mr W was happy with the investigators recommendations to put things right. CIS didnt 
agree. It says this isnt what  Mr W complained about. And we accept that CIS cancelled the 
policy fairly because  Mr W didnt co-operate. 
CIS would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has sent us further recording data from the telematics box which he asked  CIS to 
provide  and this shows that Mr W returned  to his home address most nights. Because CIS 
relied on data initially  snapshotted by a third party which appeared to show Mr Ws car was 
at a different  postcode to his more often - it was this data that prompted CIS to contact 
Mr W.
The full data showed Mr W was at home  overnight  but the times of when he returned home 
varied. I can understand why the situation  Mr W finds himself  in feels  unfair.  I think  if the 
data had been correctly reviewed, it seems CIS would have had no cause to contact Mr W  
as the full data showed  he was operating within the terms of his policy.  Mr Ws policy  doesnt  
say he should  be home by midnight  in order to show this is his overnight  address.
Ref: DRN52418393CIS accept  this as it says it offered Mr W a new policy after he contacted it- because  this 
wasnt the reason  why it cancelled his policy. But it doesnt seem fair that CIS relied on 
limited data which started a chain  of events that led to Mr Ws policy  being  cancelled. 
CIS has reiterated that the reason why it cancelled Mr Ws policy  was because  he didnt co-
operate. But I dont  think  CIS clearly explained  the reason why it cancelled Mr Ws policy.  Its 
cancellation notice  dated 24 May 2018 said that it intended to cancel Mr Ws policy due to a 
discrepancy in their records. So I think this refers  to the data it relied on. 
If the reason for cancellation was due to Mr Ws failure to co-operate,  I think  CIS should 
have given this as the reason in the cancellation  notice. Its email to Mr W on 1 May 2018 
didnt warn him that if he fails to reply,  his policy may cancel. CIS asked Mr W to provide 
details about his address within seven days.
According to CISs  notes,  Mr W said he received the email. But as his address hadnt  
changed, he didnt  reply. I can understand why  at this stage  Mr W might not have 
appreciated the significance of not replying.  
CIS said it sent Mr W a cancellation notice  by email and post - and a cancellation 
confirmation letter by post. Mr W said he didnt receive these letters.  He said he received an 
email from CIS after the cancellation date which said it had refunded part of his premium  to 
his account. It was this email that prompted  him to contact CIS.
Mr Ws policy with CIS says it can write  to his last known address to give him notice  of 
cancellation and provides  a list of reasons why. One of the reasons say:
Failure to provide  information or documentation  requested by us, or failure to 
provide a satisfactory response to any reasonable request for assistance  in 
administering the policy or dealing with any claim.
So although  Mr W said he didnt receive CISs  letters, Im satisfied from the copies Ive seen 
that they were  sent. And I think  CIS correctly followed  the cancellation process here.  
CIS said that Mr W didnt complain that he couldnt afford car insurance elsewhere as a 
result of declaring the cancellation. So it doesnt  believe this is a complaint we should make 
a finding on. But Mr W complained that CIS unfairly  cancelled his policy.  So I think  its fair 
and reasonable for us to look at whether CIS correctly followed its cancellation process as 
part of that complaint. 
In its cancellation  notice dated  24 May 2018,  CIS told Mr W that he must  inform any future 
insurer that CIS cancelled  his policy.
Most insurers ask a question about previous cancellation  in particular whether an insurer  
cancelled a policy previously. Mr W is a young  driver. As our investigator explained, we 
know that having a cancellation  by an insurer recorded against  a customer will have a 
significant impact on the risk an insurer applies  to that customer. This in turn will have an 
impact on the availability  of insurer on the market   and the price Mr W pays.  
CIS said that weve agreed that it correctly cancelled  Mr Ws policy  for failing to co-operate. 
It says its cancellation  notice was correct. It was after CIS accepted  Mr Ws explanation  
after his policy cancelled - that it didnt take the cancellation into account when offering him a 
new quote. 
Ref: DRN52418394CIS says it doesnt understand why Mr W declined its offer of a new policy  when it didnt 
include the cancellation  and instead chose to look for alternative cover  and declare  the 
cancellation to other  insurers  - if this would be more expensive. 
Mr W explained that because he was unhappy with CISs decision to cancel his policy in the 
first place, he didnt want to buy a new policy with it.
Mr W didnt reply to CISs request for information  about the address he was staying at 
overnight. But I think CIS could have been  clearer in its communication  with Mr W and about 
the reason why it cancelled Mr Ws policy. And I think  it should have let Mr W know that he 
no longer needed to declare the cancellation   as its letter dated 24 May 2018 read. 
And so I dont think its a fair outcome that Mr W should have had to declare  the cancellation 
of his policy by CIS to other insurers. And because CIS agreed not to record  the 
cancellation, I think Mr W should have  been able to access the market  to look for alternative 
cover without having to declare the cancellation.  Mr W didnt know he didnt need to declare 
the cancellation to other  insurers  unless CIS told him. It didnt. So I think CIS has been 
unreasonable to Mr W. 
So for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by CIS, I think it should  compensate  Mr W by 
paying him £250. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require CIS General Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr W £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused in failing 
to tell Mr W he no longer needed to declare  the cancellation to future insurers. 
CIS General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5241839