K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Theres only limited information  about Mr Ss mortgage. None of the paperwork from the 
original sale is available  and HSBC couldnt  confirm  how the mortgage or PPI was sold.  But 
the banks records  show that Mr S had a PPI policy that started in April 1996  that provided  
cover for his mortgage.  The policy protected his monthly repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment if Mr S couldnt  work. 
Our adjudicator assessed Mr Ss complaint on the basis  of all the information available  but 
didnt find enough  evidence to uphold his complaint. Mr S mainly says that his sick pay and 
savings meant that he didnt need PPI. He also said that if the costs  and benefits  had been 
explained, and hed known it was optional, then he wouldve declined the policy.
As Mr S disagrees with our adjudicators view his complaint comes to me to make  a final 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I dont know how HSBC  wouldve presented PPI to Mr S or explained  it to him during any 
discussions. But I wouldnt expect  HSBC to keep records indefinitely. And it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  Mr S to remember exactly what, if anything, he was told when he took 
out PPI as the sale happened so long ago. So I cant just rely on what  Mr S says. I have to 
look at everything and decide  what I think is most likely.
In order to uphold  Mr Ss complaint Id have to find that its likely  he wasnt  given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added  to the mortgage account without his consent. 
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that HSBC  didnt  make  it 
clear that it was open to Mr S not to choose PPI if he didnt want  to have it. The mortgage  
was a major  financial commitment, due to run for a number  of years.  His home wouldve 
been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see why Mr S 
mightve felt PPI was useful to have. I can completely understand  why Mr S mightve  
forgotten this now. But, on balance, I think its more likely that Mr S decided he wanted  to 
have the benefits the policy could offer and it was added to his account when he decided to 
buy the policy. 
As I dont know exactly what was said about the PPI its not clear whether HSBC mightve 
advised Mr S to take out the policy. But I dont need to make  a decision about this because it 
doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for him based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time.  
Mr S was eligible for the PPI policy and met the requirements to have the cover. 
Ref: DRN52295262Mr S has told us he wouldve received generous sick pay from his employer and he had 
other means  to make the repayments if he couldnt work. Ive thought carefully about 
everything Mr S told us. But Im not persuaded that he couldnt have benefitted from the PPI 
if hed needed  to claim or that his circumstances  meant he didnt need  it. Heres why I say 
this.
Mr S was entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months  half pay. The policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay for up to 12 months per claim.  As hed have  
been on half pay only after 6 months off work I think that couldve been a useful benefit  at a 
difficult time  especially  if he faced extra costs as a result of being ill or disabled.  
Ive taken into account that Mr S had a five figure  amount of savings. But I dont know  if he 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make  a claim. Repeat  claims were 
possible giving Mr S long term protection for his mortgage while  he was paying  for his home. 
Having PPI meant Mr S could keep his savings intact to provide financial security for the 
future. 
So, looking  at Mr Ss circumstances  at the time, I think the PPI was suitable. 
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected Mr S. So, 
I dont think more information about  the policy exclusions  and limitations wouldve made any 
difference to Mr Ss decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr S when he bought  the policy. But, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that he couldnt  afford the monthly premiums. Mr S was solely 
responsible for paying his mortgage.  Given the serious consequences of defaulting on a 
debt secured on his home, I think its likely that he wouldve appreciated the peace of mind 
the cover  gave him (even  if hes forgotten now).  
Its possible that HSBC  mightnt have  given Mr S clear information about all aspects of the 
PPI. But I think Mr S chose to take out the insurance and I can see why he mightve  thought 
it could be useful. Taking all his circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the 
way HSBC sold him the policy,  I dont think that better information wouldve put Mr S off 
having it. 
This means  HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
HSBC UK Bank Plc got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr S about that. Because HSBC  UK Bank Plc 
didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBC UK Bank Plc has paid back  the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN52295263 my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5229526