K820x#13complaint
Mr U complains Canada Square Operations Limited  mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on his behalf  by his wife, who Ill refer to 
as Mrs U.
background
This complaint is about an Egg credit card PPI policy taken out in April 2000.  The policy was 
added to Mr Us credit card account  when  he applied for the card online.  
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr U disagreed. 
His representative said, on his behalf  and in summary, that:
Mr U was entitled to sick pay from his employer of six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay. When Mr U did become ill, his employer  actually paid him full pay for 
nine months, followed  by three months half pay.
Mr U had a critical illness policy which was in place before 2000 and paid out until Mr U 
reached the age of 60.
Mr and Mrs U had joint savings, although Mrs U cant  recall how much.  Shes provided 
some evidence of what they held in 2004.
They  accept that Mr U did tick the box to say he wanted  PPI; but the bank shouldve  told 
him he didnt need  it. In Mr Us other PPI complaint which was investigated by this 
service, we concluded that the bank had a duty to point that out.
It wasnt  made clear  the PPI was a separate product.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Us complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Us complaint because:
 I think  Canada Square  Operations made Mr U aware that the PPI was optional and a 
separate product  from the credit card, and that he chose  to take it. I say this because 
the online application  process  included  equally  clear options to accept or decline the 
PPI and Mr U clicked the yes box to confirm that he wanted it. 
 Canada Square  Operations didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr U so it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable  for him. Mrs U has emailed  us some wording from a different 
decision made by this service. But in that case the sale was a personal 
recommendation to Mr U so the bank had a duty to check that it was suitable for him. 
In the circumstances of this sale, the bank wasnt under  that same  obligation  to 
consider Mr Us circumstances.  Mr U knew  what protection he already had in place  
and it was up to him to decide if he wanted  the PPI in addition  to his existing 
arrangements.
Ref: DRN54796962 Its possible  the information Canada Square Operations  gave Mr U about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Mr U chose to take out the policy  and so 
appears to have  wanted this type of cover.  He was not affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced  and apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr U would have made a different decision if better 
information had been  provided.  On balance I think he would still have taken out the 
policy.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Lloyds doesnt  need to refund everything  
Mr U paid for it. But Lloyds has offered to give Mr U back  some of the cost of the PPI, and 
I understand it has already paid this to him. I dont  think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5479696