K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about poor service from Santander  UK plc when she closed  her joint 
account. 
background
Ms M held a joint account with her ex-husband. He failed  to clear the overdraft on the 
account in line with the terms  of a court order, so Ms M used her own money  to do so.
She then asked Santander to close the account, but said she didnt want any 
correspondence to go to her ex-husband.
Santander sent a letter confirming the account  closure to Ms M. But it also ordered a closing 
statement, which was sent to Ms Ms ex-husband. The statement didnt include Ms Ms 
address, but it did show her name   which  shed  changed since  her divorce.
Santander accepted that some of its service  couldve been better, and paid Ms M £100. 
Our adjudicator thought that was fair. She acknowledged the very difficult circumstances Ms 
M had been in. But she didnt find that Santander  had known about the severity of the 
situation until after Ms M had cleared the overdraft and closed the account. The adjudicator  
also considered  it likely that Ms Ms ex-husband knew shed changed her name before the 
statement with her new name had been sent to him.
Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has clearly experienced great difficulty in paying off the overdraft so that the account 
could be closed. Shes also told us she spoke to Santander on numerous  occasions and had 
to explain that the court  order meant it shouldve been her ex-husband who was paying off 
the debt. 
In Ms Ms particular circumstances, I can see why she might think Santander  shouldve  
realised that she was in a vulnerable position in relation to her ex-husband. Im sympathetic 
to her view.  But as the adjudicator has explained,  its difficult for the bank to take particular 
action unless it is given  specific details about  the issues  between the parties.  
I can understand why Ms M didnt want to give those details to Santander. But from what  Ive 
seen I dont think the bank knew how serious  the situation was before the overdraft was 
cleared and the account closed.
When Ms M spoke to Santander in May 2018, she shouldve been told that the closing 
statement would also be sent to her ex-husband, because he was still a joint account holder. 
Santander failed  to do that, and paid £100  to Ms M in recognition  that its service couldve 
been better.
Ref: DRN56110602The closing statement Ms Ms ex-husband received showed Ms Ms new name.  But having 
listened to Ms Ms calls with Santander,  it seems likely her ex-husband knew  about her new 
name before the statement was sent.  The statement  didnt include details of Ms Ms 
address.
So in the circumstances, I think the compensation Santander paid Ms M was fair and 
reasonable.
I appreciate Ms M considers Santanders systems  should  be improved to protect customers 
in situations similar to hers. Again, I can understand the point shes making. But as the 
adjudicator has explained,  its beyond the remit of this service to interfere with the banks 
processes to identify  and assist vulnerable customers.
I realise my decision is unlikely to be the outcome Ms M was hoping  for, but I hope  she will 
understand how Ive reached my conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5611060