K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a payment she says she 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
what happened
On 6 October 2017, someone booked a holiday with a travel  agent in Miss B and her 
partners name, including flights and a hotel.  They used Miss Bs genuine name, address, 
date of birth, and email.
The travel agency  left Miss B an email and voicemail asking her to verify the booking,  and 
someone phoned them back.  They completed a security check using Miss Bs billing 
address, card type, card number, and card security code. They  paid for the holiday using 
Miss Bs card details.  The agency sent Miss B another  email  to confirm the booking.
Following this, it looks like Miss B cancelled her card, but didnt tell Barclays about any 
potential fraud. According  to the merchants records, Miss B then phoned them  to say that 
she meant to book a trip to a less expensive destination. Then the same person phoned 
again shortly afterwards to say that the booking was actually made by a family member who 
was conspiring to get her into debt. The merchant said theyd done  a security check  and 
confirmed Miss B was the lead guest. They transferred  her to their customer  services to see 
if she could amend the booking, and the record  of the call ends there.
On 11 October 2017, Barclays  wrote  to Miss B. They noticed that the holiday had been 
booked shortly before shed cancelled her card, and wanted to double-check whether the 
transaction was genuine. They asked Miss B to let them  know  in the next 21 days  if the 
transaction was fraudulent, otherwise theyd debit it as normal. Miss B didnt reply, so they 
debited the payment on 6 November 2017.
On 10 November 2017, Miss B reported  the transaction as fraudulent.  She said she was in 
possession of her card at the time but didnt make  the payment. Barclays sent Miss B a form 
to sign to start a fraud investigation,  but she never returned it.
Then in February  2019, Miss B complained to our service. She explained she kept her card 
in her phone case, which  was kept with her or at home. The only people with access  to her 
phone were herself or her young children,  who she let use it sometimes for games. She lived 
with her partner and children, though her partner was not home  at the time as he was 
hospitalised. No one else had access to her property.  She last had her card at a shop and 
had lost it since then.  She said she noticed  it was missing when she next went  to the shops, 
so she cancelled it. Then she logged into her online banking and noticed the payment to the 
travel agency.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought  it was most likely Miss B had 
authorised the payment. She noted  that the booking  had been made using Miss Bs genuine 
personal and card details,  with confirmation sent to Miss Bs genuine email address. If an 
unknown thief had stolen Miss Bs card, she couldnt  see how theyd know Miss Bs personal 
and contact details.  And she didnt see a likely  reason why someone would fraudulently book 
a holiday for Miss B and her partner.  She noted  that Miss B had checked  her online banking 
during the booking process and afterwards,  and that Barclays had contacted  her to check 
whether the payment was genuine, yet she hadnt told the bank anything  was wrong until a 
month afterwards.
Ref: DRN57539452Miss B didnt agree. She said she never  got Barclays letters, didnt pay for a trip to that 
destination, and was certain shed never  let anyone have her card details. The complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Broadly, Barclays can hold Miss B liable  for the payment in dispute if she authorised  it, or 
gave someone else permission to make  it.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, it looks like the payment  used Miss Bs genuine card and 
personal details.  This is not enough, on its own, for Barclays to hold Miss B liable. So I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its most likely Miss B consented to 
the transaction in dispute, or not. And having  carefully considered everything that both sides  
have said and provided, I think its most likely  that she did. Ill explain why.
If an unknown thief had stolen Miss Bs card after she used it at the shop, I dont see a likely  
way theyd have  known her personal  and contact details. And I cant  see why an unknown 
thief would  use the stolen  card to book a holiday  for Miss B and her partner, rather than 
making any transactions for the thiefs own benefit. So I dont think its plausible that an 
unknown party did this.
It is possible that someone known to Miss B may have made the transaction without her 
permission. But I dont  think its likely.
The only people with access  to Miss Bs phone or property were  her partner and children. 
Her partner  was in hospital at the time,  so he wasnt present. And I dont  think  its likely that 
her children would  be able to, and be inclined to, impersonate Miss B and successfully 
commit card fraud in order to book  a holiday for her.
Miss B appears to have accused  a family  member  in her call to the travel agency. But if that 
call was made by Miss B, then it looks like just beforehand she also told the agency that it 
was her that made  the booking,  but that she just meant to book a cheaper destination. So 
Miss Bs testimony would  be contradictory.  And shes  not mentioned this family member  
again. Further, as I explained above, I dont think its likely that someone  would commit fraud  
just to book Miss B and her partner  a holiday.
Miss B seems  to have been aware  of the payment long before she reported it to Barclays.  
She was checking  her online  banking both during the booking process and afterwards. She 
also received the booking  information at the same email address shes  been  using to speak 
to our service. And according to the merchant, she spoke to them  about changing the 
booking to a different destination at the time.  It seems  unlikely  that Miss B would wait a 
month to report the disputed payment  if it was made  without her consent.
Ref: DRN57539453Further, Barclays wrote  to Miss B to check if there  was anything wrong with this payment, 
but she didnt  respond.  And when  they sent her forms to start a fraud investigation,  she 
didnt return them. Im satisfied Barclays sent these letters  to the correct  address, and its 
very unlikely  that they both went missing. And Miss B waited another  15 months to bring up 
the matter again.  Again,  if this payment was fraudulent, its difficult  to see why Miss B didnt  
address it at the time.
This transaction was ultimately  for Miss B and her partners benefit  in order  to use the 
flights and hotel, the person would need  to be able to identify themselves as Miss B and her 
partner based  on their passports. Its not likely that anyone else would be able to benefit  
from this booking. And Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem  implausible or unlikely 
that Miss B couldve authorised this payment  or given someone else permission to make it.
In summary,  there isnt a plausible or likely  way that an unknown  person did this, and its 
unlikely that someone  known  to Miss B did this without her permission. But it does seem 
likely and plausible that this transaction was made with Miss Bs consent.  So I think  thats 
whats most likely  to have happened  here. This is a difficult message for me to give,  and 
I know its a difficult message for Miss B to receive.  But given the evidence I have, and the 
balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based  on everything Ive seen, I think its most likely that this payment was made with 
Miss Bs permission, and so I do not require Barclays to refund it on the basis of it being  
unauthorised. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5753945