K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Capital One (Europe) plc sent him a new credit card and didnt tell him why.
background
In 2018 Capital One sent Mr F a new credit  card to replace  his old one. Both cards ended  
with the same four numbers, and so Mr F became concerned that a fraud might be being 
committed. He phoned  Capital One to ask why he had been sent a new card,  and nobody  
could tell him (although they were  able to confirm that Capital One had indeed sent the 
card). Before the card arrived, Mr F had received a text message which said a letter would 
soon be sent to him, but the letter never  arrived. He complained, and Capital One sent him a 
letter explaining  that it had sent him a new card as a precaution  against  fraud.  Mr F did not 
accept that explanation, and he brought this complaint to our Service.  He also complained 
that Capital Ones  call handler had been  rude to him on the phone.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Capital One had sent Mr F an 
email explaining that the replacement card had been  sent as a precaution against fraud. 
That card had a new expiry date and a new CVV number. Call recordings were not available 
(although call notes  were provided), so she made  no finding  about whether anyone had 
been rude to Mr F. Being dissatisfied with that opinion,  Mr F asked for an ombudsman to 
review his case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital Ones system notes say that Capital One sent Mr F an email on 16 November. 
The email  is formatted like a letter (dated the day before), so this may be the letter the text 
message referred  to, although it was not sent in the mail. It is headed (in block  capitals)  a 
new card is on its way and then it goes  on to say this:
We often  receive  information  from Mastercard and Visa that helps us improve our 
security. On this occasion, the safest thing to do was to send a new card(s) out to 
you. It's on its way, and should arrive within a week.
On the next page, it said:
Mastercard and Visa tell us when they believe an account could be at risk of fraud. 
They send us the card details but we are not given any further details. When  we 
receive this information we send  customers a new card just to be safe.  We have 
taken the decision  to send  you a new card in order to protect you from fraud occurring.
I think that is a reasonable explanation, since  credit  card issuers have a duty to keep  their 
customers accounts safe. Later, after Mr F had complained, Capital One said this in its final 
response letter, dated 17 December:
We received information from MasterCard  advising that certain card details had 
been compromised, at which  point they advised us to issue out a new card to those  
customers. We do not get told where the compromise has come from  We 
appreciate how frustrating this must be, but we've taken this step to protect  you 
against fraud.
Ref: DRN53955462I think that is a clear and sufficient explanation.  So even if Mr F did not receive the email  (if it 
went into his junk folder,  for example),  he was still given a full explanation before he 
contacted our Service. So I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint about that issue.
In that same  letter, Capital One went on to add that it had terminated  a phone  call with Mr C 
because he had been abusive  to its staff. So both parties have made allegations of rudeness 
against each other.  I do not have enough evidence to fairly determine what was said in the 
calls, and so I make  no findings  about this issue. It follows  that I cannot uphold  Mr Fs 
complaint about  that matter either.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
My final decision concludes this Services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5395546