K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy at the quality of repairs undertaken  at her home by Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited following  her home  insurance  claim  for damage caused by an escape of 
water from her washing machine. 
background
Mrs C has had her home insurance  policy with Lloyds since 2012. In April 2018  she made a 
claim following a leak from her washing  machine that damaged her laminate flooring and the 
end panel and plinths in her kitchen. Lloyds appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage.  It 
advised Lloyds  that the claim  was to be accepted and that the laminate flooring needed to be 
lifted and replaced  as did the kitchen  end panels  and plinths.
The surveyor appointed  a third party contractor to carry out the works booked  to be 
undertaken in mid-July 2018. When the contractors arrived  their time keeping and 
productivity were poor.  Initially part of the floor was laid incorrectly  so had to be lifted and re-
laid. Then, when the edging  was installed it was cut incorrectly. And the contractors left 
Mrs Cs home and garden in a mess.  
Mrs C contacted the contractor to get the surveyor back  to inspect the work thatd been 
carried out. Whilst Mrs C was away for her birthday weekend the surveyor  contacted her and 
apologised for the state of her house  and garden  and said hed get someone round to lift 
and re-lay the flooring.  This time the flooring was laid correctly. 
Mrs C complained to Lloyds about the quality of the repairs and the inconvenience shed 
been put to. She also said the first contractor had taken her key and had kept it for a while 
before returning  it. She said this had caused her additional distress  because,  having been  
burgled previously,  she was worried  about being  burgled again if a stranger had her key and 
particularly so given  she had complained about  the workmanship of the contractor that now 
had her key. Finally Mrs C complained that she had no confidence in the durability of the 
floor given it was picked up and re-laid three times.  She said she wanted Lloyds to pay for 
her to purchase a new floor. 
Lloyds looked  into Mrs Cs complaint and accepted that thered been shortcomings in the 
service itd provided to Mrs C and the quality of the repairs that had been undertaken. It paid 
for her to have her locks changed and it offered her compensation of £150 for the 
inconvenience shed  suffered. It also said it had spoken to its contractor and confirmed  that 
the workmen associated  with her claim had been  relieved of their duties as a result of their 
workmanship, general time keeping and overall  trade. It said that as stated in her policy 
terms, all repair work  undertaken by its contractors was guaranteed  for a minimum of 12 
months. 
Mrs C didnt think that Lloyds had investigated  her complaint properly and she felt its offer of 
compensation was insufficient in the circumstances. So she complained  to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Cs complaint but didnt  recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought Lloyds had dealt  with Mrs Cs concerns fairly and reasonably and noted that shed 
also been refunded her £100 policy excess. 
Mrs C disagreed with out investigators findings. She said the repeated  lifting  and re-laying of 
the floor weakened  the tongue part of the board. And she said her alarm cable had been 
Ref: DRN54664342damaged by the contractors and, although  it got fixed, it took a separate  visit to do so which 
caused her further  inconvenience. Finally she said the contractor only refunded her excess  
payment when she threatened to start a chargeback through  her credit card company. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any upset that it causes  
Mrs C I dont think that her complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I have to decide whether Lloyds has treated Mrs C fairly and reasonably  in the way it has 
dealt with her complaint.  I think that it has. Lloyds has admitted that there were shortcomings 
in its service and in the quality of the repairs undertaken by its contractors.  So thats not in 
dispute. Having  accepted  that to be the case, Lloyds offered Mrs C some  compensation and 
took steps to address her other concerns. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
I accept, as does Lloyds, the inconvenience and anxiety caused by the contractor running off 
with Mrs Cs key. Lloyds  took Mrs Cs concerns seriously and arranged  for her locks  to be 
replaced. 
When Mrs C rightly drew  the poor workmanship  to Lloyds' attention,  it sent a different  
contractor round to rectify the errors  with the repairs and to make  sure that the floor was 
correctly laid in the end. I accept that there was an issue with the alarm cable and that it had 
to be moved. I am sure a further visit to do so was an inconvenience  Mrs C could have done 
without and I take that into account below when assessing whether fair compensation has 
been offered.  
Mrs C says she has no confidence  in the durability of the floor. In response  to her complaint 
to this service Lloyds said that if Mrs C provided an independent report  which  confirmed that 
to be the case  then its claims department would happily reassess  her claim. Ive not seen 
any such report but the offer stands and if Mrs C remains  of the same view and wants to get 
an independent report then she should  send it to Lloyds  in the first instance  so it can assess  
any recommendations. If she were unhappy with Lloyds decision then Mrs C could raise a 
further complaint  but it seems fair to me for Lloyds  to be given  the opportunity to consider 
any evidence Mrs C has about  the floors durability in the first instance. It wouldnt be fair for 
me now, without any independent documentary  evidence  to support what Mrs C says about 
the weakness of her floor and general potential lack of durability, to make a finding  about, or 
uphold, this aspect  of her complaint.  
Lloyds offered to pay Mrs C compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused by the poor handling of her claim.  Mrs C doesnt think this was enough in the 
circumstances. I cant  ignore though that she did also have her policy  excess of £100 
refunded by the contractor. I know that Mrs C thinks this came  from the contractor and not 
Lloyds but the contractor  acts as Lloyds agent so they are one and the same. I cant  
reasonably ignore that the refunding  of the excess (even if it came after Mrs C threatened 
the contractor with a credit card chargeback) when looking at what fair and reasonable 
compensation should be in the circumstances. 
I have to take into account  this services established approach to awards of compensation. 
And having done so, I think that total compensation of £250 for the distress and 
Ref: DRN54664343inconvenience caused by Lloyds to Mrs C during the handling  of her claim is fair. In reaching 
this conclusion Ive thought about the inconvenience caused by the poor time keeping  and 
workmanship of the contractors, the taking  of the key, the need to re-visit to lay the alarm 
cable and the need to change the locks.  And I think that £250 is fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances. And it is in line with awards  this service has made  in similar cases.  Indeed if 
this case had passed across my desk with no award  of compensation having been offered 
by Lloyds, Im unlikely to have awarded  more than £250. So I wont be asking  Lloyds to pay 
any more to Mrs C. 
If Lloyds is still to pay Mrs C £150  it should do so now.
I havent taken  into account Mrs Cs complaint about the way that Lloyds handled  her 
complaint. Thats because this service has no power  to consider complaints made by 
consumers about  the way a financial business has looked at their complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5466434