K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not pay 
compensation for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) directly to them.  Instead,  
RBS used the compensation to reduce what it considered to be an outstanding debt on 
Mr and Mrs Bs accounts.  
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in which I said that I didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  That provisional decision is attached and forms part of my final decision. 
I asked the parties  for their comments.  RBS responded to say it thought  that the trust deed 
was granted in 2007 and to clarify  that the balance for one loan was £2,242.13 and not 
£2,213.42.  
Mr and Mrs B said that it was not fair and reasonable for me to acknowledge what the case  
law in situations like this said and then make a decision that conflicted with it. They  said 
there was an insinuation  that they had waited years to bring their PPI claim and had tried to 
rip off RBS. They set out the financial difficulties they had and said it wasnt fair that they 
should get nothing back from RBS, which had acted unlawfully. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered the parties  representations. Just to be clear, the information 
RBS clarified in its response  was not material to my provisional decision and so it does not 
affect the outcome. 
I want to make clear to Mr and Mrs B that there is no suggestion they have acted  improperly 
in either  bringing  their PPI complaint or in the timing  of that complaint. It is not at all unusual  
for complaints to come  to this service many years  after the sale of a PPI policy  and no bad 
faith on their part is suggested. 
Turning now to what they said about the legal position, within  my provisional decision,  I 
mentioned that there were  some  court cases  about to whom  PPI compensation should be 
paid when a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed.  In one of the 
court cases, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56, the court said RBS 
couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which they were 
discharged when the trust deed  came to an end. But I explained that this was being 
appealed by RBS  and that the outcome may change.
Since my provisional decision, the appeal  has been heard at the Inner House of the 
Court of Session.  In short,  RBS lost the appeal and the court reaffirmed  the legal position 
that RBS couldnt use the compensation to pay down the amount that wasnt  repaid  after the 
trust deed ended. The court said when the trust deed ended the debtor was discharged from 
her debts, so there was no longer any debt owing from her to the bank which  could be 
subject to set-off.
Ref: DRN56605132At this moment it isnt known whether RBS intend to appeal the decision further  to the 
Supreme Court  so there  is a possibility the outcome may change.
In their response to my provisional  decision,  Mr and Mrs B did not agree that it was fair for 
RBS to offset because  the law is clear on what happens when consumer is discharged  from 
their trust deed. It follows then that in their view, the PPI compensation should be paid 
directly to them. 
However, as explained  within my provisional  decision  I have considered  the relevant law. 
And when  initially  providing my provisional  decision,  I did so when  the law had already found  
in the consumers favour. RBS losing the appeal confirms  the legal position about  what  
happens when  consumer is discharged from their trust deed (although Im mindful as Ive 
said above, RBS maybe  appealing this further to the Supreme Court). But as I also 
explained with my provisional decision,  whilst I take into account the relevant law  Im not 
bound to follow it. I must also apply an over-arching  test of whats  fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  as required of me through section 28 
of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 and the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
DISP rules.
I do very much appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs strength of feeling.  But Im sorry to say that after 
considering their additional representations, Im not persuaded  that the outcome I suggested 
in my provisional decision is wrong. It would be unfair for RBS to pay compensation directly 
to Mr and Mrs B now wont  ever have to repay the outstanding monies that were  borrowed 
from RBS. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B. But for the reasons set out above,  I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Copy of my provisional decision 
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not pay compensation  for 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) directly to them. Instead, RBS used the compensation  
to reduce what it considered  to be an outstanding debt on 
Mr and Mrs Bs accounts.   
Ref: DRN56605133background
Mr and Mrs B took out a number  of loans  with RBS over the years. At the same  time,  they were  sold 
PPI policies. 
In or around  2009, Mr and Mrs B each granted a trust deed to their creditors,  which  subsequently 
became protected  trust deeds. This is a form of insolvency. Mr and Mrs Bs RBS loans  were included 
in their trust deeds. Mr and Mrs B were discharged in or around 2012. 
In or around  2017, Mr and Mrs B complained that PPI had been mis-sold  to them.  RBS agreed and it 
upheld the complaints. It paid compensation directly to them  for five of their accounts. But it withheld 
the compensation for another five of the loans.  
RBS said that it had paid compensation directly to Mr and Mrs B in error.   Rather than pay the 
compensation from the other loans directly  to them, RBS said it would use the funds  to reduce the 
money it said was outstanding  on Mr and Mrs Bs loan accounts. This is called offsetting.  
Our adjudicator thought the way RBS had offered to settle the complaint was fair. Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree with that view.  In summary, they said: 
Their loan with RBS did not exceed £16,000 at the time the trust deeds were granted; 
Our adjudicator had not considered the law and Mr and Mrs B had been discharged from their 
trust deeds a long time ago; 
RBS had made Mr and Mrs B several  legally  binding offers, which they had accepted;
At the time of the trust deed, the onus  was on RBS to look for mis-sold  PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I am very sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs B, but I havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain  why below. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs B owed the amount that RBS claimed. Ive seen 
evidence that in 2009, Mr and Mrs B had an outstanding balance for one loan of £17,061.50. Ive 
seen further evidence that Mrs B had two outstanding loans  and that in 2011;  the outstanding  balance 
was £2,213.42  and £223.73  respectively. I appreciate that what  Mr and Mrs B have told us is what  
they honestly recall about their circumstances  at the time. But Im satisfied  on the evidence before me 
that when they granted the trust deed, their outstanding balance was greater than they remember. 
Ive looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs B told us about the acceptance forms they signed. I 
appreciate they feel strongly that these forms constituted a valid offer to them  which RBS should 
honour. However, upon considering these documents, I can see its set out just above Mr and Mrs Bs 
signature that: 
If I am, or have been, subject  to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA), Protected Trust 
Deed, Bankruptcy or Sequestration, any payment will be made to the relevant account I hold 
with you. Any disbursements due under the terms of the arrangement will then be managed  
by the Group's Insolvency  Team.
With that in mind, I think Mr and Mrs B would  have  been  on notice that the PPI could  be withheld. 
Ive also thought  about  what Mr and Mrs B said about how the law applies to their complaint.  But as I 
said above, the outcome  of this complaint depends upon  what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all of the circumstances.  When  considering  what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, I have to take 
account of the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). DISP  3.6.4 R of the FCA 
Handbook (which is available  online)  requires me to take the following  into account:
Ref: DRN56605134(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
RBS has already agreed that it mis-sold PPI to Mr and Mrs B. So I dont need to look at the 
circumstances surrounding the sale. I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use 
the resulting PPI compensation to reduce the outstanding balance after the trust deeds were  
discharged (or came  to an end). 
Ive considered carefully what the law says about protected trust deeds. In recent years there have 
been a number of cases looking at what happens to PPI compensation after a protected trust deed 
comes to an end. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom considered the 
effect of a discharged  trust deed following a final distribution by the trustee. In that case, the 
discharge was held to terminate the trust which  meant that any unrealised assets were returned to the 
debtor  including the PPI compensation  that no one had known  about at the time.  In other words,  
the Supreme Court said that the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustees. It said it should 
be paid to the consumer.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether The Royal  Bank of Scotland (RBS)  could offset PPI compensation  against an 
outstanding balance when a trust deed  came to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case 
meant RBS had, in effect, agreed  that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt  later re-open 
the debt to offset the PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision,  so the 
outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS couldnt successfully  argue in court that it should be allowed to offset  
the compensation in Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
But as I said above, when Im deciding  whats fair and reasonable,  I have to consider a number  of 
things  not just the relevant  case law. And I also have to consider  whats fair for both parties. I 
appreciate that RBS cant now chase Mr and Mrs B in court for the money that they owed when they 
granted the trust deeds. But I can see from the evidence  RBS has provided that Mr and Mrs B have 
still borrowed over £18,000  more than they repaid off their loans. Its likely that wont now ever be 
repaid. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs B have been discharged  from the trust deeds and that the case law says 
those debts dont exist anymore. But in reality, Mr and Mrs B still had the benefit  of over £18,000 from 
RBS that they dont  have to pay back.  In those circumstances, I dont think it would  be fair to tell RBS 
to pay Mr and Mrs Bs compensation directly to them. The fact that Mr and Mrs Bs trust deeds had 
come to an end before this offer of PPI compensation was made doesnt make a difference to what  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. I cant reasonably say its fair for RBS to repay  the PPI 
compensation directly  to Mr and Mrs B when  they dont  now need to pay back the much bigger  
amount they borrowed. 
Ive also thought  about  what Mr and Mrs B said about the timing of their complaint. Had Mr and Mrs B 
 or their trustee  realised theyd been mis-sold the PPI while the trust deed was active, then RBS 
would have been entitled  to use all of the compensation  to reduce what Mr and Mrs B owed. 
Ref: DRN56605135Alternatively, it could have been  paid to the trustee for the benefit  of all their creditors. It is important 
to note that they wouldnt have got this money directly.  
I recognise that Mr and Mrs B didnt  complain about the mis-sold PPI until after they had been 
discharged from their trust deed. And RBS paid some of the compensation directly to them. But again,  
I dont think this makes a difference  to what is fair. I say this because in consequence of the trust 
deed there is an outstanding amount that wont now have to be repaid.  Ultimately RBS says it paid Mr 
and Mrs B some of the compensation in error. It used  the remaining compensation  to reduce the 
borrowing on the unpaid balance that doesnt have to be repaid.  Overall, that seems fair.
As things stand, I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation its offered to reduce  the 
outstanding monies owed and left unpaid  following when Mr and Mrs Bs trust deeds came to an end. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im provisionally satisfied that its fair for The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc to use some of Mr and Mrs Bs PPI compensation to reduce the monies owed and left 
unpaid when  Mr and Mrs Bs trust deeds came to an end.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5660513