K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about the service he received  from American  Express  Services  Europe 
Limited (AESEL) with regard to a payment of £50 compensation hed been awarded from a 
previous complaint. He was unhappy  he had been  required  to make multiple calls chasing 
the payment,  calls were  not returned  when  promised, and that when he tried to register a 
complaint it was not logged. 
background 
Mr L was due to receive £50 compensation from AESEL in connection with an earlier 
complaint he had made. As he hadnt received the payment he made  a number of enquiries 
with AESEL, by telephone,  between  the 23 July 2018 and 10 August  2018. Mr L said he was 
unhappy with the level of service he received from the advisors he spoke to as some  werent  
able to answer his questions, some were  confused  and some said calls would be returned 
but they never were. Mr L asked if he could register a complaint in the light of two failures to 
call him back and the advisor refused  to do so.
AESEL acknowledged  that their service wasnt satisfactory, accepting that Mr L ought to 
have been called back and that his complaint should have been logged. 
On the 24 July 2018 AESEL sent Mr L a £50 cheque for the earlier complaint. AESEL also 
sent Mr L a further  cheque for £75 to reflect the poor service he had received.
Mr L was unhappy  with AESELs response  and complained to this service. An adjudicator  
looked into the complaint and agreed  that the service  he had received from AESEL was not 
satisfactory. He thought however that the offer of £75 for the distress  and upset caused  was 
fair and reflected the inconvenience caused.
Mr L disagreed with our adjudicators view and thought the award should be higher to 
compensate him for the mental anguish and the efforts he had gone  to in pursuing  the 
cheque. The complaint  has now been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
What I need to decide is whether AESEL  acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Mr L. 
There are various aspects to Mr Ls complaint. First, the complaint should  have  been  logged 
when Mr L first made it, and it was unfair  of the advisor to refuse  to do so. AESEL have 
accepted that this was a failure in service and they are right to do so. I also note Mr L had 
asked to speak  to a manager, but because none  were available  that couldnt be actioned.  
That was unfortunate but I think the advisor  acted reasonably here when they offered to try 
again and send a notification to a manager, so I cant  say that what  happened  was unfair in 
those circumstances.
Secondly, there is evidence to show that promises were made to Mr L that he would be 
called back, but he wasnt. There is also evidence that he then had to chase AESEL leading 
to him becoming more  frustrated when he was unable to speak  to a supervisor because  
Ref: DRN51951502none were available. I can readily accept that waiting for calls that never materialised must 
have been very frustrating  and irritating for him, and that has understandably  only increased 
his dissatisfaction  with the service  he received.  I find that to be poor service.
Finally I can see that when Mr L rang on some occasions the advisors  he spoke to were 
unable to answer his questions, and he was again  understandably frustrated by having  to 
repeat himself with each  new advisor he spoke to. But I dont think  any of the advisors were 
unreasonable in the way they spoke to Mr L, except in respect of refusing to register his 
complaint, and they did need to ask him certain questions  in order  to help him.
AESEL have accepted there has been a failure in the level of service they provided, and the 
issue now therefore becomes what the appropriate  level of compensation ought  to be. I have 
thought about the £75 compensation AESEL paid to Mr L and although I know  he will be 
disappointed with my decision I do agree with our adjudicator  that this is a reasonable sum 
and in line with this services guidelines.  So I dont think that AESEL need to do anything  
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold the complaint  against  American  Express Services  
Europe Limited, and as they have already paid Mr L £75 in compensation I dont require 
them to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5195150