K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to her in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
Mrs M took two instalment loans from Satsuma between March 2018 and October 2018. 
Details of the 2 loans are as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Monthly instalments
Highest repayment
Date repaid
1 31/03/2018 £500 12 £111 outstanding
2 06/10/2018 £500 9 £83 outstanding
Mrs Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators.  He sent a letter  to both 
parties where he didnt  uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  He concluded that Satsuma didnt  need  to 
carry out any further checks at the time it granted  the two loans to Mrs M and didnt do 
anything wrong. 
Mrs M didnt  agree with our adjudicator. She said Satsuma should have seen that she had 
significant other debt repayments to repay at the time it granted these 2 loans to her 
(especially loan 2) and that it was irresponsible for it to do so.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs M could  repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mrs Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN55003972the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Mrs M. It asked her for details of her 
income and her normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference agencies.  And it 
then used this information to calculate how much disposable income  Mrs M had left over 
each month. Satsuma also used the credit reference agency checks  to gather some  more 
information about Mrs Ms financial situation  at that time.
Mrs M has told our service that she had significant  other debt repayments to make at the 
time she had applied for her loans with Satsuma  and that it should,  as a responsible lender, 
been aware of this and through its credit checks decided not to give her the credit. Mrs M 
says for example  that she had to repay  an additional £1400  from other  debt in the month she 
was given loan 2. 
I have seen results from the credit  checks that Satsuma carried  out at the time in granted  
both loans. These checks failed to show  any information that might  have  suggested Mrs M 
was having problems managing her money or that she had a significant amount of other  
credit commitments,  at least not enough  that I would have expected  Satsuma to look into it 
further. The checks also didnt show any other  concerning information such as a reliance on 
other short term loans,  or delinquent or defaulted  accounts. It did show one payment in 
arrears when it carried out checks for loan 2.
Mrs M says Satsuma  should have picked  up on the financial pressures  she was under at the 
time, but a lender might  only see a small portion of the consumers credit file, or some data 
might be missing or anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date. So, it may explain that 
even though Mrs M says that she was having problems managing her money at the time, 
this was not reflected in the credit search  information collated by Satsuma  at the time of 
each of the two loans.  
Mrs M first approached  Satsuma in February  2018  for her first instalment loan. The 
repayments that Mrs M had agreed  to make  on this loan were relatively modest compared to 
the income that shed declared  to Satsuma. This was the first time Mrs M had approached 
Satsuma for a loan from what I have  seen, I dont think there was any reason for Satsuma to 
doubt the information Mrs M had provided about her income and expenditure (even though  
Mrs M has provided information to us to show her disposable income was lower). She then 
took out a further loan around  6 months later before she repaid her first loan and this again 
was affordable based on what  she had told them. I think it is fair and reasonable for Satsuma 
at this stage to consider Mrs M had not become reliant on its loans based  on what she was 
telling it, its credit check data and her short lending history with it.
I acknowledge Mrs Ms comments about her finances at the time the loans were granted,  
and that he had other financial commitments to repay. But that wasnt  something she told 
Satsuma when she asked  for the loans, nor do I think it is something  Satsuma  should  have 
discovered from proportionate checks. I think it was reasonable here for Satsuma to rely on 
the information that Mrs M provided  about  her finances when assessing the affordability of 
the loans. I dont think it would be proportionate  to expect Satsuma to have gone further and 
Ref: DRN55003973sought to independently  verify what Mrs M had said. And as the information Mrs M provided  
suggested that the loans  were affordable for her I dont think  that Satsuma did anything 
wrong when it agreed to lend.
I can see that Mrs M still has an outstanding  balance to repay and Id remind  Satsuma about  
its responsibility to treat Mrs M positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5500397