K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Progressive Money Limited  lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
December 2020.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Neither Mr M nor 
Progressive have provided me with anything  further.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
Although I dont think the analysis Progressive did before agreeing the loan was sufficiently 
detailed, I dont think a better assessment should have led to the loan request being 
declined. So I dont  think this complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award 
Progressive Money  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51859582EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
Mr M took a single loan from Progressive. He borrowed £4,000 in February 2018 and agreed to repay  
the loan in 36 monthly instalments. Around the time he made his complaint Mr M found it difficult  to 
make his repayments  and set up a revised repayment schedule. So when I last received  information 
on his account Mr M still had a balance outstanding on the loan.
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the checks  
Progressive had done before agreeing  the loan had been proportionate. But he thought that those 
checks should  have led Progressive to conclude that Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably  afford the 
repayments. So he thought the complaint  should be upheld and asked Progressive  to pay Mr M some 
compensation.
Progressive didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved informally, 
it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Mr Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Progressive gave this loan to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  he could afford  to repay  what he owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Progressive had to think about whether repaying  the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice  this meant 
that Progressive had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty  or 
adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Progressive to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider  the impact of any repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
Ref: DRN51859583and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether Progressive did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr M.
Progressive gathered a large  amount  of information from Mr M before  it agreed the loan.  It asked him 
for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It checked his credit  file to understand how 
much he was repaying to other creditors. And it asked him for copies  of his payslips  and bank 
statements so it could validate the information hed provided about his finances.
Mr M was entering  into a significant commitment with Progressive. He would need to make  monthly 
repayments for a period of three years. So I would expect that Progressive  should want to gather,  and 
independently check, some detailed information about  Mr Ms financial circumstances before it agreed 
to lend to him. I think  that the checks Progressive  did achieved that aim. I think  the checks that were  
done by Progressive were  proportionate.  
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt always  enough. A lender also needs to react appropriately  
to what  those  checks  show.  So Ive looked at the analysis that Progressive did of Mr Ms financial 
situation, and performed my own analysis of the information that Progressive gathered.
Mr M had a number of payday loans  outstanding when he asked for the loan from Progressive. 
Considering his income, and his other regular  expenditure, those repayments when  taken together 
would have made it unlikely that Mr M could  afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner.  But 
Progressive insisted  that Mr M should  use part of the loan to consolidate  that borrowing  by repaying 
his payday loans. And Progressive settled those loans  directly  with the lenders based on settlement 
figures that Mr M provided. So I dont think Progressive needed to take account  of the repayments on 
those payday loans when  considering the affordability of Mr Ms application.
I dont think that the analysis that Progressive  did of the items  shown on Mr Ms bank statements  
when it first agreed the loan was sufficient. Mr M had clearly faced  some significant financial problems 
many years before he asked for this loan. And as a result  his credit  file showed a large number  of 
defaulted accounts and he has told us that he was making repayments on those  loans through  a debt 
management plan. He also made  a large payment each month  to his wife for household  expenses. 
I dont think Progressive took sufficient account of those items of expenditure  when it agreed the loan.
But the deficiencies in the analysis that Progressive  did in 2018 dont mean that the complaint should  
be upheld. I would also need to find that a more thorough analysis of the proportionate information 
Progressive obtained in 2018 would have suggested that the loan wasnt sustainably  affordable.
In response to our adjudicators assessment Progressive  has looked  again  at the information  it 
gathered from Mr M in 2018. I have  also performed  a similar  analysis of the results of the credit check 
and the bank  statement that Mr M gave to Progressive. Whilst  I am sure that Mr Ms expenditure, and 
indeed his income,  do vary from month to month, I think the information  I have looked at is reasonably  
representative of his true circumstances.  And my conclusions are similar to those that Progressive 
has reached in its new analysis.
I dont think the evidence from Mr Ms bank statements  suggests that he would face significant 
problems repaying the loan from Progressive  in a sustainable  manner. His bank statements dont 
show evidence of serious financial  problems  such as regular unpaid transactions or escalating  levels 
of overdraft or other debt.  And the careful consideration of his normal  expenditure would suggest that 
Mr M would be able to meet his repayments  in a sustainable manner. So I dont currently think  that 
what I consider  to be proportionate checks should have led Progressive to decline  Mr Ms loan 
application.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision  will be for Mr M. But although I dont  think the analysis  
Progressive did before  agreeing this loan was sufficiently detailed, I dont think a better assessment 
should have led to the loan request being  declined. So I dont  currently think  this complaint  should be 
upheld.
Ref: DRN5185958