K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limiteds decision to decline his claim 
under his employers group income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr R was a member of his employers group income protection insurance policy, held with 
Aviva. The policy would  pay a monthly benefit,  after a waiting period of 26 weeks, if Mr R 
was unable to perform his occupation  because of illness or injury.
In April 2017, Mr Rs wife gave birth to their daughter. Very shortly afterwards, his wife was 
sadly diagnosed  with cancer. She embarked  upon an urgent course  of treatment.
Mr R had initially stopped  working to take two weeks paternity leave followed by two weeks  
of annual leave  but when  this expired  his employer agreed that he could  remain off work on 
compassionate leave.
The compassionate leave ended in August  2017  but Mr R was then certified by his GP as 
unfit to return to work due to stress. He thus remained absent from work but from this point it 
was due to sickness.
He remained on sickness absence into 2018  and so his employer made a claim on his 
behalf under  the policy. However,  Aviva  declined the claim as it considered the medical 
evidence didnt support that Mr R was medically unfit to work.
Mr Rs employer appealed the decision on his behalf. Aviva agreed to pay two months 
benefit on an ex gratia  basis while it reconsidered the matter. It confirmed it wouldnt ask for 
this money back if it continued  to decline  the claim. In April 2018 Aviva  arranged for Mr R to 
undergo an independent  medical examination (IME) by Dr H, a consultant in occupational 
medicine. Based on Dr Hs report, Aviva continued  to decline the claim.
Mr R complained to Aviva  about its decision and highlighted what  he considered to be 
problems with Dr Hs report. He also provided a May 2018 report from a consultant  
occupational physician (who Ill call Dr Z) which supported his case. Aviva wouldnt change  
its position. Mr R therefore referred his complaint  to us. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
To be entitled for benefit, Mr R needs to show he was unable, throughout the waiting period, 
to perform his job role on a full or part time basis as a result  of illness or injury.
The medical evidence  consists of the GP records, a GP letter,  the report  of Dr H and the 
report of Dr Z. 
The GP records show that Mr R attended the GP surgery  in May 2017. The entry  says that 
Mr R had a stress-related problem and reads:
Has been given  compassionate  leave  but might need a [medical certificate]  for extended 
leave as needs to be at home to help with both daughter and wife.
Ref: DRN59743892Mr R next returned  to the GP surgery in August 2017 on the day his compassionate leave 
expired. The entry reads:
Compassionate leave  has come to the end. Unable to work as wife diagnosed with cancer 
at the birth of their daughter and he is main carer for both.
The GP certified him as unfit to work  due to a stress related problem and continued to do so 
when Mr R needed such certification thereafter. 
The GP, at Mr Rs request, wrote  a letter in support of his claim in January 2018. This letter 
states:
He tells me that he suffers from low mood  and anxiety, his sleep  is disturbed,  his memory 
and concentration  are both poor and he feels that he is cognitively not as sharp as he has 
been in the past.
The GP further explained that Mr R had undergone some joint cognitive  behavioural therapy 
(CBT) sessions with his wife which he had found useful. He goes on to explain that Mr R 
feels he wouldnt be able to concentrate and focus adequately to do his job. 
Dr H examined Mr R having been presented  with his GP records. Dr H diagnosed Mr R as 
suffering from adjustment disorder, anxiety and depression. However, on the balance of 
probabilities, he considered  that Mr R was medically fit to return  to work.  He thought this 
would actually be therapeutic for Mr R by bringing  some normality and distracting him from 
his personal life. He recommended that Mr R should  start by working on two half-days a 
week and from home,  and gradually increase  to normal full-time working over a period of 
eight weeks. He suggested various  measures  which his employer should take to help Mr R 
with his return to work. These included allowing him extra time to complete projects, allowing 
him to work from home where possible,  showing sympathy and support if he became 
emotional, and allowing  time off at short notice for medical appointments.
Less than three weeks after being  assessed  by Dr H, Mr R underwent another  IME with 
Dr Z. This was at the request of his employer. Dr Z concluded that Mr R was suffering from 
reactive anxiety and depression due to serious family illness. He thought Mr R remained 
temporarily unfit to return to work.  He said that Mr R may benefit  from further  counselling 
before he returned  to work. He said that when Mr R did return  to work, it should be on a 
phased basis and his employer should  be flexible over matters such  as allowing him to work 
from home and giving him time off so he could attend his wifes medical  appointments. 
I dont find the GP records to be particularly supportive of Mr Rs case. While it seems the 
GP had prescribed him anti-depressant medication,  there is little else to suggest he was 
suffering from a mental illness  which would prevent him from working. It seems from these 
records that it was because Mr R needed  to look after his wife and daughter, rather than for 
medical reasons,  that he felt unable to attend  work.
I similarly dont  find the GPs letter particularly persuasive. He seems to be simply reporting  
Mr Rs comments  made  to him at that time. The GP records suggest that Mr R hadnt 
previously described his symptoms in this way. I therefore am not inclined to place  much  
weight on this letter.
This means  that the assessment of the case largely comes down to a judgement  as to which 
is more reliable between  Dr Hs and Dr Zs report.  Mr R provided  a number of criticisms of 
Ref: DRN59743893Dr Hs report but I consider that Dr H provided a sound rebuttal of each of these. On 
balance, I am minded  to place more weight  on Dr Hs report.  I consider him to be slightly 
better qualified medically than Dr Z. He had the advantage  of seeing Mr Rs GP records  
beforehand and, as explained  above,  I dont think these records  lend much  support for 
Mr Rs claim.  Furthermore, I think Dr Hs report is a little more detailed  and gives stronger 
argument for the conclusions reached than does Dr Zs report. The investigator considered  
that some  of the adjustments  proposed by Dr H to help facilitate Mr Rs return to work were  
unreasonable but I disagree with this. They  are not dissimilar to the adjustments proposed  
by Dr Z and there is no indication that Mr Rs employer found them a problem.
In view of the above, I consider it was reasonable for Aviva  to decline the claim. I recognise 
this will come as a significant disappointment  to Mr R who has clearly been through a very 
difficult time. I can understand why he hasnt felt able to return to work.  But, in my opinion,  
the evidence doesnt suggest  it is because he has been too ill to do so, which is the criteria 
under the policy. 
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr R didnt accept my provisional decision.  He commented as follows:
his mental health, at one stage, had been  so poor that Aviva  had to liaise with his 
wife acting on his behalf;
he disagreed  with Dr Hs view that returning  to work would be therapeutic and bring 
some normality to his life;
the lack of detail in his GP records was because of his unwillingness, particularly at 
the start of his illness, to acknowledge and discuss his mental health issues;
his employer was never formally asked whether the adjustments  proposed  by Dr H 
were reasonable and his manager told him that he thought  they were  not practical;
Avivas declinature of the claim has caused him financial problems which  have 
exacerbated his stress and anxiety; and
in September  2019 he began a gradual  return to work - primarily out of financial 
necessity rather than because he felt better  - but he has found this difficult  and he 
continues to take anti-depressant  medication. 
Aviva accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not persuaded to 
change my provisional decision.  I shall explain  why.
I have noted Mr Rs comments  on his state of mental health during the period he was off 
work, including  his explanation of why there is so little detail in his GP records.  However,  he 
hasnt provided  further evidence  or expert medical opinion. And when it comes to the 
question of whether  Mr R was too ill to work, I dont consider that I can reasonably place 
more weight on his own opinion than on the expert  opinion of Dr H.
Ref: DRN59743894I have explained  that I think the adjustments proposed by Dr H were reasonable. Mr R has 
reported the comments of his manager  but otherwise  there is nothing to show his employer 
thought the adjustments  couldnt reasonably be implemented  or why this was the case.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I recognise  that Mr R has clearly  been through  a very 
difficult time. It is unfortunate  that, on top of everything else,  he has been caused financial 
stress through  the declinature of his claim.  However,  I remain of the opinion  that Aviva  acted 
fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5974389