K821x#15complaint
Miss F complains that Uncle  Buck  Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued on 6th 
January 2020.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I wont  
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be upheld  and what  
Uncle Buck  needed  to do to put things  right.  I invited  both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.  
Miss F responded on 14th January 2020  and had no further comments to make  relating to 
her complaint. She did add that the outstanding balance  that she had to pay has been sold 
onto a third party. 
Uncle Buck  responded on 5th February 2020  to say it had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have nothing  further to add and I have no new evidence  to consider.
So having  considered everything  Ive received in relation to this complaint, both before and 
after issuing my provisional decision, I am not persuaded to change those initial conclusions. 
Uncle Buck  now needs to put things right with regards to loan 3. 
putting things right
Uncle Buck  should:
refund  all interest and charges Miss F paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
take off any negative information  recorded  regarding loan 3 on Miss Fs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Miss F has an outstanding balance  on loan 3. Uncle Buck sold this debt to a third party  debt 
collection company.  I understand Miss F is making  agreed repayments to this third party in 
relation to this.
Ref: DRN56659372I havent seen  anything to make  me think Miss F shouldnt repay the principal she borrowed 
from the lender.  So it seems reasonable that if Miss F still owes some of the capital she 
borrowed that the refund due to her should  be used to reduce that debt. But to do so Uncle  
Buck must first take the debt back into its own books and reduce it to reflect  just the capital 
that Miss F borrowed. If Uncle Buck is unable to do this, it must ensure  that its interest and 
charges, and any other interest and charges added  by the debt collection company, are 
refunded to Miss F so she can choose whether  to use the compensation to settle her debt 
directly.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Fs complaint and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56659373EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss F has complained about three loans she took out with Uncle  Buck Finance LLP (trading as Uncle  
Buck). She says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Miss F took three loans from Uncle  Buck between December 2017 and August 2018.  A summary of 
Miss Fs borrowing is shown below: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 08/12/2017 29/12/2017 3 £300.00 £141.03
2 05/03/2018 29/06/2018 3 £400.00 £161.54
3 22/08/2018 outstanding 6 £500.00 £143.47
Miss F has an amount  left to pay on loan 3. 
Our adjudicator recommended  Miss Fs complaint be upheld. She felt that the information Uncle  Buck 
gathered for loan 1 showed Miss F was having  problems managing her money. The information  
gathered showed Miss F had 3 delinquent accounts within the past 12 months. In these 
circumstances, the adjudicator felt that Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was unlikely Miss F 
wouldve been  able to sustainably repay her loan (loan  1) and any loans after that point (loans 2 and 
3).
Uncle Buck didnt agree;  it said;
It did proportionate checks and the information  Miss F provided suggested the loans were  
affordable.
Its checks were  detailed and it expected consumers  to be accurate and truthful  about  the 
information they provided.
As a high risk lender,  it would still lend based on some adverse information.
Uncle Buck  cannot make a lending  decision based on what it cant  see.
The applicant  had to read the pre contract information before the loan application could 
proceed.
Defaults and judgements are not on their own,  a reason not to lend.
As Uncle Buck didnt agree,  the complaint  has come to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im thinking about reaching  the 
same outcome as the adjudicator  but wanted to explain  how the business  should  put things right in 
more detail.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice - on our website.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when Uncle Buck  lent to 
Miss F. The FCAs Consumer  Credit sourcebook  (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit 
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as Uncle Buck.
Ref: DRN56659374It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information 
to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability of the arrangement  for 
the consumer.
In other words the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to 
the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer  of incurring  financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequence as a result of the decision to lend.
As set out in the guidance,  the risk to the consumer directly relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of creditworthiness  would 
likely need to be flexible.  That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might not be for another, 
or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance  might not be so for the same  
consumer in other  circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential  risk 
to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.
Certain factors might  point  to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include, but are not limited 
to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Uncle Buck told us it asked for details  of Miss Fs income and expenses  when it agreed loan 1 and 2. 
It also carried  out a credit search. This was the start of the lending relationship between  the two 
parties. Miss F provided details about her income  and expenditure.  The information she had declared 
about her disposable income meant that the amount she was asking to borrow for loans 1 and 2 and 
the repayments would have appeared  affordable.  
The credit  search  results  for loan 1 did show that Miss F had 3 delinquent  accounts within  12 months 
of that search taking place. But when I look further into the detail of this credit search  I can see that 1 
of these accounts  is from January 2017, and another from June 2017 both being  several months from 
when loan 1 was granted. Miss F had also only opened 1 new account within the previous  6 months 
and her overall unsecured loan balance was relatively  low compared  to her income. When  Miss F 
applied for loan 2 her credit search results had improved slightly with her overall loan balance  being  
reduced with no other negative  information being  added  in this time.  So when I consider all of this, I 
dont think Uncle Buck was wrong to give Miss F her first two loans.
Miss F approached  Uncle Buck for loan 3 in August  2018,  nearly 2 months after she had repaid loan 
2. Bearing in mind this was still fairly early  on in the lending relationship between  Miss F and Uncle  
Buck and taking into account the loan repayment  in relation to Miss Fs declared income; the checks  - 
at first glance - might  have  also appeared proportionate.
Ref: DRN56659375However, the credit  search carried out by Uncle Buck indicated Miss F had by now 2 delinquent 
accounts and 3 defaulted accounts in addition to a rising balance of unsecured debt. Miss Fs credit 
search results at this stage showed a deterioration  of her financial affairs  from the previous search. 
There were  clear signs now, in my view, that Miss F had had some quite serious problems  managing  
her money.
The findings  of the credit  search report for loan 3 ought to have caused Uncle Buck concerns that 
Miss Fs problems  managing money were not historical but rather  problems managing her finances 
over the months since  she last applied  for a loan (loan 2). As such there was a real risk that Miss F 
wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay loan 3.
So as a responsible lender,  I dont think Uncle Buck should have agreed loan 3 and should put things  
right.
Ref: DRN5665937