K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Unum Ltd has declined  his claim on his income protection  policy.
background
In May 2018  Mr M was unfortunately admitted to hospital. On his discharge he was advised 
to take part in a rehabilitation programme, which hes explained was over a 12 week period. 
And he was due to have  a follow-up with his consultant in September  2018. Mr M didnt 
return to work until after this follow-up, returning initially  on a phased  basis.
Mr M put in a claim with Unum under his policy. He set out what  had happened  to him and 
the follow-up care he was undergoing. Unum considered his claim, but didnt agree to pay a 
benefit. It didnt  consider  hed been  incapacitated  (as per the policy  definition)  throughout the 
duration of the deferred period for his policy.  So this meant he wasnt entitled  to a benefit,  as 
per the policy  terms.
Mr M disagreed and argued that the definition of incapacity had been applied unfairly. He 
explained that hed bought a policy that covered  him if he lost his income as he was unable  
to work  and that was the situation here. Unum didnt change its stance so he brought  his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator also didnt uphold  the complaint, so Mr M asked for an ombudsman  to 
consider the case. He said there was medical  evidence  which  set out that it was clearly  
appropriate for him to return to work when he did. He considered  this had been ignored. So 
the case has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  for claims  cases are the terms of the policy   as these form the contract 
that Mr M and Unum entered into when  he bought cover. So Ive reviewed his policy terms. 
As Mr M is arguing  hes entitled to a benefit  under the policy, a key section of is policy  is 
around when the policy  will pay out. It reads:
4.1 Amount of benefit
a)We will pay benefit if, before the expiry  date, you meet the definition  of incapacity 
and suffer a loss of earnings.
b)We will pay your benefit monthly  in arrears from the end of the deferred period. 
This means that your first monthly  benefit  will be paid one month  after the end of 
the deferred period.
Incapacity is defined  as:
Means you cannot perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation 
because of your illness  or injury
Ref: DRN53417782Deferred period is defined as:
The continuous  period  from the date you are first unable to perform  the material  and 
substantial duties of your occupation to the date benefit is first payable.
And under the Claiming benefit  section the policy reads:
b) We will not pay any benefit if the plan has ended or incapacity has ceased  at the 
time we are told of a claim.
So these are the terms and definitions Unum  needs  to rely on to assess Mr Ms claim. And 
his schedule confirms  that his deferred  period is 13 weeks,  meaning this is the first point he 
was able to be fully assessed and considered  for a payment under the policy. So in essence, 
Mr M needed to meet  the definition  of incapacity when he became unwell and still be 
meeting this definition  13 weeks later in order to receive a benefit under the policy.
Ive reviewed the evidence available and Im in agreement with our investigator that Unum 
has considered  this claim fairly  and based on what Ive seen  has fairly declined  the claim.
While I appreciate Mr M was very unwell and wasnt able to work  initially,  I havent seen any 
medical evidence  that states this was the case for the full 13 weeks. I cant see that his 
doctors signed him off work for this whole time or he was formally  told by the hospital not to 
return to work. I appreciate he was undertaking a rehabilitation programme for his condition,  
but again, reading the literature for this, I cant see that this meant  he met the incapacity 
definition above  and so couldnt work.
I accept Mr M did likely meet the definition  of incapacity when he was first unwell, but I cant  
agree that he continued to and still met it at the end of the deferred period. Hes said his GP 
concurred a phased  return  to work  was appropriate and referred to a letter from his GP. 
But reading the letter, the GP has said that Mr M commenced a phased return to work  its 
not stated in this letter  that this was medically necessary or that this was prescribed as part 
of his recovery. And, as Ive stated above, Mr M needed to meet the policy  definition  of 
incapacity and the terms to claim  meaning that even if I was to accept his GP agreed the 
phased return was appropriate, that doesnt automatically mean he met all the required 
policy terms, including during the deferred period. So I cant  agree that benefit is payable  to 
him.
I understand the comments Mr M has made  about his health  and not wanting  to take risks 
with his recovery. However, the policy Mr M took only provides a benefit  if he meets the 
definitions and terms above. So while he may not have considered it safe or appropriate to 
return to work while he was undertaking the rehabilitation programme, that doesnt mean 
hes covered by the policy.
Ref: DRN53417783Mr M has said that if he isnt entitled  to benefit under the policy,  then he should be refunded 
his premiums. Hes said the policy was misrepresented  to him when he took it out. However, 
the sales paperwork shows that Unum didnt sell this policy to Mr M, it was sold by a third 
party. So Mr M needs to raise any concerns about  what was said in the sale with them  
directly. In terms of the Unum paperwork he received as part of the sale,  which Unum is 
responsible for, I consider  this is clear. The definitions  are prominent in the policy literature 
and the deferred period is set out clearly on his schedule. And the paperwork makes  it clear 
what type of cover this policy provides. So I dont consider  Unum  misled Mr M about what  he 
was taking out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5341778