K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given  by Pacific IFA Limited (Pacific) to transfer his 
personal pension  into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP)  and about  Pacific not 
assessing the suitability of his investment in overseas property with Harlequin  Property  
(Harlequin). He wants Pacific to compensate him for his losses.
background 
Mr C and his wife were introduced to Pacific by a third party in April 2010. They met with 
Pacific on 14 April 2010 and both signed a client referral form and a client agreement on the 
same day. Pacific has said that it didnt receive any form of commission or 
referral/introduction fee. At the meeting, a financial  review document  was completed  with Mr 
and Mrs Cs personal and financial details. 
A suitability  report was then issued in June 2010  which said that Mr C was in his late 40s, 
married with no dependants. He earned  £45,000 per year and had a joint outstanding  
mortgage with his wife of £190,000 on his main  residence and another  mortgage of £27,000 
on another property.  Together with his wife he also had paid two deposits  totalling £81,000 
to secure off plan overseas properties.  He had a personal pension with a value of around 
£30,000. In addition he had a defined  benefit pension with his employer. Pacific had 
completed an attitude to risk assessment for Mr C. The outcome was that he was prepared 
to take investment risks suited to a cautious balanced profile.  This was number 4 on a risk 
scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being high risk. 
The report  said Mr C wanted advice on where  to place his pension  in order  to facilitate the 
purchase of an overseas  commercial property. So Pacific says it had limited its advice to 
establishing a SIPP with a suitable  provider and didnt accept liability of any losses  resulting 
from his chosen  investment.  Pacific recommended Mr C to transfer  his personal pension to a 
particular SIPP provider  under its family pension trust. 
Pacific said that a spread of investments would match Mr Cs cautious balanced attitude to 
risk and it did point out that his chosen investment  was very high risk (9 or 10 on the risk 
scale when he was rated as 4). The suitability report commented on the general risks of off 
plan overseas commercial  property  investments  via a SIPP. The report also mentioned that 
the family  trusts charges  were significantly higher than Mr Cs personal pension  plan.
Mr C signed the report to confirm hed read and understood  it on 9 June 2010. On the same  
day Mr C also signed the application to start a family pension trust with the recommended  
SIPP provider. The form said he would be transferring his personal pension  and the intended 
investment was Harlequin Property.   Mr Cs financial adviser was stated as Pacific  IFA 
Limited on this application.  The trust was established on 30 June 2010.
Together with his wife Mr C completed a Harlequin Property contract  to purchase a property 
in St Lucia for £135,000  on 20 July 2010.  The first payment due was £40,500. Half of this 
payment (£20,250) was funded from Mr Cs pension.   
A few months later, in November 2010,  Mr and Mrs C invested  a total of £12,000 from their 
SIPP pension in Sustainable  Growth Group (SGG), an unregulated collective investment 
scheme. 
Ref: DRN59604292In April 2015 Mr C raised  a complaint to Pacific through his representatives (R). He 
complained about the transfer  of his pension into a SIPP and the investment of these funds 
into Harlequin property.  R said Pacific failed to assess the suitability of the Harlequin 
investment.
Pacific rejected the complaint  and so R referred the complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the Harlequin  investment 
was unsuitable  for Mr C and Pacific  shouldnt have recommended the transfer. She 
recommended that Pacific  should compensate Mr C for any losses he suffered by 
transferring from a personal  pension into a SIPP plus £300 compensation for the trouble and 
upset the losses  in his pension caused  Mr C.
Pacific disagreed and so the complaint was referred to me for a decision. Mrs C also raised  
a complaint which Ive considered separately.
findings in my provisional  decision
I previously issued a provisional  decision explaining  that I thought Pacific should have made 
it clear to Mr C that his intended investments  were  unsuitable for him and consequently they 
shouldnt have recommended the SIPP. However, I thought on balance Mr C would have 
gone ahead  with the transfer anyway, so I didnt  think Pacific  should  be held responsible for 
the losses Mr C incurred.
I repeat  my findings  in detail below.
provisional findings
Pacific says they provided limited advice to Mr C which  only extended to the suitability of the 
SIPP wrapper. They say they didnt recommend the unregulated Harlequin investment to 
him and that Mr C had decided to invest into Harlequin before he was introduced to Pacific.  
Based on what Ive seen  this seems to be correct. Ive seen a copy  of a contract that was set 
up between Harlequin  and Mr and Mrs C on 25 March  2010 for the purchase of a property in 
St Lucia.  This was about  three weeks before the couple was introduced  to Pacific. Mr C has 
also confirmed to us that information about  the investment was given  to him by the 
introducing third party and it was the introducer who told the couple it was a good investment 
for them. And the suitability report Pacific issued for Mr C doesnt recommend the Harlequin 
investment. So Im satisfied that Pacific didnt advise  Mr C to invest his pension into this high 
risk investment.
Having said that Pacific advised Mr C on the pension transfer and as part of that they should  
have considered the suitability of the underlying  investments. The regulators  view on this is 
clear. In 2013 it issued  an alert about advice on pension transfers without assessing  the 
suitability of the intended investments. It said:
Financial  advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means  they do not have  to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider  the suitability  of the 
SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example,  where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  
will transfer out of a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest in an 
Ref: DRN59604293overseas property investment  under a SIPP, then the suitability  of the overseas property  
investment must form part of the advice about whether the customer  should transfer into 
the SIPP. If, taking  into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the 
original pension product, including  its underlying holdings,  is more suitable for the 
customer, then the SIPP is not suitable.
This alert didnt mark a change in regulations. It was essentially  a confirmation of how 
financial advisers should act. So Pacific should have assessed the suitability of the 
Harlequin investment and if found unsuitable for Mr C not recommended the SIPP. 
Looking at the suitability report I can see that Pacific pointed out the following:
Based  purely  on cost it was more beneficial to keep Mr Cs existing pension in place 
as the SIPP  had much higher charges than his personal pension
Mr Cs attitude to risk was cautious  balanced  and so Pacific would have considered  a 
spread of investments targeted at his attitude to risk, but he had already chosen  to 
invest partly  into overseas property
The Harlequin investment was much higher risk than Mr Cs attitude to risk would 
allow for (9 or 10 on a scale where  Mr Cs attitude  to risk would have been 4)
The growth rate needed in the SIPP to match his existing  benefits  was not 
realistically achievable
I think the above indicates that Pacific thought the intended investment wasnt suitable for 
Mr C. I appreciate that in order to invest his pension into Harlequin he needed a SIPP  as his 
pension provider didnt  allow this kind of investment. And as explained above it looks like Mr 
C already had made up his mind where  he wanted  to invest.  
Ive also considered the fact that Mr C had a defined benefit pension from his employer 
which formed the majority of his pension provision and which  wasnt transferred. So it could 
be argued that he had some capacity to take risk on a relatively small personal pension for 
the chance of a better return. And I think its plausible that Mr C was prepared to take some 
risk. 
However, Pacifics role wasnt just to execute his wishes. They  needed to assess the 
suitability of the investment for Mr Cs circumstances and let him know  if they considered it 
right for his circumstances. Investing into Harlequin didnt match  his attitude to risk by a long 
way. His risk assessment  showed his attitude to risk as cautious balanced and the Harlequin  
investment was non-standard  and particularly high risk.
I appreciate Pacific say that Mr Cs invested into a property fund in his personal  pension and 
that he had previously invested  into a couple  of other  overseas  properties. However, I 
wouldnt say that makes him an experienced investor or that this makes the investment 
suitable for him.
Pacific should have made it clear to Mr C that the investment he was intending to make was 
unsuitable for him and consequently the SIPP was unsuitable for him. And as a result  a 
recommendation for the transfer  shouldnt have been made.
As a service  we dont  punish businesses for their mistakes. We try to put customers  back in 
the position they would have been in if the correct action had been taken. And in these 
Ref: DRN59604294particular circumstances  I think  on balance  Mr C would have still invested his pension  into 
Harlequin even  if Pacific had advised  him not to do this. Ill explain why.
The suitability report shows that Mr C, together with his wife, had already paid deposits  on 
two further Harlequin  properties (over £80,000 in total). £30,000  of this was financed by 
taking out a further advance on their mortgage which I dont think is a decision anyone would 
take lightly.
At the time Mr and Mrs C were introduced to Pacific they had already  chosen and reserved a 
particular property overseas. Its likely they would have  already paid a reservation fee of 
£1,000. Whilst  this might not be a particularly large  amount, I think it would have influenced 
Mr Cs decision  to go ahead with his original plans. 
Pacific didnt go as far as not recommending the SIPP, but they did point out that the 
Harlequin investment  was very high risk-much higher then Mr Cs attitude  to risk-and  that 
there was a high risk of getting less at retirement than with his old plan. They also pointed  
out some  of the specific risks relating to property investments overseas. I dont know  how 
much of this was discussed  during  the meetings with Pacific.  However,  Ive seen 
correspondence of Pacific explaining to the introducer (when asked for an update) that 
Mr C and his wife had decided to take the suitability report away  and read it before going 
ahead with the SIPP. And they only proceeded with the transfer a couple of weeks later. So I 
think its likely Mr C was aware that this was a high risk investment and would exceed the 
risk level he would usually  be considered  for and that the SIPP was a lot more expensive  
than his existing  personal pension. However,  he still decided to go ahead  with the 
investment.
Mr C said he and his wife proceeded  because  Pacific still told them  it was a good 
investment. However,  I havent seen anything that supports this. I think its more likely  that 
they proceeded because  they had been told previously by the introducer  that Harlequin  was 
a good investment and he and his wife had already invested substantially into something 
that they obviously thought would be beneficial to them. I think it would have been quite a big 
step to cancel the reservation of the property, lose the reservation  fee and try to unwind 
previous investments into other properties  acknowledging previous investment decisions 
might have been wrong.
Mr C met the introducer through  a mutual  friend and seems to have trusted her enough  to 
invest substantial amounts (far more than the amount he was about to invest  from his 
personal pension  pension) and go as far as securing  a loan against his home. Once the 
SIPP was established  Mr C also invested into another unregulated investment on the 
recommendation of the introducer.  I think this shows Mr C and his wife were listening and 
trusting what the introducer was telling them. The introducer was the one who had given 
them the information about Harlequin and who accompanied them through the entire 
process. However, the introducer couldnt  recommend the SIPP,  so she introduced them  to 
Pacific.
In contrast  to this Mr C never had any contact with Pacific before he was introduced to them 
in April 2010. If Pacific had told Mr C that the SIPP (and the investments)  were  unsuitable for 
him, Im therefore not satisfied that he would have put more weight on their advice than on 
the introducers recommendation who was still helping him and his wife to organise  this 
investment. 
Ref: DRN59604295The suitability report mentioned that without  the pension transfers Mr and Mrs C couldnt 
secure their chosen property overseas.  So if Mr C had decided  not to transfer his pension, 
the investment  into their chosen property would  have  fallen  through. Of course I dont  know  
for certain  what Mr C would have done. He said that-in hindsight-he would have  stayed with 
his personal pension. However,  for the reasons explained  above I think at the time of the 
advice its more likely he wouldve listened  to the introducer and still trusted  that this was a 
good investment  for him.
Based on the information I have I think on balance Mr C was already committed to this kind 
of investment. So I think its more likely he would have transferred his pension anyway and 
invested into Harlequin even if he had been  recommended by Pacific not to do so. He could 
have done this by acting  as an insistent client or by opening a SIPP  directly  without financial 
advice -although I accept  its possible that some SIPP providers might have insisted on Mr C 
having sought financial advice beforehand before accepting his business.
This means  he would  be exactly  in the same position he is in now and so I wont  be 
recommending that Pacific pays for any losses he has suffered from transferring  his pension 
into a SIPP  and investing into Harlequin.
responses to my provisional  decision
I asked both parties to provide any further comments  or information they might have. Pacific 
accepted my decision. Mr Cs representative disagreed and-in summary-provided the 
following comments:
Mr C was a lay investor and was relying  on Pacifics knowledge and advice. He 
wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer if Pacific had recommended against it.
Any previous  assurances given by an introducer would be heavily outweighed by 
advice received from a trusted professional adviser.
Its incorrect that Mr and Mrs C had invested  into two further Harlequin properties.  
They had only invested into two properties.  One paid for by a joint mortgage  and 
another property  which was the one Mr and Mrs C used their SIPPs for.
Mr C took the suitability report home for review  and considered  it for a number of 
weeks before going ahead  with the transfer. This shows he wouldnt have proceeded 
in any event. If Mr C had been  sufficiently warned, he wouldnt have continued with 
the transfer.
It wouldnt have been quite a big step to cancel the reservation  of the property. The 
loss of any deposit that had been  paid on the property would have been significantly  
less substantial than continuing to invest his pension in property Mr C was 
specifically advised against. 
The suitability report said that in the family trust Mr C "will benefit from ongoing 
professional advice and will have access to a much improved  investment platform".  
This would  be an encouraging statement  for a lay investor. Whilst the report  states 
that the investment was high-risk, Mr C received assurances from Pacific  that it was
still a good investment.
Ref: DRN59604296Pacific should have clearly advised against  the investment. Pacific  providing  general 
risks wasnt  enough
The ombudsman said Mr C was committed to the investment. However, The FCA 
Alert makes it clear that advisers  cannot  evade liability on this basis,  as advisers 
have duties to consider  the client's  overall  financial situation,  to ensure that the client  
receives suitable advice and to prevent the client from making unsuitable investment 
decisions.
The investment  couldnt have happened without the SIPP  transfer, so if Pacific  had 
given suitable  advice Mr Cs losses could have been prevented.
my findings
Ive carefully considered  the response  provided by Mr Cs representative, however, my 
decision remains the same. Ill explain why.
Pacific should have recommended against  the transfer, even if Mr C was committed to the 
intended investment.  So I agree with Mr Cs representative that there were failings in the 
advice process here. And I also agree that suitable  advice could have prevented Mr Cs 
losses. 
However, I need to decide what I think on balance-  would have happened if Pacific had 
advised against the transfer. And based on the information I have I still think  its more likely 
than not Mr C would have proceeded with the transfer anyway (and would have incurred his 
losses). A positive recommendation from Pacific  wasnt legally necessary to open a SIPP. 
So if Pacific  had advised against  the transfer Mr C still could have opened a SIPP and 
proceeded with an investment. 
The suitability report suggests Mr C had already  invested in two overseas properties. 
However, I accept that its possible this wasnt recorded  properly  and the second property 
mentioned was the one he was about to invest in through the SIPP. This doesnt change  the 
fact though that Mr C had invested before into Harlequin using mortgage funds, an 
undertaking that I dont think anyone would take lightly.
I appreciate that Mr Cs representative  says a professional advisers advice would have  
outweighed any advice given by the introducer. And generally I would agree that people  
would put considerable  trust into a financial adviser.  But Mr C had an existing relationship 
with the introducer and obviously  trusted her enough to take on a further mortgage based on 
her recommendation about Harlequin and I have to consider that the introducer  was still 
helping Mr C to organise the investment and likely continuing to point out the advantages of 
the investment.  So its likely, in this particular case, he would have listened more  to what  the 
introducer was telling  him, rather  than an adviser  that he had only met shortly  before.
I agree  that Pacific  didnt go far enough  as they didnt recommend  against the transfer  and 
didnt specifically say the investment was unsuitable. However, I cant  see any evidence  that 
Pacific said to Mr C this was a good investment.  
Mr Cs representatives referred to the part of the suitability report that said will benefit from 
ongoing professional advice and will have access to a much improved investment platform".  
However, this relates to the benefit of investing into a family trust with Mrs C rather  than 
have two separate SIPPs. I cant agree  that this encouraged Mr C to think  Harlequin was a 
Ref: DRN59604297good investment.  I think its more  likely  that he understood  this was a high risk investment, 
but trusted  the assurances and information  given by the introducer. 
I agree  with Mr Cs representative that cancelling the reservation fee of the property on its 
own wouldnt  have been quite a big step, particularly if the alternative was continued 
payments into an ill-advised investment. However, Mr C had already taken out a mortgage  to 
invest into another Harlequin  property and reserved another. I remain of the opinion  that it 
would have taken  quite a lot to accept that these  investments werent right for him and 
ideally should  have to be rewound somehow.  In hindsight this might  seem a small price  to 
pay to avoid losses to your pension. But at the time, having committed  to overseas 
investments with Harlequin  before,  I think  its likely he wouldnt have changed his mind-even 
if Pacific had told him not to transfer.  
my final decision
My decision  is to uphold  Mr Cs complaint but I wont ask Pacific IFA Limited to pay any 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5960429