K822xcomplaint
Mrs G is unhappy with Great Lakes  Insurance SEs (Great Lakes) handling of a subsidence
claim she made under her building insurance  policy.
background 
In 2018, Mrs G became  worried after noticing  a problem with the floor of her conservatory,
which appeared to be dipping in places. She instructed a contractor to inspect the floor to
identify the source  of the damage. When they indicated  there  were  signs of subsidence, she
contacted Great Lakes.
It sent engineers  to Mrs Gs home in September and November 2018. They  carried  out a
trial pit excavation,  and accepted subsidence  had occurred in the conservatory.  The
engineer found  the clay soil underneath the property was susceptible  to shrinkage due to the
water demands of nearby vegetation. He said evidence of roots had been found down to 2
meters. The engineer said the depth of the foundation at 340mm  was inadequate for clay
soil, and the foundations  should be at least 1m deep   and potentially deeper as the
vegetation was present  when the conservatory was built almost 20 years ago. Based on this,
Great Lakes declined Mrs Gs claim.
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mrs G asked  us to look into her complaint. Our
investigator said Great Lakes hadnt  demonstrated the conservatory hadnt been  built to the
regulations in place at the time the conservatory was built.  And on this basis, he thought  it
should settle Mrs Gs claim in line with the policy terms.
In response to our investigators view, Great Lakes said the conservatory was exempt from
building regulations at the time of construction. However, it considered  the design should  be
measured against good construction  practice at the time, and referred to a set of guidelines,
which set out the minimum  depth  for foundations would have been 1m given the high 
shrinkability clay typically found in the area.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 October 2020.  My provisional findings  said:  
I need  to decide  if Great Lakes is acting fairly in relying on the below  term to decline Mrs 
Gs claim:
damage caused by faulty or unsuitable  materials, design or poor workmanship. 
And this clause, as it set out in the final response  letter:
Loss or damage caused by compaction  of infill or Settlement, shrinkage or
expansion of the building..."
Great Lakes engineer says the trees that caused  the clay shrinkage were present when the
conservatory was built almost 20 years ago. Great  Lakes engineer  also confirmed the
conservatory was exempt  from building regulations at the time it was built.
However, he went on to say as the trees were present, in his view guidelines from another
organisation involved in the building of new homes ought to have been considered, as they
set out good construction  practice at the time the conservatory was built.  These  guidelines
set out that foundations should  be dug to at least 1m deep, and deeper if there is existing
Ref: DRN53426562nearby vegetation,  which  Great Lakes say was the case. However, as Mrs Gs conservatory
wasnt built as a new home or by that organisation. Im not persuaded those guidelines  apply
to this conservatory. For this reason, I dont think those guidelines  are relevant to the claim
for the conservatory  and I wont consider them further.
Great Lakes has accepted the damage  caused was as a result of clay shrinkage subsidence
as a result  of the water demands  of nearby vegetation. It also appears  to have accepted the
conservatory has been in place for almost 20 years  without  incurring  any damage.
While the building  regulations wouldnt have applied to this conservatory, they can be
considered a guideline  for what might have  been expected to be good  practice.  The building
regulations in force when the conservatory  was built set out foundations  should be dug to a
minimum depth of 900mm, whereas the depth of the conservatory  foundations here are
340mm.
And while I need to consider what might have  been good building  practice  at the time the
conservatory was built, I also need to consider the fact Mrs Gs conservatory has stood for
almost 20 years without incident,  or evidence that the workmanship was poor.
In balancing these considerations. Im mindful  the evidence shows  if the conservatory
foundation had been dug to a minimum depth of 900mm as Great Lakes indicated it should
have been, it is more likely that it still would have  been affected  by subsidence given the
high shrinkability of the clay in the area, because roots were found  as deep as 2000mmm.
However, while the minimum depth of 900mm was to be in line with building regulations at
the time,  the conservatory was exempt from these regulations.
On this basis Im minded  to conclude it would be unfair to decline Mrs Gs claim because
even if the depth of the foundations had been  900mm, its still likely that the conservatory
would have been affected by subsidence.  On that basis. Im intending to direct Great Lakes
to settle the claim  in line with the policy terms and conditions.
In addition to this, I think Great Lakes has caused a some upset and worry to Mrs G by
unfairly declining the claim. Weve been  told by her representatives this has caused her a
great deal of worry. With that in mind, Im intending to direct  Great  Lakes to pay Mrs G £200
in recognition of the trouble and upset its caused her since March 2019  as a result  of
unfairly declining this claim.
Mrs G, through her representatives, accepted  my provisional decision, as did Great Lakes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis neither  party has asked  me to consider  any additional evidence, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I outlined in my provisional  decision.
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im directing Great  Lakes to settle Mrs Gs claim in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN53426563In addition to this, Mrs G has been impacted by Great Lakes unfairly  declining  the claim. 
Weve been told by her representatives this has caused her a great deal of worry. With that 
in mind, Great Lakes  should also pay Mrs G £200  in recognition  of the trouble and upset its 
caused her since March 2019 as a result of unfairly declining  this claim.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint against  Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5342656