K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that  having contacted Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) about  a 
passbook he had for an old account  which showed a balance  of £50, Barclays  said it cant 
trace the account, although  it previously  said the account was closed and the residual  funds 
had been paid out.
background 
Mr G found a passbook  for an account  he held initially  with Woolwich, then taken over by 
Barclays. Inside the passbook it said this book must  beat the bank when making  deposits  
and withdrawals and in January and July each year so that it may be written  up to date. The 
passbook, following a withdrawal of £6.65,  showed the final balance was £50. Mr G 
confirmed the last date in the book was from 1970.
When Mr G discovered  the passbook he contacted Barclays to make an enquiry about  the 
outstanding balance. In August 2018  Barclays  replied, initially  explaining that the account 
was still open  and available for use. But then the British Bankers Association  confirmed  to 
Mr G that the account couldnt be traced  and Barclays then said the account  had been  
closed on 20 January 2018  and the residual funds  had been paid out (or transferred, as 
Mr G also holds a number  of other  accounts  with Barclays).
In its final response Barclays accepted  that it had provided conflicting information  about the 
account. But it confirmed  that it hadnt  been unable to locate the account  on its dormancy 
register. It offered to pay Mr G the outstanding £50 into one of his existing accounts and also 
another £25 for the inconvenience caused by providing misleading  information.
But Mr G remained  unhappy with the outcome and he brought  his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said he thought,  on balance and given 
the passage of time, it was likely the account had been closed or converted to another 
account many years  ago. But he did accept that Barclays had provided  incorrect information 
about the account and that its offer of £75 - in total,  was fair and reasonable. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said he was upset  that he never received the refund that Barclays said 
it paid out. He didnt want to accept  Barclays offer of compensation as he was unsure what  
had happened  and didnt think Barclays had treated him fairly. So as no resolution could be 
found the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Mr G feels strongly about the way Barclays  has treated him over this matter 
and he wants to know what  happened  to the refund  Barclays said it made to him. 
And Ive got some  sympathy for his position  as hes still unclear about what  happened  to his 
money. But I think what Barclays has offered as compensation in the circumstances of the 
complaint is fair and reasonable which I know will disappoint Mr G, so Ill explain why.
Historically, with many accounts,  customers were  given a passbook  for those accounts. This 
would usually be presented if someone wanted  to withdraw  any money, and would  usually 
have a hand written  entry   as in the case  of Mr Gs passbook  to keep a record  of the 
Ref: DRN58313362account balance.  But that wasnt compulsory once banks and building societies began  using 
computers for record-keeping, and there were other ways to make  withdrawals  or to close  
accounts, without  seeing, or updating,  the passbook for the account.  
So the last record  that Ive seen  in Mr Gs passbook from 1970  when the outstanding 
balance was £50  is only evidence of what the account balance was on the date of that 
entry. It doesnt prove whether any further transactions have been made or that the account 
is still open.
If the account was still open, but dormant,  I think Barclays would be able to show  a record  of 
it, since it keeps records of such accounts indefinitely. But records of closed accounts can be 
deleted six years after they are closed,  and as theres no evidence that Mr Gs account  is still 
in existence I think  its most likely that Mr Gs account was closed and the balance withdrawn 
or paid into one of the other  accounts  he now holds.
Weve asked Barclays to conduct a full search of its dormancy register   at all the addresses 
Mr G has provided  from 1970. And Im satisfied that  having looked  at the screenshots, 
Barclays can find no trace of the account which does suggest  that it was closed. Barclays 
thinks the account number may have changed  but as it only holds information dating back to 
1997 it cant confirm  that.
 
Mr G has suggested another explanation for why Barclays  cant  find the account  is that it 
was originally a Woolwich  account,  and the records may have been lost when the 
Woolwichs accounts were transferred to Barclays systems. I cant  prove  that didnt happen, 
but theres no evidence that it did. So I dont think I can safely say thats the most  likely 
explanation here.
However, despite the evidence suggesting its more than likely that the account was closed 
or converted  and the balance either  paid out or transferred, Barclays  has offered to repay  
Mr G the £50 that its been unable to trace. I think thats fair in the circumstances. We 
wouldnt usually expect  the balance to be adjusted to what it should be worth in todays 
money because the loss of its value is mostly down to inflation which is an inherent risk with 
cash deposits. 
Ive also seen how Barclays did provide Mr G with conflicting information when he first 
enquired about  the account. I think it raised Mr Gs expectation by telling him that the 
account was still open  although I note it corrected this information and gave an explanation 
for why it had said that in its final response letter less than a month later.  But I think  that 
misleading information has meant Mr G is unable to trust Barclays over this matter  and hes 
upset that he didnt receive  the money Barclays initially suggested it had paid him when it 
said it closed the account. So I think,  overall,  this did cause Mr G some amount of distress 
and inconvenience.  
But Barclays  has accepted that and made an offer of £25 as compensation. I think   given 
the impact this had on Mr G, thats a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances.
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  made an offer to pay £25 for the inconvenience it 
caused Mr G and £50 as a goodwill gesture to refund of the outstanding balance  of his 
account from 1970. So my decision is that Barclays should pay £75.
Ref: DRN58313363Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5831336