K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited issued him with card that 
has contactless technology built into it. He says this is a security risk and he neither wants it 
nor asked for it. He wants a replacement card that isnt contactless.
background
American Express said in its final response that, unlike some  other card issuers, its taken 
the business decision that all its personal card products will be contactless. This means, 
unfortunately, it cannot issue  Mr H with the card he wants. In doing  so its taken account of 
the risk of fraud.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said American Express made a 
business decision to only issue  contactless card products.  Its taken account of the risk of 
fraud and reassured  Mr H that he wouldnt  be liable  for any fraud on his account  if it should 
ever occur. American Express has acted correctly and in line with its policies. She cant  ask 
it to do any more. Mr H can end his agreement without charge  if he doesnt want to accept 
the change its made.
Mr H remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says he doesnt 
understand how its absolutely fine for a financial institution to allow  its customers to be 
victims of fraud.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr Hs concerns about the security of the contactless  card he was sent by 
American Express. And that he wants it replaced with one that isnt contactless.
American Express has explained that it has reviewed its policies and made the commercial 
decision to only issue its personal  customers with contactless cards.  And in doing  so its 
considered the security  implications. 
Thats a commercial decision  American Express is entitled to make  and isnt something we 
would normally interfere  with. What is clear is that its treated Mr H in the same way as all its 
other customers and applied its new policy to him fairly. And it says it cannot  provide him 
with a card that isnt contactless.
It may well be that other card providers may still issue non contactless cards. But thats a 
matter for them and American  Express isnt obliged to do the same if it doesnt wish to.
Consequently although I recognise Mr Hs frustration I dont think  American Express  has 
done anything  wrong. And I cant fairly  or reasonably require  it to provide Mr H with a 
contactless card as hed like.
As the adjudicator has said if Mr H isnt prepared to accept the contactless card he is free to 
close his account  with American Express  in line with its terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN55835302my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5583530