K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the charge thats been made  by PSA Finance UK Limited, trading as 
Citroen Financial Services, after he returned  a car at the end of his hire purchase 
agreement. 
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement  with Citroen Financial 
Services that he signed in November 2015.  He returned the car at the end of his hire 
purchase agreement  and it was inspected by a third party on behalf  of Citroen Financial 
Services in November 2018. The inspection identified that the cars service history  was 
incomplete and a charge of £200 was recommended. Mr W complained to Citroen Financial 
Services and it offered to reduce the charge to £150. But Mr W wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
agreement clearly set out that a stamp in the cars  service history was required for each 
service. And he said that the charge reflected the cars potential loss in value as a result  of it 
appearing to have  no service history. He said that he was unable  to comment  on Mr Ws 
claim that hed been promised  that the car would be worth more  than the buy-out value at 
the end of the contract.  And he concluded  that he couldnt say that Citroen Financial 
Services had made  an error.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that:
no one reads the small print and any important facts that might constitute a final 
charge shouldve been clearly  stated by the dealer  but he was told nothing about 
having to get a stamp in the service  history;
the dealer  agrees that the charge is ridiculous;
the dealer  stated  that the car would be worth  more than the final payment value of 
£5,431  but he wasnt able to get within £1,500 of that price from anyone; and
the car had only completed 6,000 miles when  it was returned and was in mint 
condition so that should outweigh  any issue regarding  a missing service  stamp  - and 
most cars dont  need servicing for at least 12,000 miles.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W signed the hire purchase agreement  in November  2015.  Immediately above his 
signature it says:
This is a Hire Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms; 
and above that was a customer confirmation  in which  Mr W confirmed  that the terms and 
condition relating to the agreement were attached. 
Mr W says that he didnt  read the terms and conditions  but hed confirmed that they were 
attached to the agreement  and hed agreed  to be bound by them. So I consider that hed 
Ref: DRN59640942accepted the terms and conditions  and agreed to be bound by them   even if he hadnt 
read them. 
And it was clear from the terms and conditions that a stamp  in the cars service  history was 
required. The car had been serviced but the service  history hadnt been  stamped. And that 
means that the cars  service history isnt complete  which  is likely  to affect the cars  future  
value (or to cause  Citroen  Financial  Services additional work in getting the service history 
corrected). So I consider  that a charge for the incomplete service history is justified in these  
circumstances. Citroen  Financial Services has offered to reduce the charge from £200 to 
£150 as a gesture of goodwill. And I consider  that to be fair and reasonable. 
The inspection report shows that the cars mileage was only 6,243  miles when the car was 
returned and that there  was no damage  to the car. But Mr W had agreed to keep the car in 
good condition.  And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Citroen Financial Services to waive the charge  that its made  because  of the good condition 
in which  Mr W had returned  the car  or its low mileage.
The hire purchase agreement clearly sets out the payments that were  required from Mr W. 
The price  of the car was £9,899, there  was an advance payment of £2,000  and the total 
amount of credit was £10,886.64.  That was to be paid by 36 monthly payments of £95.99 
and an optional final payment of £5,431. Mr W had agreed the price  for the car with the 
dealer and hed agreed to make the payments to Citroen Financial Services   and it was his 
choice to sign the agreement. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  that 
the dealer promised Mr W that the car would be worth more  than the amount of the final 
payment  or that its likely that it wouldve  done  so.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Citroen  Financial Services  has 
acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr W. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to waive the charge for the incomplete service  history or to pay him any 
compensation  or to take any other  action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5964094