K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank  plc (TSB) refuses to refund around £39,000 that he says was 
taken from his bank  account by an acquaintance without his authority.  Mr P wants TSB to 
refund his losses and explain why they didnt spot and prevent the fraudulent spending. Hes 
also unhappy TSB closed his account.
background
Mr P inherited almost  £100,000 from a close relative and deposited this in his TSB current 
account. A little over three  weeks later Mr P contacted TSB to report fraud on his account 
amounting to around £39,000.
When he reported the fraud he told TSB that he still had his debit card, and he was unable to 
say how someone else knew his PIN. He later told TSB that a known third party had stolen his 
card from his home but later returned  it. But he still couldnt say how that third party had known 
his PIN. TSB declined  to refund him; they felt the spending had been  authorised  by Mr P.
TSB responded to Mr Ps complaint and maintained the decision not to offer him a refund. 
They said:
there was no explanation for how the PIN had been compromised;
the disputed spending did not look like the activity of a third party fraudster;
one of the merchants  was owned by someone  known to Mr P and yet Mr P hadnt 
approached them  for CCTV  footage of the fraudster; and
they had taken the decision  to close his account after a risk review.
When TSB sent us their file they said they thought Mr P had made or otherwise authorised  
the transactions he claimed were fraudulent.
What Mr P told us
Mr P initially  told our investigator that after his close relative died he was vulnerable, and had 
people around  him who he now realises he shouldnt have had in his house. He said hed 
been out for drinks one evening and invited a group of people,  including the third party, back  
to his house. He described the third party as someone he knew  of rather than a friend.  The 
following morning he couldnt find his debit card. Later he checked  his account and realised 
the balance was much lower than he expected. He said he called the bank to report the 
transactions, and then rang the third party, and asked him if he had his card. The third party  
told Mr P hed picked it up accidentally. Mr Ps recollection was that the next day the card 
was returned through  his letter box.
Mr P couldnt say how the third party had known his PIN, but he said it was possible hed 
seen it over his shoulder, perhaps when he entered it at a cash machine during the evening 
out. He said he didnt have his PIN written down  anywhere. He explained that he hadnt  
mentioned this third party when  he first contacted TSB because he was scared. He told us 
that the third party has a history of violence and criminal convictions. He also said that when 
he contacted TSB he didnt know that the third party had his card.
Our investigator asked  Mr P about  his recollection of the events a number of times. Over the 
course of these conversations Mr P made some changes to his story. He said the following:
Ref: DRN50786172he recalled withdrawing cash during the evening out but thought it was a small amount 
 he estimated this happened between 11pm and midnight;
he couldnt remember when theyd left the pub or when  the third party  left his house, but 
said he would  usually  stay in the pub until about  11pm and that he would have asked  
the group to leave his house around  2am;
he thinks  he would  have put his card down on a table when he got home;
he didnt  initially think hed made a transaction to a takeaway delivery company that 
happened late on the evening out - hes never  ordered food from the takeaway delivery 
company used and its not something  he would  usually do;
he later said he thinks he might  have given one of the group his card to order the food 
and that he probably agreed because he was drunk and taken advantage  of;
he passed out after the evening at the pub;
he woke up the following  morning around 10.30-11.00am and noticed  his card was 
missing straightaway;
when he couldnt find his card he panicked but he wasnt too worried because he didnt 
think anyone would  use it, and he wasnt expecting anyone to take money out;
he found  out how to get in touch with the third party through social media  contacts;
at the point when  he rang the third party to see if he had his card he didnt  realise there 
had been any transactions;
he had an inkling the third party had his card but didnt know for sure thats  whod done  
the spending until he visited one of the merchants and they described the third party;
one of the merchants  where some disputed  transactions took place was owned by 
someone Mr P knew;
he became aware of the transactions when he went to withdraw  cash  and saw that he 
only had a couple of hundred pounds left;
he couldnt remember exactly when the card had been returned  through  his letter box 
but said he probably did have the card before he telephoned  TSB because it was by 
using the card in a cash  machine  hed discovered his reduced balance;
it was when  he went to withdraw £250 that he noticed the transactions;  and
hed had papers lying about the house which would probably  have shown hed recently 
inherited money.
Throughout our investigation Mr P was very keen  that CCTV be obtained from the various 
merchants where the disputed  transactions took place. He asked us to think  about  whether 
he would  have been pushing for that evidence if it hed done the spending himself. 
Unfortunately, CCTV has not been available to us. However, although CCTV can be helpful 
in corroborating a story and identifying whether or not it was the card holder who made the 
transactions, it wouldnt usually provide a conclusive answer as to whether the transactions 
were authorised.
Our investigators view and Mr Ps response
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said it had been  very difficult  to reach  a 
view on whether or not Mr P had authorised the disputed spending. But overall he thought  
Mr Ps story about the third party was plausible and the transactions were more likely  than 
not unauthorised. However, he said that TSB were still entitled to hold Mr P liable for the 
losses because hed failed with gross negligence to meet his obligation  to tell TSB about  his 
lost card without undue  delay.
He also said that TSB hadnt done anything wrong by not alerting Mr P to the spending. He 
pointed out that Mr P had been making  large  payments from the account in the preceding 
Ref: DRN50786173days. And when TSB had blocked  the purchase  of a watch  (from a merchant where a 
disputed transaction  later took place)  Mr P had confirmed it as genuine.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators view. He accepted that his version  of events had not 
always been clear  and that hed forgotten some of the timings.  He said he thought hed 
called TSB to report the transactions late afternoon on the day after the evening  out.
He also said hed been suffering distress and trauma after his close  relatives  death,  and 
that going to the pub and having people back to his house was not a crime. He said hed 
been naive to trust the people he was socialising  with, but he didnt agree hed been  grossly 
negligent. Mr P said TSB should have done  more to protect his funds. He asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the case afresh.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 7 February 2020.  In that decision  I acknowledged that 
when considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes  of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.  
Ill set out the relevant considerations below.
Of particular relevance to my decision about  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment  Services Regulations 2009 (the PSR 
2009) which apply to transactions  like the ones Mr P disputes. Among other things the PSR 
2009 include  the following:
Regulation 55 of the PSR 2009 explains:
(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised  by the payer  
for the purposes  of this Part only if the payer has given  its consent to 
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; ...
(2) Such consent 
(b) must  be given in the form,  and in accordance with the procedure, agreed 
between the payer and its payment  service  provider.
Regulation 62 of the PSR 2009 explains:
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
Regulation 57 sets out the obligations of a payment  service user. It says:
(1) A payment service user to whom  a payment instrument has been  issued must
(a) use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions  
governing its issue  and use; and
(b) notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without 
undue delay on becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or 
unauthorised use of the payment instrument.
Ref: DRN50786174(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all 
reasonable steps to keep its personalised security features  safe.
Gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with "gross  negligence"  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not 
defined in the PSR 2009 or in the Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
"In order  to assess possible negligence  or gross  negligence on the part of the payment service 
user account  should be taken  of all of the circumstances. The evidence  and degree of alleged  
negligence should generally be evaluated according to national  law. However while  the 
concept of negligence implies a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should mean more 
than mere negligence, involving conduct  exhibiting a significant degree of carelessness,  for 
example keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction beside the payment 
instrument in a format that is open and easily detectable by third parties..."
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services
Regulations 2017, says: "... we interpret "gross negligence" to be a higher standard than the 
standard of negligence under common law. The customer needs to have shown a very 
significant degree of carelessness."
Although not specific to this case,  the FCAs interpretation is of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretive guidance, and because  it 
informs the meaning  of a concept  that had been in place for some time in the Banking  Code.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. And, as I have 
described above, the use of gross negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a lack 
of care that goes significantly  beyond ordinary  negligence or carelessness. So, if I find the 
disputed transactions  were unauthorised,  I have to consider whether Mr Ps actions fell so far 
below the standard of a reasonable person that he failed with gross  negligence to meet his 
obligations as a payment service user or to comply  with his accounts terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ps account
The following  sections of TSBs Personal  Banking  terms  and conditions  are relevant to this 
complaint:
4.6 You must tell us as soon as you can (see the contact details section) if you:
 (c) think any cards or Security  Details have been  lost, stolen, damaged  or are 
being misused; 
17.3 We may end this agreement (or any account  or service under it): 
(a) by writing to you and giving you 2 months notice; 
Having set out the relevant considerations in my provisional decision,  in summary, I made 
the following  findings:
I said there were three key questions relevant to my consideration about  what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances:
Ref: DRN50786175Did Mr P give his consent to the disputed transactions?
Did Mr P fail with intent or gross  negligence to meet his obligations as a payment 
service user or to comply with his accounts  terms and conditions?
Whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint?
I used what Mr P had told us and the evidence provided by TSB to compile an 
approximate timeline of how the events  unfolded. I noted that Mr P had changed his 
story (in particular the order of events),  but as he said he had his card back when he 
discovered the transactions (and that is supported  by TSBs fraud notes),  I said it 
follows that he must have suspected and contacted the third party, received his card 
back, noticed his reduced  balance, and then called  TSB.
I provisionally found that Mr P either made  the transactions  himself or authorised the 
use of his card and PIN by a known third party. I said this for the following reasons:
-Mr P had his card when he reported the transactions to TSB  if a third party  had 
stolen the card from Mr P there would have  been  no reason for them to identify 
themselves as the thief and then return the card to him;
-Although its possible  that a third party observed Mr P entering his PIN during  the 
evening out, I thought  it unlikely  theyd have committed it to memory in the 
expectation theyd  be invited back to his house  and have  the chance to take the 
card later;
-Mr Ps version of events seemed inaccurate based on the transaction timings  
the decrease in chip and PIN activity in the pub and a transaction to an off licence 
later on 5 July suggested that Mr P didnt stay in the pub until 11pm;
-The pattern of transactions on the day after the evening out is unusual for a 
fraudster who youd  expect to try to maximise  their gain before the card is 
reported lost or stolen   the spending  took place  across  the course of a whole 
day at merchants in areas surrounding  Mr Ps home;
-The disputed transactions were a combination of high value transactions  and 
more day-to-day  spending of the kind that might  be expected  from the genuine 
card holder;
-The available balance of the account was not fully used before the card was 
returned to Mr P;
-Hes said he noticed his card was missing at around 10.30am  on 6 July (the day 
after the evening  out) but there is no evidence he reported anything  to TSB until 
after 6pm on 7 July;
-He didnt report his card lost even though  he suspected it had been  taken by a 
third party  who he only knew of and who he says he knew had a history of 
criminality  he had no reason to trust that the third party  wouldnt use the card;
-When his card was returned he still waited to check whether the third party had 
used it until late the following  day;
-Mr P has not been able to explain why he suspected the third party, rather  than 
any other member of the group,  of having  his card;
-One of the merchants  where the disputed transactions took place was owned by 
someone Mr P knew yet he took no steps  to secure that merchants CCTV of the 
third party  completing  the transactions;
-He said he didnt  know the third party had done  the spending until he visited one 
of the merchants and they described the third party   I said this seems like an 
odd detail to add to the story  when  Mr P supposedly suspected  the third party of 
Ref: DRN50786176having his card, the third party admitted hed picked  it up accidentally, and after 
that contact the card was returned  to Mr P  I found it implausible that in these 
circumstances Mr P would have been in any doubt about whod had his card on 
6 July and made the transactions;
-One of the merchants  contacted by our service (the merchant where £22,000  
was spent) said that their usual  practice  is to require  photo ID of the card holder 
before accepting a card payment  for over £5,000  this suggests that Mr P would 
have needed to be present when transactions at that merchant were made; and
-Mr P said that when he discovered  the disputed transactions he had only a 
couple of hundred pounds left in his account, but I thought  the balance when he 
checked it would have been  somewhere between £3,000  and £7,000 depending 
on which transactions were pending  at that point.
Taking all these  factors  into account I provisionally found  that Mr Ps story of what  
happened to his card wasnt credible. Although I accepted theres a possibility that 
the third party  observed Mr P entering his PIN sometime during the evening out, left 
his house in the early hours  of 6 July with his card, carried  out almost  £39,000 worth 
of transactions,  and then admitted to Mr P that hed had his card and returned it, I 
didnt think thats what had happened here.
I acknowledged its possible  that Mr P allowed the third party to use his card and PIN 
for a specified transaction or type of transaction, and that the third party  then 
exceeded Mr Ps actual authority while he had the card. That might  explain why Mr P 
has been prepared  to report what happened to Action Fraud  and name the third party 
involved. But I said that doesnt  mean the transactions the third party made were 
unauthorised for the purposes  of the PSR 2009.
Although I provisionally concluded  that Mr P made or otherwise authorised the 
transactions he disputes, I acknowledged  this was a finely balanced decision and 
went on to consider whether he failed with intent  or gross  negligence to meet his 
obligations as a payment service user.
I said I think a reasonable  payment service user who woke  to find their card missing 
after a night drinking  with acquaintances, one of whom  they knew to have criminal 
convictions, would report to their bank that theyd lost their card almost immediately. 
The risk that someone might be able to make use of their card would have been 
obvious.
I said I didnt think it was reasonable for Mr P to think his PIN was safe  he might not 
have been able to identify  a clear point of compromise, but he knew  hed been in 
close proximity  with people he didnt know well all evening,  and now his card was 
missing. He also knew he had a balance of around  £46,000  available.  I said he 
should have recognised  his funds were at risk.
I said Mr Ps decision not to report his card lost or stolen to TSB was significantly 
careless, and his inaction fell so far below the standard I would expect of a 
reasonable person in a similar  position that I think it amounted to gross negligence.
So I provisionally found that even  if I did think the transactions  were unauthorised,  Id 
still be of the view that TSB would be entitled  to hold Mr P liable for the losses.
Ref: DRN50786177With regards to Mr Ps complaint that TBS didnt spot and block  the activity on his 
account on 6 July, I acknowledged that its good industry practice  for banks to have 
in place measures  to detect and prevent fraud and financial abuse. Activity such  as a 
sudden increase in spending, changes to the operation of an account, and large  
value payments could  be signs of suspicious transactions which  should  be verified as 
genuine with the customer.  However,  I didnt  agree with Mr P that TSB should  have 
recognised the account activity on 6 July as suspicious.
Given recent account activity, the fact that the high value transactions  were all within 
an area surrounding Mr Ps home, and the fact that they were interspersed  with more 
day-to-day spending, I didnt think it unreasonable that TSB didnt block the account 
on this occasion.
With regards to the closure  of Mr Ps account I provisionally found  that TSB acted  
reasonably. They  were entitled to view Mr Ps custom as a risk, and to mitigate that 
risk by closing his account.  I noted that Mr P was given plenty of notice of TSBs 
intention (60 days) so that he could make alternative arrangements.  This step was 
also provided for in the terms and conditions of the account.
responses to my provisional  findings
In response to my provisional decision neither party had any comments. However, in 
response to a request for clarification about  the timings of the transactions, TSB confirmed 
that the card transaction audit theyd previously sent us was in Greenwich Mean Time, not 
British Summer Time (BST   the time applicable to when these events happened).
TSB also supplied a different version  of the card audit  report  (using BST). This version 
included the timings of the cash machine transactions,  and some additional information 
about declined  transactions and balance enquiries.  This information had not been made 
available before due to technical issues.
Using this information  Ive updated  the timeline I included in my provisional  decision.
timeline of events
Date Time (BST)
Activity Amount
16 June  
29 June/ Mr P made several large value transactions to 
merchants and payees.£8,800 - 
£10,000 x3
29 June / TSB blocked Mr Ps account in response to his 
attempted purchase  of a watch  Mr P confirmed 
the transaction genuine and the block was lifted.£2,900
5 July 6.36pm Transaction in pub. £7.00
7.09pm Cash withdrawn from cash machine opposite the 
pub.£100
8.36pm Transaction in pub. £39.30
8.42pm Transaction in pub. £8.70
9.09pm Transaction to an off licence 0.5 miles from pub. £25
10.44-46pm
Three failed attempts to withdraw £200  from cash 
machine opposite the pub./
10.46pm Cash withdrawn from cash machine opposite the 
pub.£150
Ref: DRN5078617811.30pm Transaction to takeaway  delivery  company. £14.49
6 July 12:42am Cash withdrawn from cash machine a short walk 
from Mr Ps home.£200
3:49am Failed attempt  to withdraw  £150 from cash 
machine opposite the pub./
4.04am Transaction to petrol garage a short drive from Mr 
Ps home.£31.54
4.08am Balance enquiry  and cash withdrawn from cash 
machine at petrol garage.£60
12.06  
07pmFailed attempts  to withdraw  £250 and £150 from 
same cash  machine at petrol garage.
12.08pm Transaction to petrol garage a short drive from Mr 
Ps home.£9.69
12:25pm Balance enquiry  at a cash machine near shopping 
centre a short  drive from Mr Ps home.
12.45pm  7.01pm
28 card transactions  to various merchants 
including petrol  garages,  sports retailers, 
pawnbrokers, jewellers, a high-end mens clothing  
retailer, supermarkets, newsagents,  a health-food 
shop, a chemist, a mobile phone retailer, a 
beautician and a pub.£17.10 - 
£22,000
8.20pm Failed attempt  to withdraw  £150 from cash 
machine a short drive  from Mr Ps home,  and two 
declined point of sale transactions  for £5.87 each.
10.21pm Failed point of sale transaction for £12.87 at petrol  
garage a short drive from Mr Ps home.
unknown Mr P contacts the third party and confirms 
suspicion that he has his card./
unknown Mr Ps card was returned to him. /
10.58pm Mr P speaks to a TSB agent via telephone  
banking and makes  a payment to a friend.£200
7 July 12.03am Cash withdrawn from cash machine in area local 
to Mr Ps home.£250
12.24am Transaction to a fast food restaurant a short walk 
from Mr Ps home.£6.79
8.25am  4.31 
pm Mr P makes  five card transactions  to various  
merchants including  supermarkets,  a fast-food 
outlet, and a pawnbroker.£13.57 - 
£1,800
5.58pm Balance enquiry  and failed attempt to withdraw 
£250 from cash machine  a 20-minute  drive from 
Mr Ps house./
6.02pm Mr P speaks to a TSB agent via telephone  
banking./
6.56pm Mr P speaks to a TSB agent via telephone  
banking makes a payment to a friend.£300
7.23pm Notes of Mr Ps call attached to fraud claims 
system./
TSB explained in response to my enquiries that the failed cash withdrawal attempts were 
due to the daily withdrawal limit being  reached. There is no evidence of incorrect PIN 
attempts.
Ref: DRN50786179my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
For all the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, which  I have summarised above, I still 
think its more likely  than not that Mr P either  made the disputed  transactions  himself  or 
authorised someone  else to make them. And even  if the transactions  werent authorised, I 
dont think TSB are wrong  to hold Mr P liable because he failed in such a significant way by 
not reporting his card lost when he had the opportunity to do so.
Mr P has not provided any evidence  that would lead me to change  my provisional  conclusion 
that he made or otherwise  authorised  the disputed transactions.  Although the card audit 
report recently provided by TSB does support Mr Ps story that he left the pub on 5 July at 
around 11pm and withdrew cash on the way home,  I dont think this makes the rest of his 
story any more credible.
It is possible that the third party observed  Mr P entering his PIN between  6.36pm and 
10.46pm, memorised it, left Mr Ps house  in the early hours of 6 July with his card,  carried  
out almost £39,000  worth  of transactions, and then admitted to Mr P that hed had his card 
and returned it. But I still dont think thats whats happened here.
I remain of the view that a third party would have no reason to identify themselves and return 
the card in the way Mr P describes. I also think its likely a third party would want  to 
maximise their use of the card before detection, but the pattern of transactions  here is casual 
and takes place across  the course  of a day at locations close  to Mr Ps home.
Its possible that after leaving  Mr Ps house  the third party failed in their attempt to withdraw 
£150, decided  to try a point of sale transaction, was successful, checked the balance and 
then withdrew £60 as a test. But I dont think its likely a fraudster would then have left it 
eight hours  before trying to use the card again.
I also think Mr Ps actions  when he woke on the morning of 6 July suggest he knew where 
his card was. If it had genuinely  been taken by the third party without Mr Ps consent I think  
he would  have reported it much sooner.
Given that Mr P didnt report his card missing until long after the disputed  spending,  I think 
its possible that Mr P gave the third party his card and PIN for some reason, but the third 
party then exceeded  Mr Ps actual authority while he had the card.  If thats what  happened  
and Mr P placed his trust in someone who went further than what was agreed, I can see why 
hed be prepared to name, report and identify  them on CCTV. But Im afraid  that doesnt 
mean the transactions the third party made were unauthorised for the purposes of the PSR 
2009.
As I said in my provisional decision,  because Ive found Mr P made or otherwise authorised 
the transactions he disputes, I dont really  need  to consider what the position on liability 
would be if they were unauthorised.
However, if Im wrong about how Mr P was involved here and the transactions  werent 
permitted by him, I still wouldnt be asking TSB to refund  him. This is because despite  
Ref: DRN507861710knowing that his card was lost, and most  likely in the possession of a mere acquaintance 
with a history of criminality, Mr P waited until after 6pm on 7 July to report  anything untoward 
to the bank. Had he reported  his card missing at around 11am on 6 July all but about £92.00 
of spending by the third party could have been stopped.
In these circumstances I find that Mr P had a serious disregard for an obvious risk, and his 
inaction amounted  to a grossly negligent  failure  to meet  his obligations as a payment service  
user.
In conclusion, on the balance of the evidence, I think its more  likely than not that Mr P made 
or otherwise authorised the transactions that he disputes, and also failed to report  that his 
card was lost in a reasonable timeframe. On that basis, I find TSBs  refusal  to refund Mr P 
fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5078617