K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Skyfire includes their agents.
background
On 10 September  2018, Mrs B bought her car insurance policy  online through  a comparison 
website. The policy started  on 19 September. On 25 September,  Skyfire  asked Mrs B to 
provide some further information. When she did they discovered that she had been resident 
in the UK since 2010 whereas when taking out the policy she had declared  she had been 
resident since birth.  Skyfire spoke with Mrs B on 23 October regarding  the issue and decided 
to cancel her policy on the basis that she had made a deliberate misrepresentation.
Mrs B complained as she didnt think that was fair. But Skyfire didnt change their decision. 
So, Mrs B brought  her complaint to our service.  One of our adjudicators  looked  into it. She 
felt that Skyfires actions  were reasonable. As Mrs B didnt think  that was fair, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 30 June 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
When Mrs B was completing the online applications  for her policy she was asked 
how long she had been resident in the UK. That answer had two options: the first 
was to select since birth and the second to enter  the month  and date she became 
resident. The comparison  website has confirmed that at the time Mrs B completed 
her application  the answer to that question was already set as since  birth. They said 
some answers are pre-selected  to save customers time. But the customer has the 
option of changing the answer. Following  a separate complaint by Mrs B to the 
comparison website, they have since changed their website so that the answer isnt 
pre-selected as since  birth.
Mrs B has accepted that when she applied for her policy she ran a number of quotes, 
11 in total, using different details. She also ran quotes which said she was resident in 
the UK since  birth and also that she was resident since 2010  (the actual date she 
became a UK resident). She said she did that consciously so that she could see if 
there would be a price  difference  between  the two. She said she did that with other 
information as well. Although she said she never intended to take out the policy on 
the basis of incorrect  information, she was just curious to see what factors impacted 
the price.  Im aware that many other  policyholders do that to get an understanding  of 
why premium prices can be so different.
I note that even though the comparison website pre-selected the answer of the length 
of residency to since  birth, by running different quotes the way she did shows  that 
Mrs B was aware of how the website worked and she knew  how to change the 
answer even though  it was pre-selected. But I think when she came  to select the 
Ref: DRN54856262policy she wanted she simply made a careless  mistake by selecting  the quote  with 
the incorrect information.
I have listened  to the calls between Skyfire  and Mrs B very carefully when Skyfire 
challenged her. And I think  its very telling that Mrs B was very open and honest 
when explaining exactly what  she did and why she did it. She made  no attempt to 
hide or mislead  Skyfire.  And she sounded genuinely surprised and upset when she 
was told she selected the policy that had her wrong  residency date. This shows me 
its far more likely it was a careless mistake on her part than a deliberate decision.
Ive seen a document called Statement of Fact which is dated 19 September 2018, 
the date the policy started. That is a standard document  insurers  send policyholders 
when a new policy is taken out or when a policy is renewed. It confirms the important 
information on which the insurer agreed to provide  cover. That document  confirms 
that Mrs B has been resident in the UK since birth.  It also warned that the information 
should be read for accuracy and Mrs B should  immediately correct  any mistakes. It 
explained the consequences of giving incorrect information. But Mrs B didnt ask 
Skyfire to correct anything. The expectation is that Mrs B would  have read that 
document and corrected  the information regarding her residency. But far too often  
policyholders dont read their documentation. And the fact that Mrs B didnt contact 
Skyfire to make a correction doesnt  suggest to me she had any bad intent or tried to 
deliberately mislead  Skyfire.
But, ultimately, its correct that Mrs B did give Skyfire  incorrect  information when 
taking out her policy. That is known in the insurance  industry as a misrepresentation. 
And Skyfire  took the view that Mrs B made  a deliberate misrepresentation to get the 
cheapest quote possible. But, for the reasons given above, I am of the opinion  Mrs 
Bs misrepresentation was careless  and not deliberate.
Theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do if a 
policyholder has made  a misrepresentation when taking out a policy of insurance. 
The remedies available to the insurer are very different depending on the type of 
misrepresentation. Where  its a deliberate  or reckless misrepresentation it says that 
insurers: 
may avoid (treat as though it never existed) the insurance contract and refuse all 
claims, and
need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it 
would be unfair to the consumer to retain them.
But the position is very different where  a careless  misrepresentation has been made. 
If its the case that had the policyholder given the correct information the insurer 
would have offered  cover,  albeit on different terms or at a higher premium, then 
CIDRA says the options available to the insurer are as follows:
cancel the policy; or
tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  
(or apply other exclusions  or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied).  But if 
the consumer  isn't happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy 
themselves.
Ref: DRN54856263Our approach is that the fairest way to deal with a careless misrepresentation is for 
the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of them  paying  the additional premium  
which would mean  the insurer  would then settle any claim  in full instead of settling 
the claim proportionately.  And if the policyholder isnt happy  with paying an additional 
premium, the insurer should give the policyholder  the option  of cancelling the policy 
themselves. Thats because an insurer cancelling the policy will have  a detrimental 
effect on a policyholder as opposed  to the policyholder cancelling themselves.
In Mrs Bs case, Skyfire  have confirmed that had they known Mrs Bs correct 
residency date they would  have still insured her but at a higher cost.
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend  to require 
Skyfire to amend  all records, in particular external databases, to show  the policy 
wasnt cancelled by Skyfire as a result of a deliberate misrepresentation. Its 
particularly important that records are corrected especially  if Skyfire  have made  any 
reports to any of the fraud agencies/databases. The cancellation should be treated 
as having been done by Mrs B. Skyfire  should provide Mrs B with a letter  confirming 
the above. Mrs B can then contact her subsequent insurer and explain that the 
record has been corrected. That way her new insurer can recalculate her policy  
retrospectively to see if she is due a refund. 
Im aware that this matter has also been  a great  source of distress  and 
inconvenience for Mrs B. Im therefore  intending to require Skyfire  to pay her £300 
compensation to address the impact of that.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Mrs B accepted my 
provisional decision. Skyfire didnt agree with my provisional decision.  Skyfire quoted the 
following passage from my provisional  findings:
I have listened to the calls between Skyfire and Mrs B very carefully when  Skyfire  
challenged her. And I think  its very telling that Mrs B was very open and honest 
when explaining exactly what  she did and why she did it. She made  no attempt to 
hide or mislead  Skyfire.  And she sounded genuinely surprised and upset when she 
was told she selected the policy that had her wrong  residency date. This shows me 
its far more likely it was a careless mistake on her part than a deliberate decision.
Skyfire said: 
During Mrs [B]'s honesty, she told us she discussed the quotes she had obtained 
with her colleagues and they suggested changing  her UK residency date to get a 
cheaper quote. Following  this conversation  the quotes were  reactivated and changed 
to reflect  the incorrect  date of 'since birth' and the policy was purchased. This is not a 
careless mistake and is clearly deliberate to obtain  a cheaper price.
 
The business decision  was not based  on our thoughts of what  happened but what 
Mrs B told us happened as to why she gave the incorrect  information.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But Id like to respond to Skyfires comments as follows.
Ref: DRN54856264Skyfire have said that Mrs B told them she discussed the quotes she had obtained with her 
colleagues and they suggested changing her UK residency date to get a cheaper quote. I 
have listened  to the call again,  and that is not what Mrs B told Skyfire. What  she said was 
when she got into work  and discussed the quote she had got, her colleagues seemed 
surprised that her quote was high. Mrs B said her colleagues said everyone  else of the same  
age and in the same area had cheaper insurance  so they suggested she changes certain 
details, including  her residency  date, to see what the price comes up as. This suggests  to 
me that Mrs Bs colleagues, like Mrs B, were curious  to see what  factors  would impact  the 
price of her premium.  Which is why she changed  some details, including her residency date, 
on a number of the quotes. Mrs B said she was curious to know  what  would impact the 
price. But she said she selected  what she believed to be the quote that had the correct  
residency date. Given she ran a number of different quotes, I can see how she made the 
mistake of choosing the wrong one. 
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, Im not satisfied the evidence 
supports Skyfires belief  that Mrs B made a deliberate misrepresentation. A 
misrepresentation was made but I think it was careless. Skyfires  decision to cancel the 
policy was therefore  unreasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Correct all records/databases to show the policy wasnt cancelled because  of a 
deliberate misrepresentation. If Mrs B was reported to any fraud agencies, Skyfire 
should contact  the relevant agencies to correct their records. There shouldnt  be any 
records suggesting that Mrs B acted  fraudulently  or that she made  a deliberate  
misrepresentation. Skyfire  should  provide Mrs B with a letter confirming once this has 
been done.
Pay Mrs B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mrs B has accepted  my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they must  also pay interest  on that amount  
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple. 1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept
or reject my decision before 15 August 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman 
1 If Skyfire consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mrs B how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5485626