K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Intelligent Finance) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to him.
background
In 2001 Mr V took out PPI to protect  his repayments on a personal loan. He applied  for the 
loan online, the sale of the PPI took place later on the phone. The policy gave Mr V 
protection against accident, sickness and unemployment, and some life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint was not upheld. Mr V disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Mr V says he never asked  for PPI, didnt  need it and wasnt  told about it. The banks records 
show that Mr V began his loan application  online, getting an approval after he then sent in 
certain documents. A sample of the paper form which would have been sent out for Mr V to 
sign to confirm details  of his loan application  refers to PPI being available, gives some basic  
information and says someone would  call to explain the options available.  The banks 
records show that this call was made  around  a month after Mr Vs loan had been approved 
and the money  had been released  to him. So Mr V cant have thought he had to take PPI to 
get the loan. 
There is no call recording or copy of the script available,  which  isnt unreasonable  given how 
long ago the sale was. So I cant be sure exactly what  was said to Mr V on the phone.  Ive 
looked at the letter  he was sent after the call, this refers to the date he had chosen  for the 
direct debit to be taken which suggests to me he had agreed to take out PPI.
On balance, I think it is most likely that the bank made it clear the PPI was optional  and Mr V 
chose to buy it.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr V so it had to check  it was right for him. I 
know Mr V feels  strongly he didnt need it, but I think it was suitable based on what  I know  
about his circumstances at the time.  I say this because:
Mr V was eligible  for the policy.
He wasnt affected by any of the restrictions (such as those about existing medical 
conditions or certain types of employment  contract) which  could have made  it difficult 
for some people to make a successful claim.
Ref: DRN57353582I think the PPI could have been  useful for Mr V if he was sick or lost his job. He said 
he owned livestock but the PPI would have meant  he didnt need to sell them  at what  
would already have been a difficult time. He also said family were in a position to 
help, but thats  not suitable  alternative  protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples 
circumstances can change.
Ive seen no evidence  the policy was unaffordable and it was competitively  priced.
There might  have been areas in which Bank  of Scotland didnt give Mr V as much 
information as it should have done. However, for the same reasons that Ive decided  the 
policy was suitable,  my view is that better information would not have put him off taking out 
the PPI.
It follows dont think Mr V lost out because  of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5735358