K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that American Express Services Europe Limiteds advertising is unfair, 
unclear and misleading as it incorrectly implied he would be able to convert his reward points 
into air miles. 
background
Mr D holds an AESEL Express Rewards credit card. This scheme closed to new members in 
2011, but existing card holders have  been  able to continue using it. AESEL says that users 
collect points at a preferential rate that are exchangeable for retail vouchers. 
AESEL now offers a different membership  credit card, with different  terms and conditions,  
and with points  accumulated at a different rate. This card also provides for the exchange of 
accumulated points, including by converting  them to air miles.
Mr D complained to AESEL that he was unable to convert his Rewards points into air miles 
despite information to the contrary on the AESEL website.
AESEL sent Mr D the terms and conditions of his Rewards card,  which made clear how he 
could use his points.  
Our adjudicator didnt  consider that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. In summary, she 
said that the two membership schemes were different  and were  not interchangeable. 
Mr D was unhappy with the adjudicators view and he commented on a number of the points 
she had made. In particular he noted she had said nothing about  the screenshots he had 
submitted, which  clearly gave the impression that he would be able to exchange his points  
for air miles.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D holds an AESEL Express Rewards credit card, which provides a points based 
membership scheme. The card terms and conditions have remained unchanged since Mr D 
took out the card, although it is now closed to new members. The membership scheme  
essentially allows card holders to exchange accumulated points for retail vouchers 
redeemable at selected stores and supermarkets. It does not offer the option to exchange 
points for air miles.
But AESEL  offers a credit  card on which accumulated points can be exchanged for air miles. 
Mr D believes  that AESEL  should  allow him to exchange his points for air miles, or it should  
pay him an equivalent monetary value. He says that the AESEL website implies that air 
miles are an option open to him, but as they are not, AESEL is guilty of publishing  material 
that is unfair,  unclear and misleading.
Mr D has provided screenshots from AESELs  online membership catalogue  listing options 
for exchanging points.  But to pursue these card holders must log in, and it is at this stage 
that the available options are personalised to the user and their specific membership 
scheme. And this was the case for Mr D in that once  he had logged in the option to 
exchange his points for air miles was not available.
Ref: DRN50202402Mr D believes  that initial screen  to be misleading, but Im afraid I disagree with him. The 
terms and conditions of his credit card are clearly set out, and the points exchange options 
listed are consistent with those available online when he logs into his account. So whilst  I 
can understand his frustration at being  unable to change  his points for the air miles offered 
as part of a different AESEL membership scheme, I cannot conclude  that AESEL  has done 
anything wrong  here. 
Equally, and whilst I accept that Mr D might  have hoped that air miles would be an option 
available to him given the initial AESEL website membership screens,  I cannot  reasonably  
find that taken  together with his card terms and conditions and the scheme  specific 
information provided to him once he had logged on, that AESELs information was incorrect  
or mis-leading. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5020240