K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that insurance cover was added to his Provident  Personal Credit Limited 
accounts and he wants the hidden cost refunded  plus interest.   
background
Mr C says the rear inside page  of his Provident  payment  book shows PPI Life Insurance  was 
included with his loans. Its implied the cost of this was included and hidden  in what he paid 
and as he already  had other similar  insurances  through his employment  he didnt need any 
additional cover  provided  by Provident. He wants the hidden cost of this cover refunded plus 
interest.
Provident said in its final response that as a home collected credit  company it offered small 
unsecured loans repaid weekly. It does not, nor ever has, sold PPI or any other  type of 
insurance with its products. The details in Mr Cs payment book relate to Life Insurance 
which was a special  scheme it arranged at no extra charge to the customer. And in the event 
of Mr Cs death his dependents could contact Provident and if certain conditions were  met 
the amount outstanding on his accounts would be paid off. This wasnt  a PPI policy.
Provident has subsequently said that a life insurance policy was offered by a third party 
company. Provident  would have offered an interest  free loan to the customer for the cost of 
the annual policy and paid this to the third party company in one payment, allowing
the customer to pay the loan back in weekly instalments. Mr C didnt take this out and didnt 
have life cover. If he had thered have  been  evidence of this in his payment book as it 
wouldve been detailed  on a separate page.  But it isnt.
The third party company has confirmed that it has no record of Mr C holding  any life 
insurance policy with it.
Our investigator felt that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
PPI and life cover  arent the same. PPI provides protection for accident sickness and 
unemployment, not life insurance. Life insurance only covers  the customer in the 
event of death. 
Provident initially said life insurance was included at no extra  cost.  But its now 
clarified that Mr Cs payment book shows life insurance wasnt taken out. Its said life 
insurance was offered  by a third party  company and was paid for via an interest  free 
loan covered by Provident. If Mr C had taken it out thered have been a separate  
page in his payment book for the interest  free weekly  repayments. 
Theres no record or evidence in Mr Cs payment book of him taking out life 
insurance. 
Mr C says life insurance was included with his loans and its cost was added into his 
payments. But theres no evidence  of this and Provident says life cover wouldve 
shown completely separately in the payment book.  The third party company 
providing the life cover  also has no record  of Mr C having a policy with it. Theres  
nothing to show Mr C paid for life insurance.
Ref: DRN58195892We arent a regulator and cannot  require Provident to change its procedures  or fine 
or punish it. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Without any evidence  Mr C paid for life insurance she cant ask Provident  to make 
any refund to him. 
Mr C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says he didnt 
need life insurance as it wouldnt  benefit  him as any money paid out on his death wouldve 
gone to Provident. The payment book says life insurance was provided through a master 
policy held by Provident not an individual policy.  Hed other  insurances  and didnt need the 
life insurance provided by Provident. Its insurance  had a cost element which wasnt  optional  
for the customer.  This unnecessarily  bloated and inflated the interest  and costs  on his loan 
and his payments.  He also wants to know if the special arrangement life insurance 
referenced in his payment  book is the same  as the insurance Provident has referenced. He 
wants to know if the third party company had any connection with it. And where the cost of it 
was taken from if not the interest he paid to Provident. He still thinks he paid for a product he 
didnt need. He says he should  be put back in the position he wouldve been  in if hed had 
the choice of opting out of the insurance.  The life insurance wasnt free or additional at no 
extra cost as the payment book says.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Mr C has provided detailed  submissions  to support his complaint.  Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues. 
Mr C wants me to make further enquiries with the third party company providing the life 
insurance. But I do not propose doing  so as I have enough information already available  to 
me to allow me to make  my decision in this complaint.
Provident has rather bizarrely provided two very different and, to my mind, contradictory 
explanations about what life insurance  wouldve been available to Mr C.
Most recently its said a life insurance  policy was offered  by a third party company. If taken 
up by the customer  Provident would have  paid the cost of the annual  policy  to the third party  
company and given  the customer an interest  free loan for this amount which the customer  
would pay back to Provident in weekly instalments. And if taken out this would be shown on 
a separate page in the customers  payment  book.
In Mr Cs case theres nothing suggesting  this was ever offered  to Mr C or any reference in 
his payment book  to him taking out this cover  or the interest free loan. And the third party 
company has confirmed it has no record of him being its policyholder.
Mr C correctly says his payment book  mentions  life insurance protection  and sets out its 
terms and conditions. And Providents  earlier and original  explanation in its final response 
confirmed the details  outlined in Mr Cs payment  book relate  to life insurance which was a 
Ref: DRN58195893special scheme arranged at no extra charge to the customer. And it said in the event of his 
death his dependents  could contact Provident and if certain terms and conditions were met 
the amount outstanding on his accounts would be paid off.
I agree  with Mr C that this indicates  Provident  had likely taken out a master policy which  
provided life insurance  protection  to its customers and if Mr C died and his dependents 
made a claim it could make a pay out in the specified circumstances. 
Mr C says this insurance had a cost element  which wasnt  optional  for the customer  and its 
inclusion unnecessarily  bloated and inflated the interest and costs on his loan and payments 
he had to make. 
But Provident is entitled to decide  what benefits  it offers its customers, and to set its interest 
rates and loan costs.  These are examples  of it exercising its commercial judgement which  
isnt something wed normally  get involved in. 
And as the investigator has said this service isnt a regulator. We also cant  fine or punish  a 
business or require  it to change it practices and procedures. General issues  about how the 
banking industry  works are a matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Furthermore the existence  of this benefit  was clearly brought  to Mr Cs attention  from the 
very start as it was clearly set out in his payment book. If Mr C wasnt  happy  with this life 
insurance protection benefit, thought he didnt need it or considered the loan was too 
expensive he was free to contact Provident  or look around for a loan with another provider  
that better  suited his needs and requirements. But he didnt do so.
Provident also said in the payment book that this life insurance protection benefit was at no 
extra charge  to the customer and Ive seen nothing to show Mr C paid anything  extra  for it. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think on balance that Mr C ever took out a life 
insurance policy with the third party  company in his own name or, in either scenario  
described by Provident, made any payment for life insurance protection.  
Consequently I dont think Mr Cs shown he paid anything for such  cover and it follows  
theres nothing that can possibly  be refunded to him. And I dont  think  I can therefore  fairly or 
reasonably require Provident to refund or pay anything to Mr C as hed like.
Overall although  I recognise  Mr Cs strength of feeling I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5819589