K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms B say Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in September 1999. The policy was taken out 
following a phone call with Nationwide. It covered Mr B only for accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. The policy cost £82.30  per month  and wouldve covered their mortgage  
repayments of £1650 per month.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. Nationwide  disagreed  with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr and Ms Bs 
complaint. I will explain  why. 
The adjudicator said that Mr B likely  wouldnt have been able to make a successful  claim for 
unemployment given  his circumstances and the terms and conditions  of the policy. This was 
because he was the UK Managing Director and a Board Member of the company he worked 
for. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr B wouldnt  have  considered the policy worth the cost to him if he 
knew that most likely  he wouldnt have been  covered  for unemployment.  
The adjudicator said Nationwide hadnt  properly drawn the terms and conditions of the policy  
to his attention  so that he could make  an informed choice  about  whether he wanted  PPI or 
not. 
Mr B said on his mortgage application  that he was a UK Managing Director. Under the terms 
of the policy  Mr B was excluded from making a claim  for unemployment if he left the 
company as a result  of taking voluntary redundancy or resigned for any reason. Given his 
employment status, if he was leave his company, I think  it likely that the manner in which  he 
did so would preclude him making a successful  unemployment claim. 
Nationwide said that it adequately explained  the exclusions  to Mr B. A copy  of the call 
recording from the time of sale isnt available. Nationwide pointed out that a leaflet setting 
out the terms and conditions  was sent to Mr B with the PPI quote after his phone call with 
one of its staff. It says, this would  have alerted to him to the limitations of the policy. And as 
this wasnt an advised sale, it was up to Mr and Ms B to consider whether their particular 
situation meant that PPI was right for them. It says it wasnt  for Nationwide to make  enquiries 
to determine the suitability  of the policy for their needs.
Ref: DRN59779932I cant know what was said during the phone call. I think it unlikely  that the main features of 
the policy were brought to Mr Bs attention.  I say this because given his circumstances, I 
think he wouldve realised that it was unlikely that he would be able to make a successful  
claim for unemployment. I accept that Mr B was sent a leaflet subsequently, but I dont  know  
if he read the leaflet  and the information  about the exclusions was towards the back  of a 14 
page document.  
So, I think Nationwide should have alerted Mr B to the exclusions more clearly. And I dont 
think hed have taken  the PPI if the limitations  had been more clearly  drawn  to his attention. I 
dont think he wouldve considered the accident  and sickness cover worth  it to him. Mr B said 
he had savings, which couldve covered his mortgage repayments for around 10 years and 
he wouldve likely got discretionary sick pay from his company if he wasnt well enough  to 
work. So, I think hes lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong.
I have taken into account everything that Nationwide has said, but this doesnt change  my 
view.
fair compensation
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mr and Ms B in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and 
Nationwide Building  Society should:
Pay  Mr and Ms B the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  Building 
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
If Nationwide has already repaid any commission amount to Mr and Ms B that relates to 
this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted by Nationwide from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mr and Ms B a certificate  showing how much 
tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Ms Bs complaint. 
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay Mr and Ms B compensation in line with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5977993