K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained that TWG Services Limited mis-sold payment protection  insurance
(PPI) to him.
background
In 2005 Mr T bought  a monthly premium  PPI policy from TWG, in connection with a finance 
agreement for a car.
Mr T has complained about how the PPI was sold to him. And our adjudicator  felt the
complaint should  be upheld.  In her view TWG  hadnt shown that itd made it clear to Mr B
that the PPI was optional.
TWG didnt agree, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Based on the information Ive got, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres not that much information available from the time Mr T took his policy,  but both Mr T 
and TWG agree that the policy was taken out by telephone after Mr T took the finance. TWG  
has explained that as the PPI was taken out after the finance was agreed  Mr T would have 
known he had a choice about taking  the policy. Mr T has told us that the PPI was taken out 
between the time he took the finance  and when he received the car.
TWG has also said that Mr Ts mother called in to decline further  insurance  that she had 
received details of through the post,  and that this showed  Mr T would have known the policy 
was optional. But I dont  think  this does. The products Mr Ts mother declined were not PPI 
and were not linked  to the decision to take the PPI policy.  
It is clear from Mr Ts credit agreement that he did not want  PPI at the time he agreed to the 
finance and TWG hasnt  provided any further evidence  that Mr T changed his mind about 
taking the policy during  the call it had with him, or that he agreed to take the policy after 
being given the choice  to decline it. There is also nothing  to explain why he wouldve 
decided to have  PPI at this stage, having previously saying he didnt want  it.
On balance, I dont  think Ive been shown  clearly enough that Mr T chose to take out the 
PPI, having been given  a fair choice  about  whether to have it. So, I think its fair to uphold  
this complaint.
putting things right
TWG should put Mr T in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI. The policy
should be cancelled,  if that hasnt been done  already,  and TWG should:
Ref: DRN58254392Pay Mr T the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment, from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, TWG can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires TWG  to take off tax from this interest. TWG must give Mr 
T a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons  given,  I require TWG Services  Limited  to put things  right for Mr T as
explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5825439