K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about various aspects of the service provided by Interactive Investor 
Services Limited, specifically the administration of his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP), the transfer  of his ISA, and problems accessing his account online.  
background
Mr R has held accounts with Interactive Investor  Services Limited (IISL) since  June 2017 
when it took over another business  Ill call T - a SIPP,  a trading account and a stocks  and 
shares ISA. The accounts were  originally opened with a predecessor of T. Although some of 
the issues predate the migration from T to IISL, for ease of reading  Ill mainly refer to IISL in 
this decision.
Mr R says hes experienced a number of problems with IISL over the years. He says since 
2016 hes had difficulties accessing his accounts  online or by phone and is effectively locked 
out. And when he calls IISL doesnt recognise him as a customer.  
Mr R moved in 2013, and although his address was changed in IISLs  records at the time, in 
March 2018 he says his SIPP statement was received at his previous address and was 
opened by a third party.  It was incorrectly  addressed with one line of his previous address  
appearing within the address field. Mr R is missing other statements and worries  theyve also 
gone to the wrong address.
Mr Rs unhappy at the time IISL took to transfer his ISA to provider N in April 2018, as the 
funds were sent by cheque rather than electronically. He says hes been trying to transfer  his 
SIPP from IISL to provider  A since May 2018. And in August 2018  Mr R experienced 
problems when trying  to complete a W8-BEN form (relating to US tax) online. 
Mr R has made multiple complaints to IISL (and provider A) and has requested  significant 
compensation to cover  all his complaint  points  as well as the refund of account fees and 
charges. IISL has issued several  final response  letters (FRLs) giving referral rights to this 
service within  six months. Mr R disagreed  with all of IISLs responses so continued to pursue 
his complaints. 
Mr R complained to this service in January  2019. One of our investigators  looked into his 
concerns and request for compensation of £1,225 (£750 for the data breach, £250 for the 
service interruption and missing statements, £150  for the delayed  ISA transfer and £75 for 
the online W8-Ben form). She explained  she couldnt consider some  points as more than six 
months had passed  since  IISL had issued  its FRL(s). But she could  look into the incorrectly 
addressed statement and the transfer of his ISA. She thought  the ISA transfer  had been 
completed in a reasonable timescale,  and she didnt have enough to say thered been  a data 
breach as Mr Rs address  was correct in IISLs records.  She thought overall  the £75 
compensation offered by IISL, was in line with what shed recommend, so didnt ask it to pay 
more.
Mr R didnt agree hed complained too late and said his complaints about the blocking of his 
account or the SIPP transfer hadnt  been addressed. He provided further evidence to 
support his complaint points and requested increased compensation. 
Another investigator carried out a thorough review of Mr Rs concerns which he summarised 
as follows:
Ref: DRN526137021)Service interruption and being locked out of his account from October  2016  to date. 
Out of time as FRLs issued in November and December 2016  (offering £75);
2)Data security  issues namely his annual SIPP statement  being  incorrectly  addressed. 
In time as FRL issued in July 2018 (reiterating offer of £75).
3)Problems submitting  a form W8-EN online.  Out of time as FRL issued in February 
2018.
4)ISA transfer delay  no FRL issued
5)Missing SIPP statements (linked  to 1 & 2)  no specific FRL issued
6)Failure to transfer his SIPP to another provider  likely to be out of time as it appears  
an FRL was issued in October 2017.
He concurred  with the first investigator that several of Mr Rs complaint points had been 
brought to this service too late. And although  he hadnt seen the FRL in relation  to point 6, 
the timing suggested  it was also brought too late. 
In relation to the complaint points which were brought in time, he agreed with the previous 
investigators findings about the ISA transfer.  The FRLs IISL issued in 2016 didnt address 
Mr Rs specific  complaint  about being locked  out of his account and he didnt think IISL had 
done enough to help him. To resolve  this he recommended IISL should  completely reset  
Mr Rs log-on credentials to ensure he has trouble free access to his online account,  and he 
thought the compensation  offered of £75 should be increased to £150 for this. And IISL 
should pay compensation of £150  in relation to the worry caused to Mr R about his 
statements being wrongly addressed. So a total of £300 for those two issues.  He hadnt  
seen evidence, such as signed instructions from the new provider (recipient)  to IISL, to show 
Mr R had instigated the transfer of his SIPP to A. In his experience it wouldnt be possible to 
give transfer instructions  by telephone  or email to IISL. 
IISL didnt respond  to the investigators view but Mr R responded in detail about its massive 
shortcomings. He insisted he had pursued the SIPP  transfer process by telephone calls and 
emails, but IISL and A each referred  him to the other. And he denied  his complaints had 
been brought too late, as the longstanding  problems hed experienced are surely 
exceptional  circumstances. As agreement couldnt be reached its come to me to make a 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Before Im able to consider the merits of 
any complaint I must first ensure its one we have the power  to consider. These  rules  are set 
by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, and are known as the DISP  rules. 
Among other  things they govern the time limits we must apply.  DISP  2.8.2 limits the time a 
consumer has to bring a complaint to this service to six months from the date of the relevant 
FRL. Mr R believes the time limit doesnt apply if the issue  remains unresolved  but thats not 
right. Unless  hed been given extended referral rights  the six-month time limit still stands. 
The only exceptions are if the business agrees to us considering  the complaint, which IISL 
doesnt in this case. Or the failure to bring a complaint within  that time is due to exceptional 
circumstances. And although  the regulator  doesnt  expressly define  exceptional  
circumstances, it makes  clear the consumer  must  have been  unable or prevented from 
bringing the complaint sooner than they did, for example by being incapacitated. This is a 
Ref: DRN52613703very high bar, and as Mr R continued  to correspond with IISL I think  he was also able to 
bring his complaint to this service  within  the time limit. 
Mr R brought his various complaint points (as one complaint) to this service on 10 January 
2019. So while I appreciate Mr R doesnt agree, any complaint points covered by FRLs 
issued before 10 July 2018 have been  brought  to this service  too late for us to consider. 
As the history is quite  complicated Ill set out which elements we can and cant consider as 
simply as I can, retaining the investigators  numbering. For simplicity I havent included every  
interaction and issue  Mr R has had with IISL. But I have carefully considered  all the 
information both parties  have  provided before reaching my decision. 
1)Service interruption and being locked out of his SIPP account from October 2016 to date
Its clear much of Mr Rs frustration stems from this issue.  Two FRLs were issued in 2016 -
the first on 23 November 2016  related  to Mr R being unable to reset  his password on a 
mobile device. This complaint was rejected as the account was disabled  for security reasons 
following three unsuccessful log-in attempts. The second FRL was issued on 14 December 
2016 following  further submissions from Mr R and related to his contact preferences  and 
also the email linked to the account. IISL upheld this complaint and offered Mr R £75. Both 
letters included the six-month referral rights, so Mr R had until 14 June 2017 at the latest to 
bring those  complaint points to this service.  
Mr R says he still cannot access  his account and says IISL doesnt recognise him as a 
customer when he calls.  And neither of these FRLs addressed the particular problem of 
being locked out of his account and IISL so far failing to reinstate his access.  So I think we 
can look at this specific point. IISL has explained a user name  and password are required to 
log in to its platform. IISL has explained three of Mr Rs seven-digit account numbers (ending 
834, 344 or 413) are valid usernames, but his SIPP account number (639)  is not. IISL has 
provided Mr Rs log-in history for the past five years which showed 190 attempts of which 48 
(25%) were  unsuccessful,  all with username 834. I can see he was able to log in 
successfully several times in January  and June 2016, and almost  every  month through  2017. 
The last successful attempt was in December 2018  by phone, and theres  a previous 
successful attempt in June 2018  using  344 (this account was closed in December 2018 at 
Mr Rs request but is still a valid username). IISL says thereve been  no further log in 
attempts between the December 2018 call and 26 March 2020 when Mr R attempted  to log 
in using an invalid username.
Due to the prevalence of fraud  its common practice  for financial firms  to restrict access to an 
account after a certain number  of failed attempts for security reasons.  Our investigator 
couldnt personally reinstate Mr Rs account  access. But he suggested IISL completely reset  
Mr Rs account access with a new username and password. I now understand only 
passwords not username(s) can be changed.  But as long as Mr R uses  one of his valid 
usernames, it should be possible to reset his password  to enable him to access  his account, 
as long as he can fulfil IISLs security procedures. 
Mr R believes  hes missed out on investment opportunities as hes been unable to trade  
although Ive seen no evidence to support this. I appreciate being  unable to access  the 
account online has been frustrating, but if he had an urgent need to trade Id expect him to 
call IISL for help, provided he could pass their telephone security. And it looks like he hasnt 
tried this since December  2018.  I cant criticise a business if a consumer fails its security as 
it has a duty to safeguard customers accounts.  But I understand Mr Rs confusion  that a 
Ref: DRN52613704closed account  number is still a valid username. And being told he isnt recognised  as a 
customer caused significant inconvenience.  So I dont think IISL has done  enough  to help Mr 
R, and agree with the investigators  offer of £150  compensation  for this. 
2)Data security  issues namely his annual SIPP statement  being  incorrectly  addressed 
In April 2018 Mr R complained hed received his 2017 annual SIPP statement opened  by 
someone else as it had been  sent to his old address. He mentioned  a similar  incident  in 
2016 and that hed raised several complaints  about  missing statements. Hed also 
complained that IISL held an incorrect email  address for his account. And in September  
2013 the address change confirmation letter had been sent to his old rather  than new 
address. But although  SIPP statements from December 2014 and 2017 had both been 
incorrectly addressed  in that one line of his previous address  was inserted between the 
correct first line of the address and correct  city and postcode, it wasnt  clear any other 
missing statements had been delivered to his previous address or opened by a third party.  
IISL issued an FRL about the incorrect address issue (and the SIPP  transfer) on 12 July 
2018 so this complaint was brought to us in time. IISL wasnt sure if Mr Rs complaint was 
about communications being sent to an incorrect email or postal address,  so the FRL covers 
both. It said the email address issue had been addressed in its FRL dated  23 November 
2016, re-sent in September  2017 as Mr R said he hadnt received it, and £75 compensation 
had been offered. Mr R hadnt accepted as he wanted £100. IISL said Mr Rs postal address 
had been changed when  he moved in 2013  and was correct on its records and on all file 
copies of documents sent by post.  It said it would honour the offer of £75 for a further three 
weeks. Mr R didnt say hed accepted, but later complained the redress  hadnt been paid. 
Its not clear exactly how the conflated address happened. At the takeover, Mr Rs accounts 
with T werent transferred to an IISL platform, instead IISL continued to use Ts platform and 
just rebranded  it as IISL. There was an error with Mr Rs address being registered on Ts 
systems following its takeover of another business  some years previously which  might  have 
affected 14 quarterly  statements  from May 2010 to June 2013  (annual statements were 
issued from April 2014), but theres  nothing to show any went missing. I think  the key 
elements of an address to enable it to be delivered to its destination are the first line and the 
postcode which were both correct.  And as the two addresses are in different areas with 
completely different post codes it seems  unlikely items would be regularly mis-delivered.  But 
even if they were, theyd  have clearly been  addressed to Mr R, so Id expect the occupant of 
his previous home to have returned  them to sender rather than opened the envelope.  So 
other than that one incident in March  2018,  theres no evidence of further disclosure of 
Mr Rs personal  data.  But there was an error in the way the statements were  addressed  
which caused Mr R understandable anxiety.  So I agree with the recommendation of £150  to 
reflect this. 
3)Problems submitting  a form W8-EN online 
Mr R complained in December 2017 about problems he experienced submitting  this form 
online. IISL issued  its FRL on 9 February  2018  admitting thered been some technical  issues  
which were fixed in November 2017. It didnt uphold  his complaint but offered a free of 
charge transfer  of his SIPP to another provider until September 2018, an offer it made to all 
customers whod previously been  with T. The six-month referral rights for this issue expired 
on 9 August 2018. So this complaint has been brought  too late. 
4)ISA transfer delay
Ref: DRN52613705Mr R complained to IISL about this issue (among  others) in May 2018  but as IISL hasnt 
issued an FRL we can look into it. 
Mr R had a stocks and shares ISA which was originally opened with T in February 2009. He 
asked IISL about  transferring his ISA in January 2017. But it wasnt  until 24 April 2018  that 
IISL received his signed instructions from the new provider  N (dated 18 April 2018). His 
holdings were liquidated, and the funds were sent by cheque  on 3 May 2018. The transfer 
confirmation dated 1 May 2018  says the funds will be sent as a faster payment 
(electronically) but if your broker doesnt  accept faster payments well issue a cheque  
instead.  Mr R believes IISL should  reimburse  his lost interest as the funds would have  been  
received more quickly if sent electronically. But Ive seen a letter in which N told IISL it was 
currently  unable to receive electronic payments for these transfers so requested the funds 
by cheque. And IISL sent the cheque on the seventh  business day which I think is a 
reasonable timescale. I cant hold IISL responsible for not sending  the funds electronically if 
it had been told not to. If Mr R is unhappy N couldnt  accept the funds electronically he can 
complain to them. 
5)Missing SIPP statements (linked  to 1 & 2)
Theres no separate FRL for this issue which  has been covered in point 2 above and is also 
linked to the lack of online access in point 1 whereby Mr R could check  his balance  or see 
his statements. So I dont  think  its necessary to comment further on this. 
6)Failure to transfer his SIPP to another provider
Mr R originally complained to this service  hes been trying to transfer  his SIPP  to provider A 
since May 2018. The FRL issued in October  2017 related to a previous complaint that IISL 
didnt receive Mr Rs preference form which would have prevented the automatic transfer of 
his SIPP  to A as part of a migration project.  IISL says when Mr R received confirmation his 
SIPP would be transferred to A he objected, which is why his SIPP remains  with IISL and is 
administered by another firm. 
Mr A now says although he was unhappy his preference form hadnt been received,  he was 
told in October 2017 the transfer  couldnt  be stopped so thought it had gone ahead. But that 
doesnt tally with what he was told in the FRL, which  says IISL is happy to have retained his 
custom and As your wish to stay with us has been met.. I cant look into what happened 
in 2017 as Mr Rs referral rights to this service for that complaint expired in April 2018. 
But I can look into the complaint that hes been  trying to transfer his SIPP since May 2018  as 
IISL hasnt  issued an FRL on that point.  Mr R says he wanted to transfer to A as he was told 
he couldnt keep  his SIPP and ISA together. Im not persuaded this was his main motivation 
as Ive seen evidence Mr R enquired  about  transferring the ISA in January 2017. But 
although Mr R mentions numerous emails  and phone calls hes had with IISL Ive seen no 
formal instructions to transfer his SIPP since the aborted transfer in October 2017, when a 
SIPP account was opened for him with A. And Ive seen no evidence  that IISL has objected 
to or prevented Mr R transferring his SIPP.  IISL has said Mr R is able to transfer his SIPP to 
A, or any provider of his choice, without penalty,  and clearly  it didnt prevent Mr R 
transferring his ISA once  it received  valid instructions  from the new provider. So I cant say 
IISL has done anything  wrong here. 
summary
Ref: DRN52613706Its clear Mr R is very unhappy with the service provided by IISL since  it took over T. But for 
the reasons Ive explained above, this service cannot look into some  of the issues  he raises. 
And for some points I dont think IISL is at fault. But there are two issues  where  IISL has 
done something wrong, for which it should pay him £300. Id also expect it to provide Mr R 
with assistance  in resetting his online access provided he can complete its security  
procedures. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. Interactive Investor  Services Limited should pay Mr R £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5261370