K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  in 2001.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr J disagreed with these findings. He has reiterated that he was told by Lloyds that taking 
out PPI was a condition  of being granted the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
Mr J has stated that it was implied to him that he needed to take out PPI in order  for the 
mortgage to be granted.  Clearly I cannot know for certain what  discussions took place at this 
time. I am also mindful that, with the sale taking place a number of years  ago, it might be 
difficult to recall the full discussions  that took place  a number of years  ago.
On the mortgage  application that was signed  by Mr J, there  was a section relating to PPI. 
Two boxes  were available  for ticking. One confirmed  that the applicant wished to apply for 
PPI, and the other stated that the applicant did not want PPI. On the form signed by Mr J, 
the box selecting PPI was ticked. Mr J also signed  a separate  PPI application  form.
I have carefully considered Mr Js description of the PPI sale. Based on the weight of 
evidence available, and in particular the details shown  on the mortgage application form, my 
view is that it is more  likely than not that Mr J was given  the option  whether or not to take out 
PPI. As Mr J signed a PPI application form, I consider that he agreed to take the policy out.
Lloyds advised  Mr J to take out PPI. It therefore had to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice it gave was suitable. It also had to give clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the PPI so that Mr J could make a properly informed choice.
Having looked  at his circumstances when  the policy was sold,  my view is that the policy was 
suitable for the following  reasons:
Mr J has confirmed his entitlement to pay in the event of sickness or redundancy. I note 
he has also said that his father  could have  helped him meet his mortgage repayments  if 
he wasnt working. However it seems to me that family assistance  cannot be guaranteed  
for an unknown date in the future.
The PPI policy would  have paid out an amount to help cover the mortgage repayments if 
Mr J had been unable  to work due to disability or unemployment, and this would have 
been in addition to any other benefits he received.  On balance, bearing in mind the 
importance of meeting  mortgage repayments, my view is that PPI did provide a useful 
benefit to Mr J if he was unable to work because of disability or unemployment.
Ref: DRN53667812Mr J was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been  affected by any of the main 
things not covered  by the policy that might make  it unsuitable for him.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable 
when the policy  was sold.
There might  have been other areas  in which Lloyds  didnt give Mr J as much information as 
it should have  done. But for the same  reasons  that Ive decided  the policy  was suitable,  my 
view is that better information would not have put him off taking out the PPI. Although I 
appreciate that Mr J will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion is that the policy  
was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5366781