K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with a missing  payment for a 
large amount of money.
background
Mr G made  a payment  of just over £23,167  which went missing. He says he was given  
misleading information by Nationwide about  the whereabouts  of the money and was also lied 
to by it. Mr G says his concerns were disregarded  and dismissed by Nationwide.  He says the 
money was returned  to Nationwide but it didnt tell him until some time later. Mr G says he 
was extremely concerned about what had happened  and Nationwides actions have caused 
a significant level of stress and anxiety. He believes he should  be compensated in line with 
court awards for psychological  damage  in the region of at least  £5,000.
Nationwide accepts its made a number of mistakes here and has apologised. It says its staff 
couldve done more  to identify the issues and shouldve  resolved the issue of the missing 
money far sooner than it did. Its paid Mr G compensation of £350 and ensured  there  was no 
loss of interest.
Mr G brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Nationwide had dealt fairly with 
the complaint.  He thought  its actions  in ensuring  there was no loss of interest  and the award 
of compensation  was fair and reasonable. The adjudicator accepted Nationwide  had made 
mistakes and shouldve  done more to help Mr G.
Mr G doesnt accept  that view and says in summary  this was an exceptional case  of 
disregard and that Nationwide could on six occasions have told him the money had been 
returned. He would  like Nationwide reported  to the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for similar reasons. I realise Mr G will disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about what happened.
There is no question here that Nationwide made a number of mistakes in how it dealt with Mr 
Gs request to find his money. There is no need  for me to repeat them in great detail as they 
are well known to the parties. But I accept Mr G transferred a large  amount of money  and I 
fully understand  his concern when  he was told it hadnt been  received. I also accept that 
there were a number  of occasions, when with proper investigation, Nationwide  couldve told 
Mr G far earlier than it did, that it had received the money back.
I accept that Mr G was caused a significant  amount of stress and inconvenience as a result 
of what took place. But Im satisfied  Nationwide has apologised for its mistakes and paid 
what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. Im also satisfied its acted 
fairly by making sure there  wasnt any lost interest  for the month the money  wasnt in the 
account.
I appreciate that Mr G believes we should  make an award comparable  to that of a court 
when dealing with cases of psychological  damage, and has provided us with suggested 
damages amounts.  But we are not a court and as Mr G knows,  a court  would only make 
such an award with appropriate expert evidence.
Ref: DRN55468982 I understand why Mr G would like Nationwide reported to the FCA but again thats not 
something we can fairly interfere in or order, as we are not the regulator of banks and 
building societies.
Overall I accept Nationwide  has made  mistakes  here but has paid an appropriate  amount of 
compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  has paid a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation  and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5546898