K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc unfairly  increased  the interest rate on 
their mortgage. Theyre also unhappy  about  the overall interest charged. 
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage in 2002.  It was taken out on part interest  only and part 
repayment method  over a term of 12 years. The mortgage was on a fixed  rate of 4.5% which  
was due to end on 31 January 2004. After  this, a variable rate of the Bank of England  Base 
Rate plus 0.5% applied  until 31 January  2005.  The mortgage then moved to a tracker 
product, as part of the original agreement. This rate was to be the Bank of England plus a 
differential (this is the amount  of interest  added  to the Bank  of England  Base Rate to 
determine the total interest rate) of 1.75%. 
In February 2013,  Bank of Ireland wrote to Mr and Mrs T to tell them  about  changes they 
were making to the differential rate later that year. The letter stated the following changes  
would be applied:
in May 2013, the differential rate would  increase  to 2.49% (total  interest rate 2.99%)
in October 2013, the differential  rate would  increase to 3.99% (total interest rate 
4.49%)
The letter also contained  a leaflet  - which explained the reasons for the increase, and 
information about what Mr and Mrs T could do if they wanted to apply for a different rate. 
Bank of Ireland  also said they would waive any Early Repayment Charges  (ERCs)  
applicable to Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  if they chose to redeem this mortgage early.
Mr and Mrs T complained about the increases as they felt these were unfair. They also felt 
they had been overcharged  interest  on their mortgage. Because  of this, they wanted  Bank  of 
Ireland to agree to accept  £1,000 to clear  the outstanding balance  which  is currently  
around £3,000.
Bank of Ireland  said theyd increased the differential  rate in line with the terms of the 
mortgage contract,  and they wrote  to Mr and Mrs T before the increases explaining the 
reasons for them doing so. They also provided information about what Mr and Mrs T could 
do if they felt the increases would affect their ability to make  the new monthly payments. 
Bank of Ireland  also said that they didnt overcharge any interest on Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with this so brought their complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and explained  that, in his view, Bank of Ireland  hadnt acted 
unfairly when increasing the differential of Mr and Mrs Ts interest rate. He also didnt think 
that Bank  of Ireland  had overcharged interest on their mortgage. 
As Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy, they asked for the complaint  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman  so it has come to me to decide.
Ref: DRN58781972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs T, I wont be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Id firstly  like to reassure Mr and Mrs T that I have taken into account legislation, regulation 
and good industry  practice in reaching my decision.  
interest rate changes  (the differential rate)
Ive firstly  looked at the mortgage offer under interest rate special condition. I think  this 
section makes it clear that Bank of Ireland were entitled to change  the differential rate on the 
mortgage. The condition  said:
From the 1st February 2005 the interest  rate we charge will track  base  rate for the remainder 
of the mortgage  period at a fixed differential of 1.75%  above  base rate unless we change  the
differential under condition 6(m) of our Residential Mortgage Conditions.
So I think because of this, Bank  of Ireland  informed  Mr and Mrs T that they may change the 
differential at some  point  in the future.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  that they agreed to when 
they took it out. These explained  that Bank of Ireland can change the differential above  or 
below Bank  of England base rate for the reasons that are outlined. Two of the reasons 
stated in the terms and conditions  are:
because we need to increase the amount we need to receive from borrowers in order to 
maintain a prudent level of profitability or reserves. And
because it is costing us more to administer borrowers accounts.
In the leaflet Bank of Ireland sent Mr and Mrs T in 2013, it explains the reason the differential 
rate has increased  is  
Currently, banks are required to hold more  capital reserves, as part of measures to protect 
the banking system from the type of scenarios seen during the banking crisis. In addition, the 
cost of funding  mortgages has increased significantly for Bank of Ireland  and the market as a 
whole in recent years.
Bank of Ireland  have provided  the Financial Ombudsman Service with information about  the 
reasons why they needed to raise  the interest rate at this time.  Theyve  provided  information  
showing their funding  costs had increased.  Weve  carefully considered the information 
theyve provided  and it shows that there  was a business need to increase their funds at the 
time, and that the bank didnt go further  than they needed to.
So Im satisfied that Bank of Ireland have increased the differential rate in line with the terms 
of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage, and were entitled to do so. Theyve done so for a reason 
specified in Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage agreement. But what I need to consider is whether this 
was fair, taking into account the circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN58781973When Bank of Ireland  told Mr and Mrs T about  the changes  they were  making  to the interest 
differential, they also gave information about what they could do if they wanted to consider 
other options. They gave them the option to choose  a new Bank of Ireland product, contact a 
broker or Independent Financial Adviser  to discuss their options, or use their mortgage  
specialist. So Im satisfied  the bank made Mr and Mrs T aware that they didnt  have to stay 
on the tracker rate, and they had other  options  available if they didnt want to pay the new 
rate.
Bank of Irelands  letter sent in 2013 said they would  waive any ERCs that would normally  
have been applicable. So the only charge payable on redemption would be the closure fee. 
This fee would have  been payable at any time the lending  had been  fully redeemed,  even  if 
the mortgage ran to term  and so I dont  consider  it a charge or penalty for redeeming  the 
mortgage early. Because of this, overall  Im satisfied  there were no contractual barriers  
preventing Mr and Mrs T from redeeming their mortgage early if they wanted to look for 
another interest rate elsewhere.
interest charged on the mortgage
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage came to a natural end on 31 March  2014 where the outstanding  
balance became due. Mr and Mrs T redeemed  the repayment part of the mortgage  but the 
interest only element  is still outstanding. Bank of Ireland said the current  amount due is just 
over £3,000.
Bank of Ireland  have said that they have backdated  the payments to the date they were  
received by them and having look at the statements provided, I havent seen anything  which  
makes me think that the balance is incorrect  or that additional interest  has been applied 
when it shouldnt have  been.
Mr and Mrs T want Bank of Ireland to agree to accept £1,000 to clear  their outstanding 
balance on the mortgage. But because Im satisfied that Bank of Ireland havent  made  an 
error in how theyve calculated the interest, I cant say that they should accept this.
I would encourage  Mr and Mrs T and Bank  of Ireland to keep an open dialogue so that they 
can agree  a suitable way forward for the outstanding balance  to be paid.
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Bank of Ireland have 
acted fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5878197