K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are represented by a claims management company in pursuing  their 
complaint. It says they were mis-sold a whole of life policy by Phoenix Life Limited. 
background
In 1990, Mr and Mrs P took out a whole  of life policy with Abbey Life Assurance Company 
Limited. Phoenix now takes responsibility  for the sale of the policy.  It included  both life and 
critical illness benefit. The policy had an initial  sum assured of £42,627. 
In June 1995, Mr and Mrs P exercised the guaranteed insurability option (GIO) under the 
policy in order to increase the sum assured by a further £9,458 for an additional  monthly 
premium. 
Mr and Mrs P surrendered the policy in 2005.
In April 2019, the CMC made a complaint to Phoenix. It said there  was no paperwork 
available to justify  the sale of the policy. It contended that Mr and Mrs P were  not financially 
literate. It also said affordability in later years was an issue for them,  and this would have 
been known to the adviser at the time. 
Phoenix rejected  the complaint. It said paperwork was available from the time of the sale, 
and it supplied a copy to the CMC.  Phoenix  said there had been  a documented need for life 
and critical illness cover, and the policy they were  recommended  was suitable to address 
that need.  
The CMC brought  the complaint to this service.  An investigator  said he didnt  think  the 
complaint should  succeed. He said he believed Mr and Mrs P were able to make  an 
informed choice about their policy, and in his view, it was affordable for them at the time of 
the sale.  
The CMC said Mr and Mrs P disagreed.  It said it maintained the argument that Mr and Mrs P 
were not financially literate; it said they were self-employed running their own type of retail 
business and theyd never taken  out any other investment or protection policies other than 
those advised  by Abbey Life (now Phoenix).  It also made some additional complaint points 
that were not raised before, noting:
the adviser didnt  tell Mr and Mrs P about  the reviewable nature of their policy;
this service issued a decision previously (by another ombudsman) which  said that, 
even with historic policies, the ombudsman was not persuaded that standalone  
critical illness couldnt be obtained elsewhere;
therefore the adviser ought to have  made  Mr and Mrs P aware that they could obtain  
cover elsewhere if they wished to do so. 
The CMC supplied its further case file of evidence  relating to Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances 
and advice theyd  received at other  times. It asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. 
Phoenix didnt  have any further  comments to add.  
Ref: DRN55965212my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. 
The CMC says that while Mr and Mrs P required critical  illness cover,  they didnt want  or 
need life cover that the whole of life policy provided. Nor were they advised that there were 
other options open to them. It feels Mr and Mrs P could have better  met their needs by 
securing standalone critical illness  cover  elsewhere.  And they didnt understand this because 
they had no financial  literacy. 
I appreciate why the CMC has made its submission regarding life cover. Mr and Mrs P 
wanted protection in the event of serious illness. They had an endowment mortgage, and the 
proposal for the whole  of life policy was a sum assured matching the mortgage lending.  The 
CMC also now submits  that they previously had life assurance policies. 
But I dont find the recommendation  to be unsuitable, merely because  critical illness  cover  
could only be provided alongside additional life cover within the whole of life policy.  Mr and 
Mrs P were  running their own business.  To have life assurance at a small proportion of their 
premium as additional protection wasnt an unreasonable solution  where  the policy met their 
primary objective for insurance  against serious  illness. And at that time, Abbey Life couldnt 
have offered standalone critical illness cover, as it didnt begin  doing so for until several 
years later. 
I also feel it is relevant that Mr and Mrs P later exercised the GIO option  to increase the life 
and critical illness cover provided. I doubt they would have done this if they were unhappy 
with the nature of the cover provided by the policy. 
As regards  the advice  in 1990,  I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs P would have done 
anything differently, or that there is sufficient evidence to suggest theyd have secured 
standalone critical  illness cover elsewhere. Abbey  Life only provided  cover within  whole of 
life or endowment policies at that time.  I dont  believe, on balance, that Mr and Mrs P would 
have decided against the recommendation  merely because they already had some life 
assurance provision.  Mr and Mrs P signed a declaration to confirm  they understood and 
agreed with the advice.  
This is supported by the adviser  recording Mr and Mrs P had previously sought cover 
elsewhere and refused  it based on cost. I believe that they were sufficiently aware that they 
did not have to accept the advisers proposal. The recommended policy had a premium that 
was affordable based on both Mr and Mrs Ps documented income and expenditure.  
I note the CMC has copied an extract  from a previous decision by a differing  ombudsman 
which says that the ombudsman  in that case expected the adviser  to tell a consumer  if it 
could not provide exactly what the consumer was looking for. I do not agree I should  merely 
apply that here, because  no two complaints are factually identical. My role is to look at the 
complaint before me, and the evidence. And I have seen no objective  evidence that Mr and 
Mrs P had specific needs that were not addressed by this recommendation (notwithstanding 
the point regarding life cover), when  they were likely aware they could seek  advice 
elsewhere. 
Ref: DRN55965213Finally, I do not accept there is evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs P were  unaware of the 
cover they had sought and taken out following  advice. The evidence  shows  them firstly 
exercising the GIO option after five years,  and Mr P writing to Abbey Life regarding  a 
potential critical illness claim. I believe,  on balance, this shows they understood what  their 
cover provided, and they wished to proceed  with it.
my final decision
I do not find the advice provided  by Abbey Life (now Phoenix Life Limited)  to have  been  
unreasonable in the circumstances. Nor do I think that Mr and Mrs Ps whole of life policy 
was mis-sold to them in 1990. I therefore  do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P ] to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2020.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5596521