K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Covea Insurance plc wrongly  declined a claim for damage to his car 
and provided poor customer  service  in their handling of his claim.
Background
Mr W had car insurance with Covea. He made  a claim  in June  2018  relating to damage he 
says was sustained  when he accidentally left the sun roof tilted during a heavy downpour.
Covea declined the claim. They  said the damage   to the electronics in Mr Ws car  couldnt 
have been caused by the incident when  the sun roof was left tilted.
Mr W wasnt happy with this and complained  to Covea.  They  admitted some service  failures 
 for example, not calling Mr W back when theyd promised to do so  and they offered Mr W 
£100 in compensation. But they maintained that the claim had been correctly declined.
So, Mr W complained to us. Our investigator  looked into and didnt think  Covea had done  
anything wrong.
Mr W disagreed  and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy sets out what  hes covered for in Section 2. It says:
This section provides you with cover  for loss or damage to the car and its 
accessories caused  by accidental or malicious damage, or vandalism.
It also says Covea will not pay for:
any losses  that are not directly associated with the incident  that caused  you to 
claim.
Loss or damage caused by wear and tear or depreciation.
Loss or damage caused by any mechanical,  electrical, electronic computer or 
computer software failures,  breakdowns, faults  or breakages.
And although its not explicit,  the definition of what  is covered (above) makes it clear that the 
policy is not intended to cover  design faults present  in the car from the point of manufacture. 
As you might expect, those are matters for the manufacturer to deal with rather than the 
insurer.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mr Ws car boot filled with water  and this caused issues 
with the electronics in the car. Mr W has now got rid of the car due to these problems. He 
wants Covea to pay for the attempted repairs and for replacement  of the car.
Ref: DRN56862492The question for me is how the water got into the boot. And whether  that was caused by an 
event thats insured  i.e. accidental or malicious damage,  or vandalism.
Mr W says the water  got into the boot when he left the sun roof tilted. On the face of it, thats 
unlikely. The sun roof is over the cabin of the car. If water came in through  the roof, it would 
be more likely to have  damaged the cabin than the boot.
Its a bit more complicated than that though. Unsurprisingly, the roof is designed so that 
water doesnt flow into the cabin. It has a rim under and around the opening  which causes 
any water  coming off the roof to flow through holes in the rim and into drainage pipes. These 
carry the water out of the car. The pipes go from the rear of the sun roof rim, through  the 
chassis of the car and via spaces at the side of the boot to exit the car underneath.
Mr W says there are reports on the internet that the drainage tubes  in his make  and model of 
car tend to get blocked. And he thought  this was the reason water had found its way into his 
car boot.
Again though, I think thats unlikely. If the tubes were blocked that would presumably mean  
that in a heavy  downpour the tubes would become full and further water would overflow the 
rim under the roof into the cars  cabin. 
The alternative  less likely in my view - might  be that the water pressure forced a fissure  in 
the tubes or caused them to detach from the exit channel for the water.  Even if that were the 
case, the cause  of the problem would appear  to be a design fault and/or wear and tear 
rather than an accident as such.  
I note here that Mr Ws explanation of the flooding   from his research on the internet  
suggests the cause is a design fault,  not an accident. So, even if his version  of events is 
true, the damage is not covered by the policy.
And I dont  think we could  say that Mr W leaving the roof tilted  was an accident causing  
damage. He may not have intended  to leave  the roof open and did so accidentally,  but the 
roof is clearly designed not to be watertight in any case  hence the mechanism for diverting 
any water  out of the car via the drainage pipes.
Covea had an independent expert assess the car. He thought the damage was caused  by a 
maintenance issue and wasnt covered by the insurance policy.  But he couldnt provide a 
definitive explanation for the water  in the boot.
Mr W then had another expert assess the car and they were  unsure how the damage had 
occurred. 
And no further expert inspections are possible because the car is no longer in Mr Ws 
possession.
So, I dont think we can get to the bottom  of what actually caused the water to collect in 
Mr Ws car boot. And I have to go on what I think is most  likely.
On balance, Im satisfied that the water is unlikely  to have  entered Mr Ws boot due to an 
accident  a single unexpected event. And no-ones suggesting that malicious damage or 
vandalism are in play. 
Ref: DRN56862493I think its far more likely  given where the water collected   that the damage  was due to 
either wear and tear in Mr Ws car or a design fault which  caused  the drainage pipes to fail.
I should stress here that my decision is about whether Covea acted reasonably  and fairly  in 
the way they considered Mr Ws claim.  Theyve  taken all the available evidence into account, 
including the expert  reports. And Im satisfied their conclusion  based on that evidence - 
isnt unjustified or unreasonable or unfair.
Covea have admitted  service failings in their handling of Mr Ws claim. They did fail to call 
him back when theyd promised to do so, which meant he had to chase them. And there  
were some minor delays  which  might have been  avoided.
However, bearing in mind  the limited  extent of the delays   and the amount of contact 
between Mr W and Covea during the claim  handling  Im satisfied the £100 offered by 
Covea is enough  to compensate Mr W for his trouble and upset. 
I also take into account the fact that Covea  provided a courtesy car for Mr W for a period of 
time when  they werent obliged to do so under  the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5686249