K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Yorkshire  Building  Society mis-sold  them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs J arranged a joint mortgage  which started in February1991. This complaint  is 
about a PPI policy they took out in March 1991.  The policy protected  their monthly  mortgage  
repayments in the event  of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagree. They  
told us that they didn't know at the time that they had PPI. In response  to our adjudicators 
assessment of their complaint they also told us that they were  told by a mortgage broker that 
this was the only way they could get a mortgage.
Theyve asked for an ombudsman to review whats happened,  so this complaint comes  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
Ive seen their Yorkshire Building Society mortgage  application form. This includes  a section 
which mentions Key Payment Protection (this is what Yorkshire  Building  Society  called its 
PPI) and theres a brief description  of the cover  it provided in the event of accident, sickness  
and unemployment.  It also says here: The Society  strongly recommends you take out this 
cover.
And theres  a tick box for applicants to say if they wish to take advantage of this cover. 
I dont think this wording wouldve suggested  to Mr and Mrs J that they had to take out the 
cover with their mortgage. And it looks like Mr and Mrs J understood this at the time. I say 
this because theres a handwritten note on the form next to the tick box that says: will 
advise.
This suggests to me that Mr and Mrs J were  aware at the time that PPI was available if they 
wanted to take it out  and that it was their choice.  I dont  know  what mightve  been  
discussed when  Mr and Mrs J applied  for their mortgage. But theres nothing on the 
application that wouldve led them to think that they had to take out PPI. And it looks like 
they understood at the time that it was optional  given that they chose not to tick the box in 
order to take it out with their mortgage  when  completing the application. 
I've also seen Mr and Mrs Js mortgage  offer which shows that they were  offered the 
mortgage without  PPI around  the beginning of February  1991.  The mortgage  started  later 
that month.
Ref: DRN55542962Under the policy terms Mr and Mrs J were still able to apply to have PPI even after their 
mortgage started as long as they did this within 28 days  of their mortgage  starting.  And the 
paperwork I've seen suggests thats  what happened.  
In order to take out the PPI Mr and Mrs J had to complete a separate application form which  
says: Complete and return  this form to the Yorkshire Building Society branch which  is 
arranging your mortgage. They filled in their details and the amount of monthly  benefit  they 
required. And they both signed the completed form to say they wished to have  PPI. Their 
application is date stamped and shows it was received on 4 March  1991 and the insurance 
started the next day. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Js home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. So, I can see why they mightve  felt PPI was useful to have  at the time. 
I can completely understand if Mr and Mrs J have forgotten some of these details  after so 
long. But, based  on all the information  Ive seen, I find on balance that Yorkshire  Building  
Society made Mr and Mrs J aware that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it.
Yorkshire Building Society didnt advise Mr and Mrs J to have the policy. But 
Yorkshire Building Society still had to make  sure that Mr and Mrs J had enough information 
to make a proper decision about  whether PPI was right for them.
Cover was available for joint mortgage borrowers and there  was an equal  50:50 split of the 
benefit. 
Mr and Mrs J opted for accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They  took out this 
mortgage when  they were  both earning.  And I think its likely that theyd have found it difficult  
to keep up their mortgage monthly repayments  in the long term if either (or both) of them 
couldnt work or lost their job. The policy wouldve paid the benefit amount theyd said they 
wanted for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. Ive seen nothing to suggest  
that Mr and Mrs J had any other reliable means  of paying the mortgage monthly repayments 
in the long term if they werent working. Having the policy  in place wouldve given them  
peace of mind that their home was protected.  
Mr and Mrs J were both eligible for the policy. There were  some things the policy  didnt 
cover. I dont know how much information Mr and Mrs J were  given  about  this. But, it doesnt 
look as if they were affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions when they took out 
the policy. So I dont  think more information about things that didnt affect  them wouldve 
made any difference to their decision to take out PPI.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs J knew what the monthly cost to have the PPI would be when they 
applied to take it out. But they took it out when they didnt  have  to  so it looks like they 
wanted to have the cover and they were happy to pay for it at the time. They couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time if they decided they no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Looked at overall, its possible that there mightve  been some failings in the way this policy 
was sold. But I think Mr and Mrs J still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if theyd been 
better informed as it gave  them useful protection.  I dont  think  that having better information 
about the policy wouldve put them off taking it out. 
Ref: DRN55542963Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs J say they couldve claimed on the policy if theyd  
known they had it. But that doesnt mean  that PPI must have been mis-sold when they took 
it out and it isnt a reason for me to uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs J may wish to contact 
the insurer directly to see if it would be prepared to accept  and consider  a retrospective 
claim. If they pursue a retrospective claim and find that they have concerns in this regard, 
then they should first tell the insurer why theyre  unhappy. And if theyre unable to reach a 
satisfactory conclusion, they may be able to bring  a complaint relating to the retrospective 
claim to this Service as a separate matter. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5554296