K820x#14complaint
Miss M says The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited (Prudential) has provided incorrect  
information about her pension  plans.  Shes  particularly unhappy that when she wanted to 
take her benefits  in 2018 a MVR (market  value reduction) could apply.  
background  
One of our investigators  considered this complaint. It followed on from an earlier  complaint 
Miss M had made against Prudential about the same pension  plans. That complaint was 
about charges  and lower bonus rates than Miss M had been expecting. During  our 
investigation of that complaint further  issues arose  which  weve dealt with under this 
separate complaint reference. 
On this further complaint the investigator  issued his initial  view on 10 January  2019. He 
didnt uphold  the complaint. He issued an updated  view on 20 December 2019. Again he 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Very briefly he said: 
Prudential should have adjusted Miss Ms plans in line with the final decision wed 
issued on her first complaint
It wasnt possible to ensure Prudential provided  correct and clear information  on an 
ongoing basis. Miss M could make  a further  complaint,  although having to do so 
wasnt ideal. We reported complaints referred  to and accepted  by us to the regulator. 
Prudentials Principles  and Practices of Financial Management (PPFM)  document  
was relevant to Miss Ms current complaint. If she thought Prudential  was 
mismanaging her plan she might want to inform the regulator.  It was for Prudential  to 
exercise its commercial judgement when managing such a plan, including applying  
any MVR. 
We dont review  a business commercial judgment. Wed  look at if the policy terms 
were being applied fairly as well as the regulators rules and principles. And wed 
take into account industry practice. It was for Prudentials actuaries to decide  when  
and how any MVR should be applied. Information about a MVR hadnt been  clear but 
Miss M knew it might apply. The circumstances in which a MVR might be imposed 
included if benefits were taken before the policyholders selected  retirement  date 
(SRD). Given  this was an industrywide practice,  it wasnt  reasonable to say 
Prudential shouldnt  apply  a MVR, even if it could have made  things clearer.  
Prudential had paid,  in total,  £300  for the distress and inconvenience Miss M had 
suffered. It didnt need to pay any more. 
It didnt appear Prudential had made an error  about charges separate to that dealt 
with in the other complaint. Miss M could ask an actuary to provide evidence that an 
error had been made but thered be a cost to that. Wed  ask Prudential to review any 
new evidence.
Miss M was disappointed  with the investigators  views. In summary  she said:
She didnt need an actuary. Prudential hadnt  explained  the figures shed set out in 
her letter  dated 25 July 2018  (repeated  in her letter of 19 January 2019). Not all the 
issues about charges  raised in those letters had been investigated  under the other 
complaint reference. There were  discrepancies  which  Prudential  hadnt explained. 
She also referred to her emails to us sent on 8 July 2019  and 10 September 2019.  
General information  about the application of a MVR had been provided. Shed read 
the terms and conditions of her plan and couldnt see where the application of a MVR 
Ref: DRN51995672is mentioned.  Shed  understood  companies reserve the right to change their policy  
about MVRs in the light of significant  moves in the stock market  or if theres a 
significant increase  in withdrawals by policyholders. But Prudential  had said the level 
of MVR applied can change on a daily basis. That means the MVR can change  by up 
to £2,000 from one day to the next. Following industrywide practice wouldnt cause a 
MVR to alter significantly from one day to the next. 
Wed said information hadnt been  clear. If the terms  and conditions arent clear when 
the contract is entered into, its an unfair  contract. Customers  are told its important to 
read the terms and conditions at the outset.  But if things arent included and/or are 
unclear it shouldnt be possible for a company later to rely on them against the 
customer. Thats unfair and probably illegal. 
We shared Miss Ms comments with Prudential. It said:
It had replied to Miss Ms letter  dated  25 July 2018 on 8 October  2018.  It understood 
Miss M didnt receive the letter. But that letter and its letter of 6 February 2019 did 
address the points  shed raised.  
Its letter of 8 October 2018 explained an issue had been identified  with system 
generated letters for her policies  the aggregated  value didnt match the individual  
values. So special  instructions had been  added to ensure  statements were  produced  
manually. Hopefully  that should avoid future conflicting values. Referencing  of figures 
Miss M quoted wouldnt have been  appropriate  given the error identified. 
The MVR is explained in the annual statements. Miss M acknowledged that in her 
letter of 25 July 2018 and referred  to statements shed got. Prudential didnt have 
copies of the early  statements shed mentioned. But it attached copies of the 2017, 
2018 and 2019  statements which refer to a MVR and when it might apply.
It isnt possible to know  in advance when a MVR might  apply. It had explained the 
exceptions when  a MVR doesnt apply. Information regarding  the with-profits  fund 
and its management  is contained  in the PPFM. It attached the most recent version.  
The investigator set out his further thoughts to Miss M on 6 January  2020. In summary, he 
said Prudentials offer to issue  manually  prepared statements was fair. He didnt think there 
was a (further) charging error. He agreed the MVR wasnt  clear  in the original terms but it 
was shown on the annual statements. Miss M hadnt suffered any detriment as she wouldnt 
have acted differently  or opted  for a plan where  a MVR wouldnt apply. Not all situations  as 
to when a MVR  might  apply had been outlined. But enough had been done for Miss M to 
know that a MVR can apply. The application  of a MVR wasnt  a loss as such.  Whether a 
MVR is to apply at any time and the value was for the business actuaries to decide. 
Miss M made detailed  submissions in response which Ive summarised under three main 
headings.   
figures/charges
Going forwards Prudential  will issue manually produced statements. But that wont tell her 
how much  of the information in earlier statements had been incorrect. Prudential should  
issue manually prepared  statements for 2010  to 2018 to allow her to check  the charges 
deducted and which seemed too high. Shed used Prudentials data and if that was wrong 
her calculations would be incorrect  too. It had been  agreed, in dealing  with her other 
complaint, that Prudential  overcharged in their application  of type A unit charges. Its very 
possible that the charges are still incorrect.   
Ref: DRN51995673MVR
Miss M explained how her retirement plans had been disrupted. Shed  chosen a SRD of 60 
but she could  have taken her benefits  at any time between age 50 and 75. Initially she 
thought shed take her benefits at age 50 but the legislation  then changed meaning shed 
have to wait until age 55. That would  have been  the case  regardless of who her pension was 
with.  
Coming up to her 55th birthday the economy  had been stable. But BREXIT  was on the 
horizon. She wanted to take her benefits  before  any new uncertainty  could mean penalties 
were imposed and final bonuses reduced. It didnt appear a MVR would apply. The only 
charge would be in relation to the remaining type A units. But she discovered she was 
unable to take her benefits at age 55 without risking a very substantial MVR. 
She accepted that with all with-profits plans a MVR on early encashment was possible. Her 
policy documentation  said Prudential may (not will) apply a MVR. But she didnt think  market 
conditions at the time justified the application of a MVR. Prudential hadnt  followed the 
industry norm  and hadnt made that clear prior to her entering into the contract. 
Shed have been prepared if MVRs had been shown  on statements between  2010 and 
2018. Or if other providers  were applying MVRs or market conditions had changed. But the 
last time any of her providers said a MVR would have been  applied on the statement date 
was 2010. So, for nine years on statements and during telephone conversations,  Prudential 
had said a MVR wasnt applicable. 
She couldnt have  foreseen  a MVR could apply, making it almost impossible for her to 
withdraw from the with-profits fund prior to her SRD  without risking a substantial  MVR. It 
wasnt fair for her to have to wait to take her benefits to avoid a MVR  when the policy terms 
were unclear, Prudential  had provided incorrect, misleading and unclear information over 
many years and was acting outside the industry  norm. She was also concerned as to how 
the amount of any MVR could change by some  £2,000 in a matter of days. For example 
Prudential had said a MVR didnt apply on Friday 15 March  2019 but on Monday 18 March 
2019 a MVR of £1,791.49  applied. 
In particular she referred to the following:  
annual statements
Of the annual  statements  issued between 2005 and 2018 only the 2008 and 2009  
statements said a MVR had been applicable. All the others said a MVR hadnt  been 
applicable on the statement date. Thats consistent with statements issued for her 
pension arrangements with two other major providers   they showed MVRs were 
only applied in 2009 and 2010  for one provider  and 2008  for the other.  So the 
industry norm  suggests a MVR was likely between  2008  and 2010. Thats  consistent  
with the then banking crisis  and the economic uncertainty.  
the policy documentation and other information  provided
Miss M explained that she researches products and suppliers carefully,  choosing  
reputable companies with proven  track records. If she discovers anything  untoward 
she uses a different provider. At the time her work involved checking the terms and 
Ref: DRN51995674conditions of contracts including any special requirements. The contract with Scottish 
Amicable seemed in line with other providers. 
The policy terms and conditions issued by Scottish Amicable form the basis  of the 
contract. Theres nothing explaining  the application of MVRs. The documentation 
about the acquisition of Scottish  Amicable by Prudential said the terms and 
conditions of her policy  wouldnt  change.  A booklet included a section  about  the 
application of MVRs but didnt suggest the amount will significantly change from day 
to day. Or that Prudential would act differently from rest of the industry.  
She got a letter from Prudential  in June 2006  with a leaflet  Your  With-profits Plan - 
A Guide  to how we Manage the Fund. The section  What if you decide  to move out 
of With-Profits" said a MVR is applied if investment returns  have been  poor while the 
investment has been in the fund to protect investors who are not taking their money 
out. Again  it doesnt suggest  MVRs will alter significantly on a daily basis. 
Since March 2010 a leaflet (updated over the years) entitled Your  Yearly  Benefit 
Statement has been issued with her annual statement. In the Your Questions 
Answered Section , in response to the question Why  is there a difference between 
the current fund value and the transfer  value?  Prudential said final bonus was 
included in the transfer value but not the current fund value. A further difference  was 
due to any charges  made on transfer of benefits  to another provider. 
Miss Ms correspondence with Prudential
Prudential's letters  dated 13 December 2013 and 18 February  2014 said,  depending 
on market conditions,  a MVR  may apply  to any early withdrawal out of the with-profit 
fund prior to SRD.  
In her letter of 21 February 2014 shed specifically asked if a charge would be 
incurred or a loss of bonus arise if she altered her SRD  to age 55 or left it at 60 but 
took benefits early  at age 55. Prudential  replied on 13 March 2014 saying she 
couldnt change  her SRD to 55 but could  take benefits before her SRD. She was only 
told about the early  retirement charge equivalent  in value to the balance of the 
additional fund management charges (ie the charge  for the remaining  type A units 
which were discontinued in January 2019). 
It wasnt until Prudential's letter of 21 May 2018  that it became apparent that it was 
applying a MVR and the amount could change substantially on a daily basis.  
service issues
Miss M didnt think the £300 compensation Prudential had paid was adequate for all the 
distress and inconvenience shed been  caused. 
Shed first raised concerns in 2014.  Initially her financial adviser was involved but had given 
up, saying it was impossible to get clear and accurate information  from Prudential. For 
reasons she explained, Miss M hadnt  chased  things up again until May 2017. Again her 
financial adviser was initially  involved but withdrew for the same reason  as before. If her 
adviser had dealt with it all, the fee would have been several  thousand pounds. Instead 
shed had all the inconvenience. She shouldnt be short changed when it comes to 
compensation for the time shed spent plus the distress and inconvenience  shed been 
caused. 
As matters hadnt been resolved, shed been  unable  to take her pension  benefits at age 55. 
It seems  she wont be able to take them until age 60 (her SRD) unless shes  prepared  to 
accept a MVR which she doesnt think,  given  current market conditions, theres any reason 
Ref: DRN51995675for Prudential to apply.  Prudential  was continuing  to cause her distress and £300 wasnt  
adequate. 
Referring to her previous  complaint she said she didnt think Prudential had correctly 
adjusted for its overcharging.  But, as incorrect figures had been  issued over many years, it 
was difficult for her to be certain of anything. The whole point of issuing annual statements 
was so policyholders can check their arrangements  are on track to meet  their needs. 
Because, and as Prudential admits, the information  given  in her annual  statements was 
wrong, shed thought  everything was on track when it wasnt. Shed been misled  into thinking 
she could take pension benefits around her 55th birthday  without incurring a MVR.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  if Miss M is disappointed.  I dont expect her to agree with what Ive said.  But I hope 
Ive explained  my reasoning. 
figures/charges
As Ive mentioned  Miss M made a previous complaint about overcharging. A final decision 
on that matter has been  issued by one of my ombudsman colleagues. But Miss M refers to 
the charging issue as overlapping both complaints.  And she says shed like her whole 
complaint reconsidered. She also refers to Prudential having  got away with some  things. 
Its clear she isnt entirely happy with the outcome of her previous complaint. But, and as I 
think Miss M is aware,  as an ombudsmans final decision  has been issued, that complaint 
cant be revisited. So I havent considered the issues addressed in my colleagues decision.
That doesnt  mean that I cant  look into any new or different issues  about charges. I note 
Miss M is still worried shes  been overcharged.  Shes referred to her letters  of 25 July 2018 
and 19 January 2019 to Prudential and to her emails to us sent on 8 July 2019 and 10 
September 2019. 
Miss Ms letters and Prudentials replies dated  8 October 2019 (which letter Miss M initially  
didnt receive) and 6 February 2019  were considered as part of the earlier  complaint about 
charges. So Im not going to revisit them here. And, as far as I can see, Miss M didnt raise 
any new and specific issues about charges  which werent dealt  with, either by Prudential in 
its responses to her letters or which didnt form part of our investigation into her original 
complaint. 
Ive looked at Miss Ms emails to us dated 8 July 2019 and 10 September 2019. The first is 
mainly in response to the decision my colleague  issued  on the original complaint. Miss M did 
go on to mention her current  complaint and (referring back  to her letter of 25 July 2018) she 
said it had been  almost impossible to calculate  exactly how much Prudential had 
overcharged her because incorrect information  had been provided  over many years. 
Similarly she said in her later email that she still couldnt be sure, because the errors 
Prudential has made, that her plans had been  fully corrected. In her further  email  of 10 
September 2019 Miss M repeated that she couldnt  be sure, in view of all the errors 
Ref: DRN51995676Prudential had made, that it had fully corrected her plans. And she reiterated  that she didnt 
think Prudential had addressed all the issues shed  raised about  charges. 
First, if Miss M isnt satisfied that Prudential has correctly  adjusted its charges in line with my 
colleagues decision, then she should take that up with Prudential.  Ordinarily we probably  
wouldnt get involved in what  might be termed an enforcement issue.  But here, given the 
history of the matter,  if Miss M has specific concerns about whether Prudential has correctly 
implemented my colleagues decision  and I dont  doubt that Prudential  would strive to do 
that anyway  and which she cant resolve with Prudential, she should  let us know  and well 
see if we can assist.  
Secondly, I can understand that, as some overcharging has been identified, Miss M may be 
less than confident that other  charging  errors havent been made. And I can understand why 
the fact that incorrect  information has been  provided  over the years may make  it more 
difficult to try to reconcile figures.  
But I do think its up to Miss M to point to something specific. From what  Ive seen shes just 
generally concerned  that she may still have  been  overcharged but she hasnt pointed  to 
anything in particular.  I dont think its reasonable to expect Prudential  (or us for that matter), 
in effect, to audit  her plans from inception up to date (although  as weve  said its open to 
Miss M if she wants to pay a third party  to do that). Nor do I think  its necessary or 
proportionate to say Prudential should  be required to create manually prepared statements  
going back to 2010. And I cant see theres much  point in asking Prudential  to reconcile 
figures which it now accepts were wrong.  
All in all Id agree with the approach suggested  by the investigator.  If, based on the 
information shes got now and taking into account  the adjustments  made  following  my 
colleagues decision, Miss M considers  there has been further overcharging (separate and 
distinct to the overcharging  issues she raised and which were the subject of my colleagues 
decision) she should explain  why thats her view, supported by calculations  and/or 
examples. We can then ask Prudential to check.  If things cant be resolved then well see if 
we can assist. But as things stand, despite Miss Ms understandable worry that the charges 
may still be incorrect, I dont think this aspect of the matter can be taken further forward. 
MVR
Ive next considered the MVR. Im sorry  Miss Ms retirement plans  have been  disrupted and 
she wasnt able to take her benefits  in 2018  because  of the risk a substantial MVR might  be 
applied. Shes  explained  how that came as an unwelcome surprise  and disappointment.  
I dont think Miss M now disputes that Prudential has the right to apply a MVR. Looking  at 
the policy document, R.2.6 is about  with-profits funds. It says, about  the offer and bid prices:
The Bid and Offer Prices shall be subject to the following-
(i) The Offer  Price shall not fall
(ii) The Bid Price applicable  in the event  of survival of the Investor to the Selected  
Retirement Date or on his previous death shall be not less than 95% of the Offer Price, 
rounded to the next lower  0.1 p.
(iii) Subject to the above, the Offer and Bid Prices of units  shall be determined  by the
Actuary having regard to prevailing financial conditions
Further Bonus  units, Special Bonus or Terminal Bonus may be added by the Directors
Ref: DRN51995677from time to time as appropriate
The Society reserves the right to introduce  further With-profits  Funds  or to subdivide,
close or merge existing  Funds.
Units in any Fund may be consolidated or subdivided at any time at the discretion of the
Society.
MVR isnt mentioned as such. When this policy was sold the term MVR or MVA (market  
value adjustment)  wasnt as commonly used. Its now widely understood to represent an 
adjustment made where  the current value of a plan is considered  to be greater than the 
plan's fair share of the underlying investments.  The later produced  information,  such  as the 
booklets and leaflets to which Miss M has referred and the references  on the annual 
statements, do refer to MVR  as such and explain it. 
And I think the reference, in sub clause (iii) above, to the actuary determining, having regard 
to prevailing financial  conditions, the offer and bid prices of units in the with-profits funds  
does cover a MVR being applied.  It gives  Scottish  Amicable and its successor, Prudential, 
the power to adjust  offer and bid prices of units on advice from its actuaries. That would 
include imposing a MVR. At SRD or earlier death  the unit price is protected  as set out in sub 
clause (ii).  So Im satisfied Prudential  has the contractual right to impose  a MVR if benefits 
are taken earlier than SRD.  
Miss M has said the contract was unclear and she was misled  into entering it. And I note 
what shes said about researching Scottish Amicables terms and conditions before taking 
out the policy.  As Ive indicated the policy didnt mention MVR as such.  The exact wording  
of a policy will differ from provider to provider. Some may have made the possibility of MVR 
(which as Ive said wouldnt have been referred  to as such  at the time) and when it might 
apply clearer. But I think it was commonplace within  the industry  to include some provision to 
allow with-profits fund values to be adjusted to better reflect the current market value of the 
underlying assets.  Im not convinced that Miss M would  have  declined  to have taken out the 
policy if the specific provision had been expressed differently or more  clearly and in the sort 
of language which wed expect to see today.  
Miss Ms argument is more about  if it was right for Prudential to impose a MVR in 2018 
which coincided with her plan to take her pension benefits early. So shes  really alleging  that 
Prudential isnt managing and running  its with-profits fund fairly  by imposing a MVR which 
wasnt justified in the then financial climate and, as she puts it, outside  the industry norm.  
First Id acknowledge that with-profits funds have attracted criticism for their lack of 
transparency. I understand Miss Ms suspicions  about the imposition of MVR. I accept that it 
can be very difficult for policyholders  to satisfy  themselves they are receiving what  they are 
entitled to under the terms of their plan. But that doesnt necessarily  mean that the business 
concerned has got something wrong. 
As previously explained, Prudential  is accountable  to the industry  regulator (the Financial 
Conduct Authority   FCA) for the way in which it operates its with-profits  fund and in 
accordance with it PPFM document. And the regulator monitors  the management of it. 
Businesses are required to appoint a with-profits  actuary and the FCA provides rules and 
guidance on their duties. Prudential also has an independent With-Profits Committee whose 
remit is to protect the interests of the with-profits policyholders and ensure that they are 
treated fairly. 
Ref: DRN51995678Where a commercial decision has been made by a business, relating to policyholders 
generally, this goes much wider than the individual  complaint and concerns the way the 
business operates. Matters of this nature may be reported to the FCA. We wouldnt normally 
interfere with the legitimate exercise of a business commercial judgment. 
I think any decision to impose a MVR and if so how much is a commercial decision for the 
business and its actuaries.  Indeed  Miss M accepts thats right, in principle at least. But I think  
her point is that there were no proper grounds  for Prudential to impose  a MVR in around 
May 2018. On that basis she might argue that the decision  wasnt  a legitimate exercise of its 
commercial judgment.  
Miss M has pointed to economic conditions being  stable  in the early part of 2018. Shes 
correct in saying  that providers  generally  reserve the right to impose MVR in the light of 
significant moves in the stock market or in the event of a significant  increase in the level of 
withdrawals taken by its policyholders. I note sub clause (iii) quoted  above  says that 
Prudentials actuaries are required to have regard to prevailing  financial conditions.
But that doesnt mean, in a climate of relative  financial  stability, there will never be valid 
grounds for imposing a MVR.  Whilst Prudentials actuaries must have regard to the 
prevailing financial conditions thats  not the only thing they can consider. Theyll take into 
account actual  and known factors affecting  the with-profits funds. But theyll also make  
assumptions about a variety of factors, including future economic conditions  and expected  
fund performance,  expenses and liabilities  as well as other variables, for example, improving 
mortality rates. 
Any change is applied without prior notice  it wouldnt make sense to give any warning and 
which could just prompt policyholders to try to withdraw their funds. And which is itself a 
factor as to why a MVR might be applied. I dont  think the fact that not all providers may 
apply a MVR at the same  time or at the same sort of level is indicative of a particular 
provider being  out of step with the industry generally. Different providers will apply different 
criteria and which are subject to change and related to commercially sensitive factors  that 
arent made public. The same applies to how any MVR is calculated on any particular day. 
I can understand why Miss M may perhaps feel she was perhaps  lulled into a false sense  of 
security because the annual statements she received between 2010 and March 2018  didnt 
indicate that Prudential would impose a MVR.  But that didnt mean  Prudential  gave her 
wrong information. The statements reflected Prudentials position at the time.   
And Prudentials  letters  of 13 December 2013  and 18 February 2014 said, depending on 
market conditions, a MVR may apply  to any early withdrawal out of the with-profit fund prior 
to SRD. Prudentials letter of 13 March 2014 (in response to Miss Ms letter of 21 February 
2014) may not have repeated that. But Miss M was still aware  from the earlier letters  that a 
MVR could apply. 
All in all Miss M knew a MVR could apply. She was no doubt reassured by the fact that 
thered been a long period  where  no MVR had been imposed. And her view of market 
conditions was that there was nothing to justify  a MVR. That said,  I note she wanted to take 
her benefits  in advance of BREXIT. She may not have  been the only policyholder who took 
that view and which may have been  factored into Prudentials  decision to apply a MVR. As 
Ive said above,  it wouldnt make sense to give notice that a MVR was to be imposed with 
effect from a certain date.  That might prompt more policyholders to seek to withdraw their 
Ref: DRN51995679funds and, as Miss M accepts, increased withdrawals is one of the factors  that could give 
rise to a MVR being applied
The timing  was unfortunate for Miss M. Shed got her annual  statement in March 2018  which  
didnt indicate  any MVR would apply. But by the time shed turned 55 just a couple of months 
later it became clear  that she did risk a MVR if she took her benefits  early. Thats  forced her 
to delay taking  her benefits.  That may not be ideal for Miss M. But for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think Prudential had done anything  wrong. So Im not going to say Miss M 
shouldnt suffer any MVR if she decides  to take her benefits early. Nor do I think Prudential  
is responsible for any further or ongoing distress or inconvenience Miss M has suffered in 
consequence of not being able to access her benefits MVR free before her SRD.  
service issues
Ive thought carefully about whether the £300 Prudential has already paid is sufficient 
compensation for its admitted  service failures.  I note what  Miss M says about the adviser  
fees she could  have incurred. I dont disagree with what shes said.  But Id point out that we 
wouldnt generally make an award in respect of such costs. Were an informal  dispute  
resolution service and it isnt generally necessary for a consumer to appoint an adviser or 
other professional to deal with the complaint  on the consumers behalf. A consumer is of 
course free to appoint a representative to handle the complaint. But its only in exceptional 
circumstances that wed make an award  for the fees incurred. 
I accept that Miss M has spent much time dealing with this matter.  And that shes  suffered 
inconvenience, as well as upset, disappointment and frustration. But our awards for what 
wed term trouble and upset are perhaps more modest than Miss M might  think  appropriate. I 
think £300 is within the range Id expect for this sort of situation  and bearing in mind  that Im 
unable to agree with Miss M that all aspects of her complaint  should  be upheld.  
my final decision
Prudential has already paid Miss M £300. I dont  think Prudential  needs to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5199567