K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) is pursuing her for a debt shes 
paid already. And she complains that she fell whilst  in branch and had to be attended by an 
ambulance. Ms K is being helped  in her complaint  by her daughter.
background
Ms K says shes made additional payments to her account but these  havent been applied to 
reduce the balance  she owes on her credit card. She says that cash  payments were made at 
branches of Barclays to pay her credit card bill. The payments were made  using a drop box 
facility and nine receipts of payments made between March 2014 and November 2014 have  been 
provided. Ms Ks daughter  says other payments were also made - but due to the passage of time 
receipts havent been provided for these.
When our investigator looked into matters  she compared the receipts  to Ms Ks statements.  She 
concluded that there were four cash payments which hadnt  been applied to Ms Ks credit card 
account. In her opinion:-
   as half of the slips Ms K provided  were paid into her credit card account she felt 
inclined to give Ms K the benefit of the doubt and thought it likely that the cash 
payments had been paid in, but not credited  by Barclaycard. So she thought  
Barclaycard should credit the account with the missing  £140 and that it should 
also refund any interest  charged on these  amounts;
    although  Ms Ks daughter said other payments had also been made  to the account 
the investigator wasnt  able to consider these without evidence;  and
    she had no way of knowing what happened at the branch when  Ms K fell but from 
what shed seen she didnt think Barclays was responsible  for Ms K being hurt.
She recommended  that Ms Ks account should be credited with the missing £140 and that 
Barclaycard should adjust  the interest it had charged. She could  see from the banks notes  that 
Ms K had contacted Barclaycard a number  of times  about  the missing payments and it hadnt 
investigated matters  at the time. The situation had cased Ms K a lot of distress so she 
recommended that Barclaycard should  also pay Ms K £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Barclaycard disagrees. It says the receipts provided by Ms Ks daughter dont show proof  that 
the payments were  made. One of the receipts was for money deposited before Ms Ks 
Barclaycard was opened. Another  of the payments made early in April 2014 for £20 was 
credited to Ms Ks current account. And there were  three payments made on the same  day in 
early April 2014 so its not logical that these three payments were intended for the same 
account.
Barclaycard doesnt agree that it should credit the missing payments, adjust the interest or 
pay £150  compensation  so its asked for an ombudsmans decision.
provisional decision
I recently issued my provisional decision  to explain why I was intending to uphold  Ms Ks 
complaint in part. Following my provisional  decision I invited both parties  to provide further  
information before  I issued  my final decision.
Barclays replied to say it had nothing further to add.
Ms Ks daughter has replied with detailed comments. And I can see how strongly  she feels  about 
this complaint. Ive read and considered  her further  detailed points  but in keeping with this 
Ref: DRN55993882services role as an informal dispute resolution  service  I havent  responded in similar detail. In 
summary her main concerns are:-
she feels theyve been let down  by Barclays;
Barclays failed to carry out the proper procedures to help them;
her mothers  account  was closed down out of nowhere after her accident at Barclays  
and this isnt mentioned  in the provisional  decision;
there was no mention of her mothers health  issues in my provisional  decision;
I failed  to mention a letter from Barclays in which  it made a refund of £184 as it 
recognised we did not always meet our expected standard  for certain customers who 
were in excess of an agreed  limit or who had fallen behind on their loan repayments.
my  findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Ive looked carefully at the additional information  Ms Ks 
daughter has told me about  Ms Ks complaint. But Im afraid it doesnt change my conclusions  
about whats happened  taking all the facts and circumstances into account.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms K but based  on the information Ive seen  Im not satisfied that the 
receipts provided by Ms K show proof  of the payments  she suggests.
Ms Ks daughter says she deposited cash at Barclays to reduce the outstanding balance on Ms 
Ks credit card account. The drop box facility works on the basis that customers  deposit  money 
in an envelope. The customer  then completes details of the cash deposited and retains a tear-
off slip of the details and a serial number. However, the tear-off slip isnt counter-signed or 
stamped as received by the bank and it doesnt contain  details of the account into which the 
money is being paid.
Where theres a lack of conclusive information I have to make a decision based on what  I think  
is most likely  to have happened. Based on the information Ive seen Im not satisfied that the 
receipts alone show that cash deposits were made to Ms Ks Barclaycard account.
Of the nine receipts provided only four of them  are shown as paid in on Ms Ks Barclaycard  
statement. One of the payments was made before  Ms K opened her Barclaycard account  and 
our investigator had already discounted this payment.  Ive seen  that another payment for £20 
made in early April 2014  was credited to Ms Ks current account. And Im persuaded by 
Barclaycards argument  that it would be strange for three deposits made  on the same day to be 
intended to be paid into the same account. So I think it more likely that separate receipts  would 
indicate payments  to separate accounts.
I realise that Ms K will be disappointed by this but I dont intend to require  Barclaycard to 
credit Ms K with £140  or to adjust the interest on her account. Although  I appreciate that Ms 
Ks daughter  says more cash deposits were paid in addition  to the receipts she has provided, 
Im unable to consider those without any further evidence.
I can see that Barclaycards recoveries  notes show Ms K called several times between August 
2015 and April 2016  and again in November 2016 to explain  about the missing payments. Im of 
the opinion Barclaycard  should have done more to investigate the problem. But I can also see 
from Barclaycards customer notes  that when  Ms K rang Barclaycard  in August  2015 things 
were initially left for Ms K to look into. So Im not persuaded that the trouble  and upset  this has 
caused is enough to warrant  payment of £150.
Ref: DRN55993883Instead Im of the opinion that a fair outcome is for Barclaycard to pay £75 compensation to Ms K 
for the trouble and upset it has caused because of the poor service she received.
In relation to Ms Ks fall at the branch  I cant make any finding about this. This is because where  
a person suffers an injury this isnt something that this service is able to consider. We can only 
look at the services  provided by banks and other financial institutions. If there  was any 
suggestion an injury was caused  because of somebody elses actions, this would be a matter  
either for the police or legal action.
response to the further  information  provided  on Ms Ks behalf:-
I can only consider matters  relating to the original  grounds of complaint  to Barclays  which I 
understand to be that cash payments made to Ms Ks account  werent applied to her account and 
to a fall Ms K had whilst in branch. So Im unable to consider the closure  of Ms Ks account after 
her fall as this isnt something  that formed part of the original complaint.
Although Im aware  of Ms Ks health issues  I didnt make specific reference to them  to help 
ensure she is not identified.
Ive also explained above why I cant make any finding about any injury suffered by Ms K as a 
result of her fall.
With regard  to Barclays letter in which it refunded £184 my understanding is that this was a 
refund to Ms Ks current account  following a review  of those customers  who were in excess of an 
agreed account limit or who had fallen behind on loan repayments  - so I dont  consider  this 
relates to the issues relating to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im intending to uphold this complaint  in part. And I instruct Barclays 
Bank Plc to pay £75 to Ms K for the trouble and upset caused  by the poor service she received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5599388