K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, trading as Hitachi  Personal  Finance (Hitachi 
Capital), havent supported a claim  she made  to them under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
 
background
In July 2018 Ms W ordered  doors  and windows  through  a retailer Ill call A. She financed  
the order through a five year fixed sum loan with Hitachi Capital and she was also liable to 
pay an additional £401 in cash.
Ms W has had problems  with the installation. A summary of events is as follows:
dates  in 2018 action
20 August Agreed installation  date but fitters didnt show up.
21 August Work was rescheduled  but windows were  the wrong  size. The 
downstairs windows were  temporarily fitted but upstairs work wasnt  
commenced.
25 August Reorganised date for fitting upstairs  but fitters  didnt show up.
30 August All windows  fitted.
20 September Ms W complains to A that window frames are damaged  and poorly 
aligned. She makes a like claim to Hitachi Capital  under section 75.
18 October Ms W says fitters advise  units  are installed  poorly  and theyll need 
additional parts. Rectification isnt possible today and A attempt to 
reschedule. But Ms W explains shes out of holidays  and has an 
autistic son who is home schooled. She says it would  be too 
disruptive to have  the windows refitted  in the winter.
Hitachi Capital rejected Ms Ws section 75 claim as they thought A had offered a 
reasonable time frame to complete the rectification.  
So Ms W referred her complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided his opinion. He 
liaised with Hitachi Capital  on Ms Ws behalf and a proposal was made that A be allowed to 
complete the installation  and an independent  inspection of the work would then be 
commissioned to ensure it was done to satisfactory standard.  A also offered to discount  the 
work by £401 in respect of the disruption that had been caused to Ms W. The adjudicator  
thought this was a fair resolution but Ms W didnt  think it compensated her sufficiently. She 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms W but I agree  with the adjudicators view of this case. Please let 
me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN59666552Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Ms W made a claim through  them for 
breach of contract.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through  a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the lender as against 
the supplier if there's either a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier.
There doesnt appear to be a dispute  that the windows have not been fitted properly and 
theres therefore acceptance  that A has breached an implied term of the contract  it had 
with Ms W that the work would be of satisfactory quality.
So Ive therefore  considered whether Hitachi Capitals suggested resolution of this complaint 
is reasonable and I think  it is.
Its clear that repair attempts have been  made  and have failed and I can understand Ms Ws 
frustration and feeling that the contract should  be terminated.
If that were to be the case I think Hitachi Capital would be entitled to keep some of the 
finance instalments  that were due under the contract as Ms W has had some use from the 
windows. Although I understand that use has been  impaired by the poor quality of the 
workmanship. 
The windows would need  to be removed and a new installer would need to be appointed 
and paid. That seems  very messy and I think a more  practical solution would be to rectify the 
problems for Ms W and to provide a price reduction to compensate her for the problems 
shes experienced.
I think, in those circumstances, Hitachi Capitals offer is reasonable. The weather is now 
warmer and Ms Ws understandable concerns about  winter  fitting, and the disruption to her 
sons home schooling  can be somewhat  alleviated.  The suggestion to have an independent 
inspection to approve the work once completed seems a sensible one. It will, I think,  serve  to 
reassure Ms W of the quality of any remedial work  thats completed by A. I note that a 
discount of £401 has been  offered. Ms W has been inconvenienced by, amongst other 
things, the cancelled visits; poor workmanship  and need to book emergency holidays.  I think,  
in the circumstances, a discount of £401  is a reasonable price reduction and Im therefore 
not asking Hitachi  Capital to take any further  action than that already proposed.
Ref: DRN59666553my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc to:
arrange a suitable time with Ms W and complete the remedial work required;
arrange and pay for an independent inspection of the work;
discount the work by £401;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Ws credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5966655