K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc unreasonably declined  her request for a 
mortgage.
background
Mrs K had an interest-only mortgage  with HSBC which she took out on 6 September 2005  
for business purposes. She borrowed £35,000  on an interest-only  basis over 13 years. In 
July 2018 the mortgage reached the end of its term. 
Mrs K also had an overdraft of about £15,000 with HSBC (which is the subject of a separate  
final decision). Mrs K explained to HSBC that she had a friend who had offered to repay her 
debts, including  her credit card, overdraft and £20,000 of her mortgage. This would leave her 
with needing a mortgage of £15,000.
After considering her application, Mrs K wasnt able to borrow  further funds from HSBC. This 
was because Mrs K had a care plan in place and so didnt meet HSBCs lending  criteria.
HSBC referred Mrs K to the Society  of Later Life Advisers  (SOLLA) but Mrs K decided not to 
proceed with that organisation.  I understand Mrs K was able to borrow money privately to 
repay the mortgage. The mortgage account was paid off on 31 August 2018.
Mrs K complained that HSBC hadnt treated her fairly when it declined  her request. HSBC 
didnt uphold  the complaint, so it was brought to us where an investigator looked  at it. He 
also didnt think HSBC  had done  anything wrong.  Mrs K asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read everything provided by Mrs K 
and HSBC and Ive listened to the available calls.  To avoid identifying Mrs K, Ive omitted 
details that are specific to her, but I have taken them into account.
what we cant look at: I will begin  by clarifying one issue. The mortgage was taken out for 
business purposes, with the money  raised  being  used by Mrs K to invest  in her limited  
company. Mrs K had initially  told us that she wanted  to complain about the suitability of the 
advice to take out the mortgage  in 2005.  I can see she received a final response letter about 
this in August  2017. But (notwithstanding  any time limits that might apply) I think I should  
explain we wouldnt be able to consider  a complaint  about the sale of the mortgage  in 2005.  
This is because, under  our rules, we can only consider complaints from a consumer, micro-
enterprise, charity, trustee, small business or guarantor. 
By borrowing the money as an individual to invest in her limited company, Mrs K was not an 
individual acting  for purposes  which  are wholly or mainly outside her trade, business, craft or 
profession. So, Mrs K doesnt  meet the definition of an eligible complainant as set out in our 
rules in relation  to a complaint about the original sale of the mortgage in 2005, because, in 
borrowing the money to invest  in her company, she was acting within  her trade,  business,  
craft or profession.
Ref: DRN53890752what we can look at: We can look at Mrs Ks complaint about what  happened when the 
mortgage reached the end of its term and how HSBC dealt with this. In this regard,  I will be 
deciding whether or not HSBC considered Mrs Ks request for a mortgage fairly. What  I cant 
do is tell HSBC to offer Mrs K a mortgage,  or substitute my own lending  decision for the one 
reached by HSBC.
I can understand Mrs Ks frustration that HSBC wasnt able to help her by giving her another  
mortgage. As she said repeatedly during her calls with the bank, shes  been a customer  with 
HSBC for 50 years. Mrs K couldnt  understand why HSBC wasnt able to offer her another  
mortgage, given  her track record with the bank.
Mrs K believes she was categorised as an undesirable customer which  HSBC  no longer 
wanted. Im satisfied that this isnt the case. HSBC gave careful consideration to Mrs Ks 
request for further borrowing. HSBC is under a regulatory obligation to ensure that its 
lending is responsible, affordable and sustainable  for the customer. The bank  had concerns 
about affordability of any further lending, because StepChange was managing  Mrs Ks 
finances. Mrs K was at the limit of her £15,000 overdraft and also owed over £8,500 on her 
credit card. In the circumstances, I think the banks concerns were legitimate, even though 
that the amount Mrs K wanted to borrow was relatively small.
Mrs K told HSBC  that the friend who agreed  to lend her the money to pay off her mortgage 
only agreed to do so on condition HSBC gave  Mrs K a £15,000 mortgage to clear her 
overdraft. Its unfortunate that Mrs Ks friend imposed a condition on her that Mrs K was 
unable to fulfil. Im glad to see that this didnt,  ultimately, deter Mrs Ks friend from helping 
her out by paying  off the mortgage.
I can see there was initially some confusion, because HSBC told Mrs K that a mortgage 
application was ready for her to sign,  but then immediately told her it had been cancelled. 
This was because after an initial assessment, it was thought the application could proceed 
and so HSBC  went through  the first steps to create  the application  form. But on internal  
review, HSBC wasnt able to go ahead with it, as Mrs K's circumstances meant she needed 
to be referred to SOLLA.   
Its not clear from the calls Ive listened  to whether Mrs K actually spoke to SOLLA or not, 
because every time shes asked about  this she avoids confirming if she did so. But I think 
that, whether  or not Mrs K had actually spoken  to SOLLA, she would have remained 
steadfast in her insistence that the only outcome  she wanted was for HSBC to offer her a 
new mortgage.
I fully appreciate Mrs Ks argument that she believes there is no risk to HSBC in offering  her 
a mortgage, given the value of her property.  She falls within  the classic description of asset 
rich, cash poor. But, given her limited income and the level of debt across the overdraft and 
credit card, I think HSBC  was entitled  to decline the request for further borrowing.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs K was hoping for. Im aware  shes  been in ill health for a 
number of years, and I am sorry of my decision adds to her distress.  But in all the 
circumstances, Im unable to conclude that HSBC has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN53890753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5389075