K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained Retail Money  Market Ltd, trading as RateSetter, is asking him to pay 
back a loan he never took out with them.
background
After noticing  a direct debit to RateSetter about to go out of his account,  Mr W got in touch 
with them.  He found a loan had been set up in his name to pay for a mobile  phone. He said 
hed not taken this out and asked them to stop pursuing him for this.
RateSetter said they had a loan agreement in Mr Ws name.  They told him a phone  related 
to the loan  had been delivered to his address and signed for by him. The phone provider 
had set up a direct debit  on Mr Ws own account. As RateSetter wouldnt accept his 
arguments, Mr W brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included a copy of Mr Ws driving  licence which 
had first been provided. She was unable to explain how someone could have got hold of his 
driving licence  or intercepted the phone which was delivered to where Mr W used to live. 
Overall she found the delivery evidence more convincing. She didnt think  it would be fair to 
ask RateSetter to stop pursuing Mr W for the loan to be repaid.
Mr W was shocked this could be the conclusion. Hes asked an ombudsman  to consider his 
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 2 December  2019. I didnt think  the evidence showed  
Mr W took out this loan or benefited from the phone.  I said I was intending to ask RateSetter 
to stop pursuing  Mr W for this loan and pay him compensation for the distress  caused.
Mr W accepted my provisional findings. By the end of the time period, Id received nothing 
from RateSetter.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision. Ill explain why.  
Firstly Ive looked at the evidence  of the original application  made  in Mr Ws name. This was 
done using Mr Ws driving licence  a copy of which was sent to RateSetter on 1 August 
2017. The email  details dont match the email address Mr W has used in his complaint to us, 
as RateSetter noted. They admit they thought it was possible  the loan had been taken out by 
someone who knew Mr W well.  
That may well be the case but it doesnt  mean  the loan was applied  for by Mr W.
The address  used for the loan application and delivery of the mobile phone was Mr Ws 
address (until he moved a month or so afterwards). There doesnt  seem to be any record  of 
a phone number  with the application. I find this odd as its more than likely that any phone  
Ref: DRN55476642number could have  been used to advise about  the timing of delivery.  This is often a way to 
alert a fraudster who made  an application about  when they could expect a delivery.  
As most signatures on delivery are now done on an electronic device, I think  its difficult to 
say a signature matched one made with a pen. But I note from RateSetters own records that 
they state signature on pod does not match the driving licence . So I dont think  that is 
convincing evidence that Mr W actually  picked up the phone.
I see RateSetter remain convinced for a couple  of reasons that Mr W took out the loan 
himself: the provision of his driving  licence and the fact Mr Ws daughter  had recently got a 
new phone.  
Im not convinced by either reason. Even  though Mr W kept his driving licence  with him at all 
times, that doesnt  mean it wouldnt be difficult to locate it and copy it to send along with any 
fraudulent application.
What surprises me is how RateSetter didnt  seem to accept Mr Ws word without any clear  
reason why hed have  taken out a loan for a mobile  phone (when he already had one). There 
is certainly nothing  to suggest  that Mr Ws daughter  took out the loan.  She may have had a 
new phone  but Mr W has told us the phone model isnt the same  as the one obtained  under 
this loan.
I can also see the phone obtained with this loan was blocked  after Mr W reported what  had 
happened to RateSetter. This suggests  to me again that Mr W didnt take out the loan. Why 
would he complain about a loan which would  lead to the blocking of a phone if hed retained  
it?
RateSetter also seem to have penalised Mr W because he was unwilling to report what had 
happened to the police.  He did report it to Action  Fraud however. Its not a requirement  to 
report fraud to the police and Im surprised RateSetter took such  a strong  view on this issue.
Its difficult to come  to any other  conclusion  than Mr W didnt take out the loan with 
RateSetter. I say this because:
The application was made with details  that werent Mr Ws;
Theres limited  evidence  Mr W received and signed for the phone;
Theres no evidence Mr W paid for a deposit  or set up the direct  debit;  and 
Mr Ws story throughout the period of this complaint has been consistent.
RateSetter will need to stop pursuing  Mr W for this loan and remove any reference  to it from 
his credit record. 
I do feel RateSetter had an opportunity  to decide that they,  along  with Mr W, had been a 
victim of fraud. This has undoubtedly caused Mr W inconvenience and this situation has 
dragged on for a while. Ill also be asking RateSetter  to pay Mr W £150  compensation for 
this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Retail Money Market Limited, 
trading as RateSetter, to:
Ref: DRN55476643Stop pursuing  Mr W for this loan which he didnt  take out;
Make sure all references  to this loan are removed from his credit  record; and
Pay £150 compensation to Mr W for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5547664