K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about how Vauxhall Finance plc handled her request  to extend her finance  
agreement with them.
 
background
In July 2016, Miss S acquired a car using  a Conditional Sale Agreement provided by 
Vauxhall. She agreed to repay the finance by 60 monthly payments of approximately  
£286.48 interest free. In March 2019, she contacted Vauxhall to explain shed had a change 
of circumstances  which meant she could no longer afford payments at the current  level. 
Miss S says Vauxhall offered to send her a number of quotes to extend  the finance  over 
different timeframes. Miss S said that following the conversation with Vauxhall she believed  
her payments would  reduce her payments  to around  £140,  so shed agreed with another  
creditor to reduce payments to £60. 
After a few days,  Miss S hadnt received the promised paperwork, so she called to chase it. 
She was told that thered be a £58 charge and shed have to pass a credit check for the 
extension to be agreed. Miss S said she felt shed be unlikely  to pass  the credit check and 
complained that shed  not been told about the charge in the first call. Vauxhall agreed  to 
waive the charge  and agreed to process  an application for the extension.
Miss S did pass the credit check and in April 2019,  Miss S received a quote offering an 
extension of 17 months with a reduced payment of around £207. The letter also said interest 
would now be applied  at 5% (10.1% APR). Miss S accepted the extension  as she says she 
felt she had no option. But she also complained to Vauxhall that she had:
Expected more  than one offer and a lower  monthly repayment.
Not been able to continue the arrangement with the other  creditor because the 
extension hadnt reduced her payment  as much as expected.  This has led to a 
default being registered against her.
Not been told interest  would  be added  to the agreement.
Vauxhall upheld  Miss Ss complaint.  They  acknowledged that theyd not told her about the 
£58 charge, the credit search  and that shed  been  told shed receive a number of quotes  to 
choose from. They also said thered been a delay in processing the extension due to a 
system error. Vauxhall waived the £58 charge as a gesture of goodwill. They explained why 
a credit check was necessary and that they could only provide  one quote  given the amount 
she had outstanding. Vauxhall said the service Miss S had received had been below what  
theyd expect and offered  £25 compensation for the inconvenience caused.  
Miss S remained unhappy with the service shed  received and the level of compensation and 
referred her complaint  to us. One of our investigators  looked  into it. She listened to the 
conversations Miss S had with Vauxhall and felt, while there were some aspects that could 
have been better, their offer to waive the £58 admin fee and pay £25 compensation was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Vauxhall accepted  our investigators opinion, but Miss S didnt.  She felt her hopes had been 
raised that her repayments would drop more significantly than they did, and she had to 
default on an arrangement she made with another creditor.  As there  was no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN51041302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has found herself in a difficult position due to circumstances beyond  her control and 
has done the right thing  by contacting her creditors  including Vauxhall   to see how they 
can help her. 
Financial businesses all have their own processes  and procedures   including  their lending 
criteria - for helping consumers in financial difficulties and I cant  change  those.  My role in 
cases such as this is to look at the actions of the business have taken to see if theyve done 
what they should and have treated the consumer fairly, taking into account the 
circumstances. If I feel the business  has made a mistake or treated  the consumer unfairly, 
Id look to return the consumer to the position they would have been  in had the mistake not 
happened, and potentially  make  an award  of compensation.  
Ive listened to the calls Miss S had with Vauxhall  during  the course of applying  for the 
extension. I think  each call handler  was empathetic  with the situation  Miss S had found  
herself in and had tried to be helpful.  She was given alternative options to extending the 
finance such as changing the car for a cheaper  one by speaking to a dealer or arranging  for 
someone else to take over the agreement. 
The terms of the agreement Miss S has with Vauxhall say that a charge of £58 would be 
payable in the event of a change being made to the agreement. Miss S accepted this when 
she entered into the Conditional Sale Agreement. But Vauxhall have accepted  that this 
wasnt brought to her attention when  she first contacted them about her financial difficulties 
so theyve agreed to waive it. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
There is also no dispute that there was no mention of the credit  check in the initial call 
Miss S had with Vauxhall. While the advisor should  have told Miss S that a check  would be 
carried out, I dont  think it affected her situation.  I think shed have gone ahead with applying 
for the extension in finance even if she had been  told about the check  in the first call. I say 
this because she was keen to try to reduce the repayments and she was made aware  a 
check was necessary before the extension  application was processed.  So I dont think  her 
situation was any different  as a result of Vauxhall not telling her about the check from the 
outset.
The application was completed and Vauxhall made  an offer to Miss S to extend the finance 
by 17 months. This reduced the payments  by approximately £70 per month.  Vauxhall  tell me 
that while they will look to extend finance agreements  where  needed, theyll only do so up to 
a maximum of 78 months. As Miss Ss agreement was scheduled to last 61 months from the 
start (the first repayment was collected  one month after the agreement  started),  a 17-month 
extension was all they could offer in the circumstances. 
Overall, I think Vauxhall have done what it could to help Miss S by extending the contract  for 
as long as they could  and suggesting changing  the car. While they could  have given more  
information about the process at the outset, I dont think Miss Ss situation  would  be any 
different had they done so. I say this because she needed to reduce the payments to the 
agreement and wanted to keep the car she had. They waived a fee that they contractually 
could have charged and have offered a further £25 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Ref: DRN51041303Its clear Miss S was seeking to reduce her payments as much  as possible, and it seems 
expected her repayment to drop to around £140. But Ive seen and heard nothing that shows  
any figures were given or suggested by Vauxhall prior to the extension  to the agreement 
being made. So I dont think it would be reasonable to hold them  responsible for problems 
shes had with other creditors.
I note too that Miss S is concerned that interest  at 5% per year will now be added to the 
agreement, where  it was interest free before the extension.  The terms on which theyre 
prepared to lend are for Vauxhall to decide. I cant interfere with that decision. The details of 
the interest payable were  clear on the offer of extension and Miss S accepted it. 
I realise this will come  as a disappointment to Miss S, but I think Vauxhalls actions of 
waiving the fee of £58 and offering a further  £25 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Id remind Vauxhall of their obligation  to treat their customers in financial 
difficulty such as Miss S fairly going forward.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5104130