complaint
Mr W complains that Advantage Insurance  Company Limited didnt offer enough for the 
repairs needed to his car when he claimed  under his car insurance policy, following an 
engine fire. He also complains that damage  was caused to the car while it was in the care of 
its agent.
background
Mr W made a claim on his car insurance  following an engine  fire. Advantage initially sent the 
car to a salvage  yard, but when it was inspected,  there was less visible  damage  than it 
expected. Advantage therefore instructed an engineer to carry out an inspection. The engineer  
concluded that, as the fire was caused  by a mechanical fault, the fault itself wouldnt be 
covered. However,  he did think  there was some  damage caused by the fire, and he assessed 
the cost of repairing this, as it was covered by the policy. He advised this would be less than 
the £250 excess. So Advantage  didnt think it was obliged to pay anything  to Mr W.
Mr W was unhappy with the engineers assessment of the cost of the repairs,  as he thought 
it would  cost a lot more than the excess.  He arranged  his own report  by a local garage and 
they quoted over £1000  for the repairs. So Mr W thought Advantage should pay this, less the 
excess. Mr W also said that when the car was delivered to the local garage for assessment, 
there was damage  that hadnt  been  there  when it was collected from him by Advantages 
agent. He said since it had been at the salvage yard mould  had developed in the interiors 
due to damp. He also said there was a dent on the boot, missing door handle covers, 
missing wind deflectors, missing registration  plates and paint on the tyres.  Mr W made a 
complaint to Advantage about  its assessment of the cost of repairs and the damage that was 
caused at the salvage  yard.
Advantage said it had passed Mr W s quote for repairs to its engineer, who had reviewed it 
and maintained that their original quote  was correct. However, Advantage accepted there  was 
damage caused at the salvage yard and asked Mr W to provide an estimate for repairs for that 
damage so it could review  it. Advantage later reimbursed Mr W for the money spent on phone  
calls. Its also gave  him £120 compensation for inconvenience caused due to poor service and 
the damage caused at the salvage  yard. Plus, £30 to replace the registration plates.
Mr W was unhappy with Advantages response. He still thought  it had incorrectly assessed 
the cost of the repairs for the damage caused by the fire. He also thought Advantage should 
fix the damage caused while the car was at the salvage yard, rather  than him providing a 
quote for it to review.  For this reason, he refused to accept delivery of the car back  to his 
house. He made a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and said he thought Advantages quote for the 
repairs was fair, so he didnt think Advantage were  obliged to pay for them, as they would 
cost less than the excess. Regarding the damage  caused at the salvage yard, he said
Advantage had now agreed to have the car assessed by qualified  engineers  while it was still 
at the salvage yard.  It would then let Mr W know the costs of repairs  and our investigator 
thought this was fair.
Ref: DRN5168064After our investigator had come to an opinion, Advantage  arranged  for its qualified engineer
to look at the damage caused at the salvage yard. It said the wind deflectors and door
handle covers were already missing when the car arrived at the salvage yard, which  is
shown in the photos taken  as part of the first report.  It also said that the damage caused  to
the interiors from damp was due to condensation, which was already a problem before the
car arrived, so it didnt think it was responsible for this. It accepted that the salvage yard was
responsible for the removal of the registration  plates and the dent on the boot. The engineer
concluded that the damage could be repaired for around £160.
Mr W disagreed  with Advantages engineers  report,  as he thought it hadnt allowed enough
for the work  required  to correct the damage. He was also unhappy that Advantage was no
longer accepting liability for all of the damage  he said happened at the salvage yard. He
asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 August 2019, In it I said the following:
my provisional findings
To consider the complaint, I have split it into two parts. Firstly,  I will consider whether
Advantages original  assessment of the damage caused  by the engine fire was fair and
reasonable. I will then consider  whether  Advantage has acted reasonably in assessing the
damage caused while the car was at the salvage  yard. And then Ive considered what
Advantage needs to do to put things right.
Damage caused by the engine fire
When Mr W originally  made the claim,  Advantage  confirmed the fire was due to a
mechanical fault, so any repairs  relating to the cause wouldnt  be covered under the policy.
I can see in the policy,  under  the section relating to damage or loss by fire or theft, that
Failures,  breakdowns or breakage  of mechanical,  electrical, electronic or computer
equipment will not be covered. So I agree this exclusion does  apply and only the damage
caused as a result of the fire is covered under  the policy.
Advantage and Mr W have both provided reports including quotes for the cost of the repairs
covered under the policy. Advantages report says the cost to repair  the fire damage would
be around £230. However,  it also states that the cost of the repairs is subject to undisclosed 
damage. So this suggests to me they think there  may be damage that it isnt possible to
identify without taking  the car apart  or starting the repairs.  Therefore, the cost to repair  the
damage may be higher than their current assessment, but they wouldnt know until the
repairing garage started work on it. Mr W has said this was also mentioned by the garage
that provided his report. I therefore  think that it isnt possible to know for certain that the
amount the engineers allowed for repairs accurately  reflects how much  it would actually  cost
to fix the fire damage. So, I dont think its fair for Advantage to say Mr W cant  make  a claim
because the cost of repairs  is less than the policy excess.
Damage caused while the vehicle was at the salvage yard
Advantage has accepted that the vehicles registration plates were removed, and a dent to
the boot was caused, while the car was at the salvage yard. However, it says the other
damage Mr W said was caused at the salvage yard was present before it arrived.
Ref: DRN5168064Advantage say the wind deflectors and door handle  covers were missing  before the car
arrived at the salvage  yard. It said it knows this because these parts are missing in the
photos taken for the initial report written by the salvage yard.  Ive looked at these photos and
I can see that the wind deflectors and door handle covers are missing. However, in these
photos the registration plates have also been removed. Advantage has accepted that the
registration plates  were removed at the salvage yard.  I therefore  dont  think  it can rely on the
photos to say the door handle covers  and wind deflectors were missing when the car arrived.
If the salvage yard removed the registration plates before the photos were  taken,  I cant  be
certain that they didnt also remove other  parts of the car. Mr W has also provided the report
from the initial inspection  of the car at the salvage  yard. This doesnt list any missing parts.
I also think it is important to consider the fact the car was initially  delivered  to a salvage  yard.  
This indicates that at first, Advantage  thought the vehicle  would  be written off. I have also seen 
the letter Mr W received that explains this was the case. I think this means when the car was 
received, its likely it wasnt treated with the care that it would have done had it been delivered 
to a garage for repairs. This is demonstrated  by the fact that the registration plates were 
removed before the photos were taken.  This wouldnt  have happened  if it was thought the car 
would be repaired.  Based on this it seems likely that other parts  of the car could have been 
removed at the same time. I therefore  think  that its most likely the wind deflectors and door 
handle covers were also removed at the salvage yard.  This lack of care, may also explain the 
paint marks on the tyres.  So I think its likely this damage was caused  while  the car was at the 
salvage yard and therefore Advantage should be responsible for putting  it right.
I also need to consider  the damp that has caused mould in the cars interiors.  Advantage has
said the damp was caused by condensation  that was present in the car when it arrived  at the
salvage yard. In the report carried out by the qualified engineer, it says: We would bring to
your attention that the inside of the vehicle is full of condensation due to the recent weather
conditions as water has dripped from the screens  and gathered on the dash panels and
interior seats. However, this report is dated 21 December  2017. The first report  from the
salvage yard is dated 7 December 2017.  This means the car had been at the salvage  yard
for at least two weeks before the second report was written.  As the engine  fire occurred on
31 November, it could  have been  longer than that. So there  would have been a chance for
the condensation to develop while it was at the salvage yard, before the report was written.
I have considered how the condensation may have occurred. Condensation occurs  when
warm moisture meets a cold surface.  This happens  where there is moisture  already present 
in a car. Usually this will be from the warm breath of a passenger  on a cold day. Advantage
said it was due to the cold weather. However, the amount of condensation  described 
enough to make the seats damp  suggests  there was more  moisture  than normal  present in
the car to start with. I dont think this could be explained by the winter weather alone.
I have already decided its likely care wasnt taken in the handling of the car at the salvage
yard. I therefore think it is possible  that the windows  were left open  at some point during this
initial stage.  This would mean there  would be an opportunity  for rain to get into the vehicle,
meaning there would  be considerably more water  in the car than usual. I think  this would
better explain the level of condensation described in the report  carried  out on the 21 
December. I therefore  think  it is most  likely the damp was caused while the car was at the
salvage yard. So Advantage should  be responsible for putting this right as well.
Ref: DRN5168064Putting things  right
For the reasons  I have  outlined, I dont think its possible  to estimate an accurate cost to
repair the damage caused by the fire without starting the repairs. I therefore dont think  its
fair for Advantage  to say Mr W cant make  a claim on the basis the repairs would cost less
than the excess.  Further,  I think Advantage is responsible for the damage Mr W has said
was caused at the salvage yard; so is responsible for putting this right.
Ive considered the fairest way for Advantage to put things right for Mr W. Looking  at Mr Ws
estimate for the repairing  the damage  caused at the salvage yard, in total this comes  to
around £1000.  On top of this, there  is also the cost of repairing the damage caused  by the
engine fire. Advantage has calculated this would cost around £230,  but I have already
decided I think it is likely  this figure would be higher due to damage that isnt visible without
starting the repairs. So, although  it isnt possible to calculate the exact cost of repairs, they
will cost at least £1230.
I have looked  at the pre-fire retail market value  of the car based  on industry guides and the
average of the three guides  is £1802. Based on this I think  the fairest way for Advantage to
put things right is to write off the vehicle and settle the claim based on this valuation, less the
excess.
I have also considered the distress and inconvenience that Advantage has caused  Mr W.
The claim has taken a long time to settle  and has taken longer due to the extra  damage
caused at the salvage  yard.  Further to this, Advantage  has been reluctant to assess this
damage, which has caused further  delays. Mr W has also said he had to continue paying
finance on the car while the claim was being  handled, which would have caused him further
distress and inconvenience that he wouldnt have  experienced  if the claim hadnt  been so
delayed. Advantage has already offered Mr W £120  in compensation and an extra £30 for
registration plates,  which will no longer be required, as the car is to be written off. So this can
now just be part of the compensation for distress and inconvenience.  Due to the level of
distress and inconvenience Advantage have caused  Mr W and based on other  cases
wheres the customer has experienced a similar  level of distress and inconvenience, I think
Advantage should pay Mr W £300  in total in compensation  for distress and inconvenience,
including any payments already made.
response to my provisional  decision
Advantage responded to my provisional  decision to say it had nothing further to add and 
accepted the suggested  outcome.
Mr W didnt accept the decision. He said that he had continued to pay finance since the 
accident. He provided  evidence  that he had purchased GAP insurance  as part of that 
agreement. And therefore, had the car been  written off at the time of the claim, he wouldnt 
have had to pay the extra finance as it would be covered under the policy. The amount of 
finance paid and still due exceeded  the settlement I suggested. So Mr W said it wasnt a fair 
outcome as he would  still be out of pocket, compared to where he would have been if the car 
had been written off at the time of the accident.
Ref: DRN5168064my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence provided by Mr W, I can see that he continued to pay finance 
on the vehicle  after the claim. If Advantage had written off the vehicle at that time of the 
claim, it would have paid the settlement to the company providing finance. Im satisfied from 
whats been provided that Mr Ws GAP insurance  policy would have covered the remaining 
amount due on his finance agreement if Advantage had written  his car off originally  as it 
should have done. So he wouldnt have been  required  to pay anything further. 
In order to calculate the amount of finance Mr W would have paid, I need to consider  when  
Advantage should have  reasonably written off the vehicle. When  it originally  assessed  the 
car, Advantage said that the damage  it could  find would  cost around £230  to repair. However 
the report its engineer  produced said that this is subject to undisclosed damage. As an 
engine fire would be likely to cause quite significant  damage to a vehicle,  I think its likely 
that there  would be more  damage that would only be discovered once repairs had begun.  
Further, the damage caused at the salvage yard in the second part of December left the car 
with damage which  would  cost £1000 to repair. As I valued the car at around  £1800,  at the 
point this damage was caused, I believe the car was no longer economically viable to repair. 
So it should  have been written off in December 2017.
 
This means  his final payment towards  the finance  agreement should have been in 
December 2017,  as the car should  have been written off before Mr W made the next 
payment in January 2018. At this point  Mr W had paid £2800.16 of the £6268.44  owed. This 
means there  was £3468.28 remaining, that Mr W wouldnt have had to pay if his car had 
been written off at this point. Therefore, I will require Advantage to pay Mr W £3468.28  to put 
him back in the position he would have been  in if the car had been written off at the time. 
This doesnt include late payment fees that Mr W has incurred since,  as he is liable to pay 
for those.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Advantage have now paid Mr W the £3468.28 as 
outlined above.  However, As Mr W has been  making monthly payments to the finance since 
the accident, Advantage should also pay 8% interest  on each of the finance repayments 
from the date Mr W paid each on to the date it paid what  Ive awarded. This is to 
compensate him for not having that money  during the time it has taken to pay and 
appropriate amount.  I appreciate Mr W could carry on paying the finance payments until the 
agreement ends, but I dont think Advantage should  have  to pay interest beyond  the date it 
paid the settlement amount I eventually  suggested. 
Further to this, for the reasons I outlined in my provisional decision, Advantage should  pay 
Mr W £300 compensation to make  up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
Advantage have  now also paid the compensation to Mr W, so I dont require it to pay any 
further compensation.
Ref: DRN5168064my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on each  of the finance repayments from the date 
Mr W paid each on to the date it paid the £3,468.28 I suggested.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
1 If Advantage Insurance  Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5168064