K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains Simply  Insurance Services Limited  cancelled his commercial motor  
insurance policy without  telling him.
background
Mr G is in the motor trade and in September 2018 he applied  for a commercial  motor 
insurance policy through Simply financing the cost with a credit agreement. At the time Mr G 
hadnt updated his driving licence since he moved to his current address. But he says he 
was told this didnt  matter as far as the insurance  was concerned.  
Mr G says a month after inception the policy  was cancelled without warning. He believes as 
a result hes lost his no claims discount  and his insurance is now more expensive.  So he 
complained. Simply said its records dont  show the driving licence issue  was discussed  at 
inception. But if it had been Mr G would have been told to ensure it was updated within  the 
30 day validation period. Mr G took out the policy on 6 September but didnt send his licence 
off until 20 September,  and he didnt call back on 6 October to ask for an extension.  Simply  
say Mr G was told the policy would be cancelled and he signed  for a recorded delivery letter 
confirming this. Simply said the finance provider had taken the wrong premium, but the 
overpayment of just over £130  had been refunded to him in October. And he hasnt  lost his 
no claims bonus. It just hasnt increased because the policy was in place for less than a 
year. Mr G still wasnt satisfied so he complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Simply had explained  to Mr G on 
several occasions what he needed to do. And he could see Mr G was told if his licence 
wasnt received by 6 October to phone Simply for an extension.  Mr G said he wasnt  told 
that, so the person talking  to the business must  be someone impersonating him.
As agreement couldnt be reached its come to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
Simply is an intermediary specialising in the motor trade. It finds suitable policies for 
customers - it doesnt provide the insurance  policies itself. When  setting up policies it has to 
follow the new business processes set out by each insurer, which it doesnt have discretion 
to waive, or amend. 
Ive listened to all the calls Ive been  given relating to the setting up and subsequent 
cancellation of this policy. There are 35 in total,  although some  were abortive calls, or where  
Mr G is held in the queue without speaking to anyone. In each case  where Mr G speaks to 
an advisor they ask him security questions (address  and post code, date of birth etc.). And 
its clear hes a busy person juggling his repair and driving instructor  jobs, and often calling  
or being called  when  its not an ideal time to talk. 
Mr G had several conversations with sales person  T about taking out a motor  trade policy  
prior to it being set up. Mr G says he wasnt in a rush to take out a new policy  as he had one 
through his employment as a driving  instructor.  But he wanted  a motor trade policy to insure 
Ref: DRN55205472his car and van which he used for his repair business. So he asked T about how many cars 
it would  cover, whether he could include his 3.5 ton van, the deposit  and monthly payments, 
and what documents  hed need to provide. 
Mr G is sure he disclosed in one of the first calls with T that his driving licence still showed 
his previous address, and T said that wasnt a problem. I did hear Mr G mention this in the 
last of three  calls on 28 August. But I dont agree T said this would be no problem. I dont 
think he registered what Mr G had said, as he was concentrating on working  out the quote. 
Throughout the conversations T uses phrases such as no problem,  no worries perfect 
and yeah. In my opinion these are verbal nods  rather than responses to questions. But I 
can see how Mr G may have interpreted Ts response in that way. The calls are often rushed 
so I dont think the parties listened  carefully to each other, or always  completely understood 
each other.  Mr G also thought thered been  a conversation on 1 September  where the 
license issue was discussed and T said he would  speak  to his manager.  But theres no 
record of a call on 1 September,  so on balance I dont think  there was a call on that day. 
Mr G may have  got the impression from the 28 August  call it didnt  matter  to Simply that his 
licence wasnt updated. Mr G says he didnt do that as he and his wife had been ill and then 
they went abroad. And he may have assumed hed been asked to provide  a utility or council 
tax bill in lieu of the updated  licence.  But proof  of residential address is required before the 
policy can be set up according  to the insurers new business procedure  which Simply must 
follow. Thats why inception was delayed from 5 to 6 September as Mr G was having 
difficulty sending a copy of the bill to T. 
The other documents could be provided  within 30 days of the policy starting.  Mr G was 
frustrated Simply kept asking him for more information. The main  requirements were 
included in the welcome letter Simply sent Mr G on 7 September. He acknowledged 
receiving this when  Simply made a courtesy call to him on 10 September. The letter  lists in 
bold the requirements  (evidence of three  years motor trade no claims bonus and a copy  of 
the driving licence  and summary for each named driver). Mr G was also asked to provide 
proof of his motor trade business as he has no online presence. Mr G sent everything Simply 
needed by 13 September,  except the updated  licence. 
The welcome letter explains the importance of the driving licence showing the correct  
address. It states in bold Please note the address on your drivers  licence(s)  should be as 
that declared, if this is not the case you will need to apply for an updated licence  with the 
DVLA on receipt of this letter as your insurer will require a copy  of your updated licence. 
Then in bold red type under a heading  And thats  a fact it warns that failure to do this could 
result in the premium  being increased  or the policy being cancelled. And in larger type it 
says Please DO NOT ignore this request. If problems are experienced it suggests letting 
Simply know as soon as possible. 
But Mr G didnt apply for an updated  licence until 20 September, when Simply chased him. 
And he only sent Simply a proof of recorded  delivery postage, not the DVLA receipt  to show  
it had received his change  of address application. Although submitting the required 
documentary proof  was Mr Gs responsibility,  Simply did ring Mr G several times to chase 
the information up. It also identified a problem with the no claims bonus due to the gap 
between his old policy and the new one. This was in addition to the discrepancy  identified at 
the outset when Mr G said his last accident  claim was in 2014  and it was actually 2016, 
which reduced the no claims bonus period  to three  years. 
Ref: DRN55205473I can see how the 20 September call may have made Mr G think  showing Simply hed 
applied for a new licence was enough.  But the welcome letter  told him hed need to provide 
the updated licence. And more importantly it was made clear  in subsequent calls,  as well as 
what to do if the licence wasnt back by 6 October.  So even if I accepted Simply gave him 
the impression  in a couple of calls that he didnt need to update the licence, I think  it did 
enough in later calls to make up for it. Mr G admits the DVLA had to return the form to him 
due to a missing signature. I think its likely the updated licence  would have been  issued  in 
good time if the paperwork had been  in order. 
Mr G is adamant he didnt ring Simply to cancel  the policy,  and thats right. But he did speak 
to Simply on 28 September after receiving a text about the risk of cancellation. I think  with 
the passage of time, Mr G has confused the content  of two calls which happened five days 
apart. In this call Mr G wants  to know how he can stop the policy  being cancelled.  The agent  
says she can see he provided  a receipt  (meaning  the recorded delivery proof), but they need 
the actual licence. Hes told if the updated  licence hasnt come  by 6 October  to ring as they 
can ask the insurer  for an extension to prevent cancellation. Simply  also says they sent a 
recorded delivery letter which Mr G signed for. The Royal Mail delivery receipt suggests the 
letter was collected  and signed  for on 3 October, and the signature looks  similar  to the one 
on the form Mr G signed  to bring his complaint to this service.  So he may not have seen  the 
letter on 28 September, but he did have  it before the cancellation date. And even without 
that letter, Im satisfied Mr G knew on 28 September that if his new licence wasnt received 
by 6 October  he was at risk of the policy being  cancelled unless he phoned to ask for more 
time. Im satisfied its most likely it was Mr G who spoke  to Simply on 28 September and not 
someone impersonating him. The agent asked security questions  which  were  answered 
correctly. And the voice sounds indistinguishable in that call to the other calls I listened  to 
which Mr G isnt disputing were him. 
The other call took place on 3 October, a Wednesday. Mr G spoke to another  agent at 
Simply because too much  money  had been  taken from his account by the credit provider on 
1 October. The agent explained its not Simplys  error, they set up the policy correctly with a 
start date of 6/9 (6 September).But the credit  provider transposed the digits  to 9/6 (9 June), 
giving the impression three  payments  were  needed  to bring the policy up to date. The agent 
says it will be sorted  out on Monday and then it will take five to seven working  days  for the 
refund of two payments to reach  his account.  
Mr G remembers  this call as he was worried about  buying petrol for his van, and feels  its 
unfair hes being affected by an error  which wasnt his fault. He thought the refund would be 
done straight away, so he called back three days later to complain. But the call recording 
shows he was actually  told the refund would be processed on Monday (three  working days  
after the call), and would take a further few days to reach his account.  I think this 
demonstrates Mr G remembers the call taking place, but doesnt have an accurate 
recollection of what was actually said or when it was. The refund was processed  to his 
account on 9 October  which is within the timescale.  But anyway this issue  is coincidental  to 
the cancellation of the policy. 
To try and prevent the cancellation, Simply tried to ring Mr G on 6 October without success.  
And I can see Mr G attempted one call around midday but gave up after being  held in the 
queue. I appreciate this was inconvenient and its difficult for Mr G to find time to make 
phone calls during  a working  day, Im satisfied  he was told to call Simply on or before 
6 October, to request  an extension if his updated licence wasnt received. Had he done  so, 
its unlikely the policy would have been cancelled.
Ref: DRN55205474The DVLA  requires drivers to update their licence as soon as they move.  I think Mr G was 
clearly told what he needed  to provide, including a licence showing the correct address, and 
was given adequate time and support to do so. As he didnt have his updated  licence on 
6 October, and hadnt requested an extension I cant say Simply acted unfairly.
Unfortunately for Mr G, it appears hes still bound by the credit agreement and I understand 
his concerns about the implications of having a policy cancelled. Hes also concerned that 
his motor trade no claims bonus was reduced to three years due to the accident claim in 
2016, and that he may be affected  by the gap between the policies. But I cant  hold Simply 
responsible for any of this. Mr G has said he intends  taking legal action against Simply.  If he 
doesnt accept  our decision this course  of action is still open to him.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5520547