K820x#14Complaint
Miss M, who is represented by her mother,  Ms H complains that Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited (SMF) refused  to let her reject  a faulty  car.
Background
In July 2018 Miss M acquired a second  hand car costing £4,690  funded by a hire purchase 
agreement. It was some seven years old and had done some 59,600 miles. In October  
Miss M had a problem  with the brakes  and was unable to contact the dealer which had sold 
her car. It seems  they had ceased  to trade.  She had the brakes repaired and later in the year 
she noticed the car using a lot of oil and in January she took the car to a garage which 
concluded it needed a new engine.
She contacted SMF  who accepted the onus was on it to demonstrate the car wasnt  faulty at 
the point of sale. It commissioned an independent  report. The inspector was only able to 
drive the car for two miles before it went into limp mode. The inspector noted there was 
smoke when the car was started and considered that in the light of the passage  of time and 
the mileage covered by Miss M that the fault would not have  been  present at the point of 
sale.
SMF rejected Miss Ms request and so Ms H arranged second inspection  by a different  
inspector. This was carried out on 1 April 2019. The car had done 65,269 miles at this point. 
The car was driven  for four miles before the engine began to misfire. The inspector was 
given a copy of a report which showed the engine compression ratios were  low and he 
thought the problem could  lie with one or more  of the coil packs. He concluded that the fault 
was a wear and tear issue and the car had been road legal and fit for purpose at the point of 
sale. He said this was supported by the fact it passed a MOT  test at that time.
Ms H brought her daughters complaint  to this service. It was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Ms H said that the sales  invoice showed  
the car as having done 59,000, but this was some 600 short of the actual mileage. She also 
suggested that the cars log book wasnt accurate. Our adjudicator  reviewed all the evidence 
and concluded  that he couldnt say the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale.  Two 
separate inspectors had looked  at the car and both had reached the same conclusion on 
that point.
He also covered the Ms Hs concerns with regard to the cars service  history which  she 
thought had been tampered with, compared  to the MOT. He agreed that the recorded 
mileage differed slightly on the service and the MOT  documents, but he didnt consider it to 
be uncommon for them to vary slightly.
Ms H didnt agree and said the inspectors hadnt  taken it seriously and the adjudicator hadnt 
approached it logically.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56971432In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
SMF is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I can understand Miss Ms concerns and her disappointment that her car developed a 
significant fault within six months of acquisition. But that doesnt  necessarily  means that the 
fault was present when she acquired it. It was relatively old and had quite a few miles on the 
clock, but not an excessive  amount.  However, cars do suffer  from wear  and tear and it is to 
be expected that as they age they can suffer faults.
It is difficult for me to conclude the fault was present at the point of sale when Miss M was 
able to drive it for over 5,000  miles, it passed its MOT  just before being sold and two 
independent inspectors have advised the fault was unlikely to have been present when the 
car was acquired. None  of this evidence points  to the car having an inherent fault when she 
acquired it.
Normally I would expect one independent  report, but in this complaint we have two and while 
they dont agree on every detail they both reach  the same broad conclusion. Both inspectors 
have driven the car. Albeit not for as long as they would wish and both have had the 
opportunity to inspect  it. They are experts  in their field and I find it difficult to say they were 
both wrong and to reach a different conclusion. 
Ref: DRN56971433I have noted the concerns Ms H has expressed  about the logbook  and the MOT,  but in the 
absence of strong evidence to show  they were wrong I cannot uphold the complaint on this 
alone. I appreciate  that the sales invoice  uses  a round figure  for the mileage, but it seems 
that the cars odometer was accurate and Miss M would have had the opportunity to check 
the mileage before buying the car. Furthermore,  the 600 mile difference between the two 
figures is not significant and doesnt point to mis-selling. I recognise Miss M and Ms H will be 
disappointed by my decision, but I do not consider  I can uphold  this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision 
before 14 June 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5697143