K820x#14complaint
Ms D has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt make her aware  
that she wouldnt be able to use her credit  card after a block  was placed  on her account  after 
shed made  an arrangement to pay outstanding arrears.
Ms D has also complained about  the general  customer service  provided by Halifax and the 
time that shes had to spend on the phone trying to resolve the issue. Ms D wants  the 
outstanding balance cleared, have the use of her credit card and £500 compensation. 
background
Ms D fell behind with repayments on her credit card account. She arranged a repayment  
plan with Halifax but was unable to keep up with it. 
Ms D says she was told that interest on her card would be frozen  for three months and that 
shed still be able to use her card once  she cleared  her arrears. Ms D let Halifax know  that 
due to her personal  circumstances  she would be unable to keep up with her repayments. 
Ms D says she then made a payment but was still unable to use the card.
Halifax has said that as a responsible lender they dont allow customers  to increase their 
outstanding debt when theyve advised them they are unable to meet their existing 
commitments. 
Ms D complained to Halifax  but was unhappy with their response so she referred her 
complaint to our Service. In their final response  letter, Halifax  suggested that as the 
relationship between both parties  appeared to have broken down, Ms D should consider 
seeking an alternative banking provider. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms Ds complaint. They found that Halifax placed a block on 
the account to prevent Ms D building up any more debt on the account. They also found no 
evidence of the poor customer  service that Ms D alleges. 
Ms D didnt accept our investigators findings.  In particular shes  said that she did pay her 
arrears but the blocks remained  on her account.  The complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of Ms Ds personal circumstances and everything shes told us and 
Halifax that shes experienced. 
Ive carefully considered  everything that happened when coming to my decision. Its not in 
dispute that Ms D spent  a fair amount  of time on the phone  when  trying  to resolve her 
complaint. Some of the call recordings between Ms D and Halifax  are available and others 
arent. Ive also considered call notes  completed  following Ms Ds calls with Halifax.
Ref: DRN56378612Theres some disagreement over what happened when Ms D contacted Halifax to let them 
know of her financial situation. Ms D says that Halifax reapplied blocks  after it said they 
would be removed. Having carefully considered everything, I think that Ms D was given 
incorrect information about the blocks and what was happening with her account at the end 
of 2018. This caused Ms D to have to make a lot of unnecessary calls to Halifax.
From January 2019 I think that Halifax did then make it clear to Ms D that shed need to 
clear her arrears before any blocks would be lifted.  Ms D has told us that she has paid her 
arrears. But I havent  seen any supporting evidence that she has paid them. Ms Ds account 
statements also dont support that shes paid the arrears. 
The terms and conditions  of Ms Ds credit card, in summary,  state that Halifax  may limit use 
of the card if, as a responsible lender they think that theres a risk of the customer  not 
repaying what is owed  on the account. The terms also state that Halifax doesnt have to give 
notice before applying a block.
Having carefully considered everything, although  Ms D doesnt  agree, I think  that Halifax  
have acted fairly when  placing the restrictions on her credit card account. It would have been 
irresponsible to continue  to increase Ms Ds arrears when it was clear that she was 
struggling to make her repayments. 
Ive also noted  that Halifax  took a number of positive  steps  such  as:
An informal payment  arrangement plan which Ms D didnt keep to;
Placed a hold on collections activity for periods of time;
Refunding some  fees on her account such as an over limit charge,  withdrawal  fees 
and some interest; and 
Offered to have  their customer priority team review and manage her account.  
Whilst I accept  that Ms D may have had to wait for periods  of time whilst on the phone, from 
listening to the available  calls its clear that Ms D was often on hold when Halifax  were 
communicating internally  across different departments to try and answer Ms Ds queries. 
I appreciate that this must  have been very frustrating for Ms D, but I think Halifax  were trying 
to help her. 
Ms D spent a considerable amount of time on the phone and Ive also noted what shes  said 
about not being called back  when agreed. It does seem that there were some delays in Ms D 
being called  back  but attempts were  made  according to Halifaxs  records.  
Ms D also had to repeat  her very sensitive personal  circumstances to a number of different 
Halifax advisers on a number of different occasions.  A note was added  to Halifaxs system  in 
early December 2018 acknowledging that Ms D didnt want  to have to repeat this information 
each time she spoke to Halifax  and they did make an award for distress  and inconvenience  
caused. Although  Halifax  should  have taken these steps at an earlier  stage Im satisfied its 
now compensated her for its mistake appropriately. 
Overall, although the communication  from Halifax around what exactly was happening,  why 
it was happening and when it was happening  with the account  could  have been  much 
clearer, l do feel that theyve acted fairly when taking action to block the account  for the 
reasons Ive already explained.   
Ref: DRN56378613Halifax has paid £200 to Ms D for the poor communication and customer  service it provided. 
I think thats a fair amount  and dont award  any further compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5637861