K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that, after he agreed  to pay £500  per month into his existing  self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP)  the contributions remained in cash instead of being invested. He 
also complains that during  this time an ongoing adviser charge was deducted from the 
contributions which  negatively affected the value of the fund.  He says he never  received any 
paperwork during  this time, so he was unaware of the issue until he received a letter which  
explained it in 2018. 
Mr H would like compensation  for the loss of investment  growth and a refund of the ongoing  
charges.
background
Mr H is a director of an engineering firm that, in 2013,  wanted  to purchase a commercial 
property for the business to trade from  as the rent on its current  premises had become 
unaffordable. So, Mr H, along with the other two directors  of the company, met with an 
adviser from J & P Financial Services Limited, (J & P Financial)  part of Quilter  Financial 
Limited at the time, to discuss the options available. It was agreed all the directors  would 
transfer their existing personal pensions into SIPPs which they would then use to buy the 
commercial premises. Mr Hs plan was valued at £56,95932. The initial charge for the 
transfer was 3% of the fund.
A longer-term plan involved Mr H and one of the directors owning more of the premises,  to 
equalise their shares and have sufficient liquid assets to buy out the other director  in the 
event of him passing  away. The purchase of the commercial property hadnt  completed 
when sadly the other  director  did pass away, but his other son used his pension  in the same 
way to ensure  the purchase could  complete  by June 2014. 
By April 2015 the rent from the property ensured  the value of Mr Hs SIPP had risen to 
£63,823.13. At a review meeting in June  2015 it was established that Mr H and one of the 
directors wanted to buy out the other  director at some point in the future. As a result, they 
agreed to make contributions of £500 per month  from the business,  to work towards the 
buyout. It was agreed that they would  review the payments  each year but did not want 
these funds to fall in value.
In a meeting during 2016 Mr H and the other director said they didnt want  to change their 
regular contribution amounts, but they did agree to recommendations for business protection 
and keyman insurance  policies. In July 2016  Mr Hs SIPP was valued  at £76,158.26.
However, in September 2018 Mr H complained about the advice hed received in 2015.  He 
made the following complaint points:
He hadnt  been made  aware  that his monthly contributions would incur an adviser 
charge, which  increased as the value of the bank account the contributions  were  paid 
into also increased. 
Hed asked J & P Financial if the monthly contributions were gaining interest and 
was told they were.  However,  the SIPP provider confirmed that they werent.
He was only made aware  of a setting up (initial) charge when he agreed  to make 
monthly contributions   not an ongoing  charge.
Ref: DRN58628692He wasnt provided with any paperwork which set out the fees and he didnt  receive 
any annual statements either. 
He wasnt made  aware  that the rental payments from the property would be invested 
in cash.
The beneficiaries  to his plan had never  been  updated and his change of address  
hadnt been updated either. 
He hadnt  ever been advised to invest his funds  or told that he could  invest online 
directly with the SIPP provider.
The monthly charge  also covered financial advice and he felt he hadnt received  any 
advice or at best it had been poor.
J & P Financial responded making the following points:
Mr H had been a client  since 2013  and J & P Financial  had confirmed all the SIPP 
and advice charges  that would be applied at that point.  The charges were based  on a 
percentage of the SIPP value  which is why they would  have varied over the years. 
This value was the sum of the employer contributions, the rental  income and the 
value of the property.
The ongoing and initial charges were  set out in J & P Financials reports  and also 
within the SIPP providers  illustration from the time and its ongoing annual  
statements. 
It had always been Mr H and another directors intention  to buy out the third director. 
In order to do that they had been  clear  that they didnt want the value of the SIPP to 
fall in case this affected their ability to purchase  the other share  when the time came. 
It apologised for the issues  around  not changing Mr Hs address and beneficiaries. 
Although there was online  access to the SIPP, this wasnt discussed further as J & P 
Financial had concluded that the funds should remain in cash until the remaining 
share in the property  was purchased. Therefore, it didnt feel the online facility was 
relevant.
It was sorry  Mr H had decided  to stop using its services. As a gesture of goodwill, it 
offered to refund the adviser fees it charged for the three years when no review  
meetings took place.  It also offered  a further  £250  for any inconvenience  caused 
which meant it offered  to pay Mr H £2,450 in total.
Mr H said he hadnt received any paperwork following the establishment of the SIPP or the 
agreement to make contributions  so he wasnt aware the money had remained in cash. 
He assumed it was being invested  according  to his agreed attitude to risk. He didnt accept 
the offer of compensation. 
J & P Financial said it had provided reports and letters to Mr H when it set up the SIPP and 
when it recommended the additional payments in 2015. It said it had confirmed the 
availability of online access to the SIPP in its reports, but explained that the annual 
statements were sent directly by the provider. 
It also reiterated that it thought its advice relating to the purchase of the property and the 
subsequent contribution increase was suitable  and restated  its previous  offer of settlement.  
Mr H brought his, and his fellow  directors  complaint  which is being considered separately, 
to us. One of our investigators looked  into the matter and felt the complaint should  be 
upheld. He thought that, on balance, there  was an agreement to keep the money invested in 
Ref: DRN58628693cash. But he then considered that advice more broadly  and thought that J & P Financial 
should have made a recommendation for Mr H to invest his contributions and the rental 
income, as he thought  the projections showed  it would have taken at least  five years  to build 
up the capital  required to buy out the other directors  share  of the property.  
J & P Financial didnt agree. It said that Mr H was fully aware  of the agreed strategy to leave 
the money in cash because he was so concerned about buying the property that he didnt 
want to risk stock market fluctuations. It said Mr H had been made aware each year  
through the updates and statements he received from both J & P Financial  and the SIPP 
provider, that the money remained in cash. So, J & P Financial thought the onus should  
have been on Mr H to contact it, if he wanted  to change the agreed investment strategy. 
J & P Financial also disputed that it confirmed to Mr H leaving the money  in cash  was an 
error. It said Mr H had said he was looking to increase his contributions where affordable   
so his objective might have been  achieved sooner than the time frame the investigator had 
put forward. It asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman, so it was passed to 
me to review. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said, in summary,  that I agreed with the investigators view that 
the complaint  should be upheld  but with a slightly different  method  of calculating the 
redress. I made the following points in support of my findings.
Based  on the available evidence  I thought  it was likely that Mr H had been made 
aware that his monthly contributions were going  to be held in cash.
But Id then reviewed  the suitability of J & P Financials overall advice.
Mr Hs longer term strategy meant hed require at least five years to have sufficient 
funds to purchase the remaining share in the commercial property. With the price of 
the property likely to increase  over that time  and the associated  costs likely to 
increase, it would probably require more capital to achieve his objective.
So, it would seem reasonable, especially  as J & P Financial  would have been able to 
work out how long it would take to achieve  the strategy, that it should have advised 
Mr H to invest his contributions in line with his moderate attitude to risk.
It had been  suggested that Mr H would  review his contributions  at the end of each 
financial year. But he was unable to increase the premiums in 2016  and 2017 which  
would suggest  that investing the contributions  in 2015,  and reassessing the position 
each year at an annual review would have  been a more  suitable solution. I also 
thought the rental  income Mr H received ought to have been invested  as it was likely 
to have remained invested for at least the five year period required to build  up 
enough capital  to buy out the remaining share.
I thought J & P Financial had done enough to make Mr H aware of the providers 
online facility.
J & P Financial should compensate Mr H for the loss of any investment growth on his 
funds, from the date of the transfer  to the SIPP until the date it was removed as his 
adviser. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr H accepted the decision.   
Ref: DRN58628694Initially J & P Financial  didnt agree with my decision. It said it thought  Id adopted  too much 
of a hindsight approach. It said Mr H was only ever interested  in having the further  
contributions invested in cash, to ensure there was no loss to the pension  fund when it came 
to buying out the remaining share  of the commercial premises. It thought  it was unfair for 
Mr H to now change his mind and want growth  on his funds instead  of security. However,  it 
did agree  to carry out the calculation, although  it raised a number of questions about  how to 
obtain the information required  to complete  it. 
But then J & P Financial  advised us that it hadnt  been a separate  regulated entity at the time 
of the advice and had been an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Limited until 
November 2015.  So it said the complaint should  be considered  against  that firm instead. 
Following further investigation,  I accepted that J & P Financial was part of Quilter  Financial  
Limited at the time of the advice, and Quilter  Financial Limited also accepted responsibility 
for the advice. It said it would carry out the calculation I had previously recommended  when 
a final decision was issued, and which Mr H accepted.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason  to depart 
from them. I think Mr H had been made aware that his contributions would be held in cash,  
but I dont that was suitable advice. Because of the length of time it would have taken to 
build up the capital required to achieve  Mr Hs objective of buying the other share  in the 
commercial premises, I think  he should have been  advised to invest  the contributions  and 
rental income - in line with his moderate attitude  to risk.  
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Hs circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
What should Quilter do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr Hs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Quilter should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Quilter  should pay into Mr Hs pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
 
Ref: DRN58628695If Quilter  is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Hs pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Hs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr H £250 for the disruption to his retirement planning. J & P Financial  offered 
to refund Mr H some  ongoing adviser charges for the years it didnt review his SIPP.  I 
think the formula Ive set out below makes allowance for the ongoing adviser  fees
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. Quilter should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of the 
transfer into 
the SIPP.The date that 
J & P 
Financial  
were 
removed as 
Mr Hs 
adviser (but 
any loss at 
this point 
should be 
brought  up to 
date using a 
percentage  of 
loss applied 
to the current 
value of the 
funds.)8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN58628696To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Quilter should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should  be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded  basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Hs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr H into that position.  It does not mean that Mr H would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Quilter  Financial Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Quilter Financial Limited should provide  details  of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 May 2021.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5862869