K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Santander UK Plc wouldnt allow them  to take out a second 
charge on their property  thats mortgaged with Santander.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a Flexible Plus mortgage  in 2008 on the advice of an independent 
financial adviser (IFA).
In 2019 Mr and Mrs S wanted to take out a second  charge with a different  lender. When  they 
approached Santander for its permission they were told that it could be done if the flexible 
options were removed from the mortgage,  but that all the other features of the mortgage 
(such as the interest  rate) could remain the same. They were told theyd need  to visit a 
branch to do this.
When Mr and Mrs S went into the branch the staff didnt  know  what needed  to be done,  and 
when Mr and Mrs S spoke again  to the mortgage  department they were told the previous 
information was incorrect and in fact a second  charge would never be granted  with a Flexible 
Plus mortgage.
Santander apologised the mistake and paid £100 compensation for the wasted branch visit. 
Our investigator thought that was fair, saying  it was explained in the mortgage  offer.  She 
said any complaint  about  the original advice needed  to be made  to the IFA, not Santander. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only deal with the complaint that was referred to us after being made  and 
investigated by  the business. For that reason  I cant comment on Mr and Mrs Ss complaint 
about the potential setup  costs of a different mortgage. If Mr and Mrs S wish to complain 
about that they will need to contact Santander directly to do so, as under our rules Ive no 
power to consider that issue within this decision.
The relevant  clause is set out clearly within the mortgage  offer that Mr and Mrs S accepted 
and therefore  forms part of the contract  they entered into. It says 
We will not agree to the creation of any new second  charges. All additional  borrowing which 
is to be secured on the property must  be made by using the available funds facility. 
All borrowing must be for personal  and not business purposes.
Mr and Mrs S have  described this as blackmail or extortion and said its not a fair term. I 
understand Mr and Mrs S feel that Santander  hasnt  treated them fairly. But in my view the 
decision not to allow them to take a second charge on this property was one that Santander 
was entitled to make. 
Santander doesnt allow second charges on properties that have Flexible Plus mortgages,  
so its not treated Mr and Mrs S differently from other customers with the same product. 
Ref: DRN50672222Whilst I am sympathetic to the situation  Mr and Mrs S found themselves in, Santander  
simply doesnt have  to grant the permission they want.
If Mr and Mrs S didnt  want  a mortgage  with this term within the contract then they could 
have chosen to not accept the mortgage offer and sought an alternative  mortgage product 
instead. And if Mr and Mrs S feel the mortgage was unsuitable for this reason  then thats a 
complaint theyd need to raise with their IFA directly as Santander did all it needed to do 
which was to clearly set out the term within the mortgage contract.
Santander has paid £100 compensation for the misinformation which led to Mr and Mrs S 
making a fruitless visit to a branch. That seems  a fair offer and Im satisfied Santander need 
do nothing more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5067222