K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a Royalties 
Gold packaged bank  account in 2002. 
background
Mr and Mrs Cs account history  is as follows:
Opened as a Royalties  account  in 1996;
Upgraded to a Royalties Gold  account in 2002;
Migrated to a Select Platinum account  in 2015. 
RBS has already upheld the sale of the Royalties account and provided Mr and Mrs C with a 
full refund of premiums  plus 8% simple interest. So I havent considered  the sale of the 
Royalties account  in this decision. Mr and Mrs Cs Royalties Gold account was migrated to 
the most  comparable account when it was changed  to a Select Platinum account, and Mr 
and Mrs C havent made a complaint about that. So I also havent assessed  it as a new sale.  
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  agree that the Royalties Gold  account 
had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think RBS mis-sold the Royalties Gold account and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs C have said they were  pushed into reviewing their accounts with RBS and it was 
during this time they were  told the Royalties account was being  phased out. And if they 
wanted to keep a free overdraft they would have to upgrade to the Royalties Gold account.  
I cant know for certain what Mr and Mrs C were told at the time of the upgrade.  Where  
theres a disagreement  over what happened I have to consider what  I think  is more  likely to 
have happened  in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs C have said they were  told the Royalties 
account was being phased out. 
In 2002 when they upgraded to the Royalties  Gold  account, the Royalties account was not 
being phased  out and it remained  available to consumers until 2012. In order for me to agree 
with what Mr and Mrs C have said, Id have  to agree it was more  likely RBS deliberately told 
them an account  was being withdrawn when  there  were no plans for this. While I accept this 
is possible, I dont  think its the more likely scenario. 
I can see that in 2015,  Mr and Mr Cs Royalties Gold account was migrated  to the Select  
Platinum account.  And this was because the Royalties  branded  accounts were  beginning to 
be phased out. Because  of this, I think its possible Mr and Mrs C have mixed  up the reasons 
for the 2002 upgrade and the 2015  migration, which is understandable. But on balance, Ive 
not seen enough to say its more likely RBS incorrectly  told Mr and Mrs C the Royalties 
account was being withdrawn in 2002.  
Ref: DRN56939152Fee-free banking has always been  available in the United Kingdom and Mr and Mrs C have 
said they previously  had a fee-free account.  So I think  they were  aware  of the existence  of 
fee-free accounts.  I also havent been told anything that makes me think theyd have 
believed this wasnt available to them with RBS, if thats what  theyd wanted. With this in 
mind, I think  its more  likely Mr and Mrs C were given a fair choice in taking  the Royalties 
Gold account, and they chose to take it because something about it appealed to them.  
RBS has let us know  that it didnt give Mr and Mrs C a personal recommendation for the 
Royalties Gold account based on their individual  circumstances at the time. Because of this, 
it didnt have to check if the account  was suitable  for them. But it did have to give Mr and  
Mrs C enough information so they could  make sure it was right for them.
At the time of the sale, the account  included worldwide travel insurance,  breakdown  cover 
when purchasing RBS motor insurance,  accidental death cover, 90 day purchase protection, 
payment card protection,  airport  lounge access as well as discounts on leisure activities and 
loans. As RBS was trying  to sell Mr and Mrs C an account with an increased  monthly  fee, I 
think its more likely  the RBS representative told them about the benefits to make the 
account more  attractive  to them.
Mr and Mrs C registered cards  under  the payment card protection  a few months after taking 
out the Royalties Gold account, so I think its likely they were given some information  on how 
the benefits worked. They also claimed  on the travel insurance in 2004, accessed airport  
lounges and received discounts  on shows as well as on three holidays. Based on their 
activity, I think  they couldve seen the benefits  on the Royalties Gold account potentially  
useful to them. Especially  as some benefits,  such as the travel  insurance, werent  available 
on the Royalties  account.
Overall, I think they couldve found the additional  benefits useful, and they were  eligible  for 
and did use some of the other benefits  too. So while I accept RBS may not have told Mr and 
Mrs C absolutely everything  they needed to know about the Royalties Gold account, I think 
they received  enough information to know  what they were agreeing to. And I dont think  
better information wouldve put them off upgrading in the first place.  
Mr and Mrs C may now, with the benefit of hindsight, think  they shouldnt  have upgraded and 
that some  of the benefits werent as good as they had expected.  And given what they 
mightve read or heard  about packaged  bank accounts, I can to some extent understand why 
they believe their Royalties Gold might have been mis-sold. But I think its more  likely than 
not Mr and Mrs C chose  to take the Royalties Gold account after having a reasonable idea of 
what it entailed. So overall I dont think RBS mis-sold the account to Mr and Mrs C. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5693915