K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the service his business  (RG)  received from HSBC  UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) when he tried to set himself up as the primary  user of the Business Telephone 
Banking (BTB) service.
background 
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to Mr B 
and HSBC so I wont  repeat  it in any great  detail.  Therefore, if Ive not mentioned  something  
its not because  Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. However 
in summary it is this; 
In April 2019 Mr B called HSBC on an unrelated matter and learned that he was not the 
primary user of the RGs business  bank account and that it was still recorded as his late 
mother who had passed away  in July 2010.  He was advised that he was therefore  locked out 
of both internet  and telephone banking and would be required to reactivate  both.  He was told 
that if he booked  an appointment in branch at 2 pm the necessary changes  would be made 
and he could be up and running by 2 pm the following day. He made the appointment but 
when he arrived at the branch he spent about 2 hours trying  to get matters sorted only to 
be told that he would have to wait for about 5  10 days for the changes to take effect.
Mr B says the account was changed  and updated about 7 days after his visit to the branch 
but feels that this delay  adversely affected  upon his business as he wasnt able to access  
the account.
HSBC agreed that the banking mandate was changed in 2010  following Mr Bs mothers  
death, and at that time it should  have checked the position regarding who was registered for 
the internet banking  service. As it hadnt done  so, it agreed that it should offer compensation 
of £100 although it later increased this to £250 following the intervention  of our investigator.  
With regard to the telephone banking service it has said that Mr B had not been registered  
for telephone banking  previously but that if he had gone into branch he could nevertheless  
have used the account.
Mr B was unhappy with HSBCs response  and so the investigator looked into the complaint  
and found that there had been  failings in the level of service provided by HSBC but found 
that the level of compensation  offered was fair and reasonable. As Mr B didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  What I need to decide is whether HSBC  
acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B. I take into account both HSBCs view 
and that of Mr B and I consider  the evidence and reach  what I think is an independent, fair, 
and reasonable decision  based on that evidence. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. It is accepted  
that since 2010 RG operated on the basis that Mr B used his late mothers log in details.  
Clearly HSBC ought to have initiated  a change but equally Mr B would have known that the 
business was using the incorrect log in details, and they too ought to have  made the 
appropriate arrangements  to change  and update them. It follows  therefore that whenever the 
Ref: DRN52372782request to update and change the details was made it would have resulted in some  impact on 
RGs business banking  whilst those  changes took effect. And Ive considered  the time it 
actually took HSBC to make the changes and I think this is not unreasonable.
Mr B has said that RG has sustained losses but there is no direct evidence  of that, save  that he 
has produced a document showing there to be a large gap in the March invoices. He also said 
that he has spent  a lot of time dealing with the complaint which  otherwise could have been more  
usefully used in working for the business. I accept that there  would have been some  disruption 
to the business whilst the account details were updated,  but I do not accept, without further 
evidence, that such disruption would have  been significant.
The failure of HSBC to contact RG and to initiate the changes  to the internet banking service 
is clearly poor service and as such it is right that HSBC  consider offering compensation. I 
have thought about the offer HSBC has already made and I think  that this is reasonable. It is 
in line with the awards this service would make  for distress and inconvenience in 
circumstances like this, and I think it is fair and enough to put matters right and to reflect  the 
time Mr B has spent in dealing with the complaint.
I have also thought about the other losses Mr B claims RG suffered and whilst I accept there is 
a gap in the March invoices this does not directly translate to any provable loss. So, without 
direct evidence of financial loss I am unable to make an award in this regard.  
I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  So I cant say HSBC have acted unfairly towards  
RG and Im not upholding this complaint.  
my final decision
HSBC has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I think  this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances. So my decision is that HSBC should pay £250  to RG.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask RG to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5237278