K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc applied a default to his account despite him 
maintaining a payment arrangement. 
Background
In July 2018, Mr R wrote  a letter to Lloyds to explain that an unexpected change in his 
personal circumstances was causing him some financial difficulties. At that point he was 
nearly £3,000  overdrawn  and was incurring daily overdraft fees of around £4 per day. In the 
letter, Mr R offered to pay £20 towards  the outstanding balance each month. 
Upon receipt of the letter, Lloyds suspended  interest and charges on Mr Rs account. 
Mr R maintained the £20 payments until March 2019. At that point, he noticed  that a daily 
overdraft fee had been applied to his account. He contacted Lloyds to question  this as hed 
understood that he was in a formal  payment  arrangement.  
Lloyds said it had written  back to Mr R in July 2018 to confirm  it had temporarily  suspended  
interest and charges. But the letter had also said hed need  to contact it to discuss  his 
income and expenditure so that a more permanent solution could be found. It said the 
suspension of interest  and charges  was only ever intended to be a short-term measure, and 
it had since removed the suspension as Mr R hadnt been in touch to agree a way forward.  
Mr R complained to Lloyds as he didnt think this was what had been agreed and hed never 
received an income  and expenditure form. He asked to continue making monthly payments 
of £20 towards the debt and for interest  and charges  to be suspended again.  Lloyds  asked 
whether hed be prepared to go through  his income  and expenditure over the phone, but he 
said he wasnt as hed already explained  what he could  afford. 
Lloyds didnt agree  to Mr Rs proposal. It said that if he could only afford £20 per month it 
was clear he needed longer term support. So, it would  be better to close the account,  apply 
a default and pass the debt to its recoveries team. It refunded the daily overdraft fee Mr R 
had incurred. 
Mr R referred  the complaint to us as he continued  to think  Lloyds had broken the terms of a 
formal payment arrangement. He said it never sent him a final response  letter.  And he felt 
Lloyds should  pay compensation  for recording a default  against his wishes.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
Lloyds had treated  Mr R fairly by temporarily suspending interest and charges. And in the 
absence of information about  his income  and expenditure,  applying  a default was the right 
thing to do. She added  that she was satisfied, on balance,  that Lloyds had sent a final 
response letter. Mr R disagreed so I need  to reach a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.  
Ref: DRN59854962Mr Rs relationship with Lloyds was governed by the terms and conditions  of his account. 
When Mr R wrote to Lloyds to explain there  had been a change  in his circumstances,  he was 
around £3,000  overdrawn. Under the normal terms and conditions of Mr Rs account,  Lloyds 
was entitled to charge him for the use of those funds. The amount Mr R offered to pay was 
considerably less than the overdraft charges he incurred each month. Effectively,  this meant 
he was unable to keep to his side of the agreement he had with Lloyds. 
Banks are entitled to record a default when  the relationship on an account has broken down. 
But given the negative connotations of a default,  we generally expect banks to allow 
consumers a reasonable opportunity to get things back  on track. Banks are required to work  
with consumers in financial  difficulties, and to treat them fairly. As a general guide, a default 
will normally  be applied  within three to six months  if the terms and conditions  of an account  
arent being met and things look unlikely to improve. 
In this case, Lloyds  suspended the contractual  interest and charges on Mr Rs account for a 
period of six months without recording a default.  This stopped Mr Rs debt from growing and 
kept the outstanding  balance within his arranged overdraft limit. It also meant  that the 
payments Mr R could afford  to make went towards reducing the capital debt. Importantly, it 
gave him a reasonable opportunity to get back on top of his finances. So, I think Lloyds has 
been able to demonstrate  that it took a fair approach  here.   
I appreciate Mr R thought  Lloyds had formally  agreed to a payment arrangement  indefinitely.  
But I cant see that Lloyds  gave him that impression. I think  it made clear in its response to 
Mr Rs letter that the suspension was temporary.  And that he should  make contact by phone  
to go through  an affordability assessment. The letter also encouraged Mr R to speak to 
organisations that provide  free debt advice. 
Mr R says he didnt receive an income  and expenditure (I&E) form to complete. The letter 
inviting him to go through an affordability assessment by phone was addressed correctly and 
theres a corresponding entry in Lloyds contact  logs which persuades  me that it was sent.  
Its unclear whether Lloyds enclosed a physical  I&E form, but as Mr R has since said hed 
prefer not to go through an affordability  assessment, I dont think hes lost out if it didnt.  
I think its also important to highlight  that formal payment arrangements  are generally 
reviewed periodically, usually every three to six months, to ensure  theyre  still suitable.  
Theyre not intended to go on indefinitely. Even if Lloyds had formally agreed  to an 
arrangement of £20 per month, it probably still would have got back in touch  with Mr R within 
six months to see how things had improved. So, I dont think hed be in a different position. 
After six months, Lloyds hadnt heard  from Mr R. It therefore removed the suspension of 
interest and charges. This prompted Mr R to get back  in touch, and he explained that he still 
wasnt in a position to pay anything more  than £20 each month. He declined to go through 
an income and expenditure, so Lloyds couldnt  take any reassurance that his situation  was 
likely to improve in the near future. In these circumstances, I think  recording a default and 
ending the relationship was a reasonable thing to do. 
Mr Rs credit file should accurately reflect how hes managing his account.  At the time Lloyds 
recorded a default, he hadnt  maintained  the account within the terms and conditions  for 
quite some time. And the information hed presented suggested  he wouldnt be able to in the 
near future. Lloyds had made concessions and provided Mr R with a reasonable opportunity 
to get things back on track, but this hadnt  led to any improvement. As such, the financial 
relationship had broken down, and a default accurately reflects  this.  
Ref: DRN59854963Mr R feels Lloyds should have given him more  time.  Even with interest and charges  
suspended, it would  have taken Mr R several years at the rate he was making repayments to 
get the account to a point  where he was able to maintain it within the contractual terms.
So, even if Lloyds had given Mr R more time,  I think its unlikely this would have led to a 
different outcome.   
As the default  will stay on Mr Rs credit file for six years, it was better to record it sooner 
rather than later. This means it will fall off Mr Rs credit file earlier.  It also permanently 
suspended interest  and charges, so all payments Mr R makes towards the debt from this 
point forward will go towards reducing  the capital balance. Taking  everything  into account, I 
think it was fair for Lloyds  to record a default,  so I wont  be asking it to pay compensation. 
Mr R has also complained  that Lloyds didnt send  him a final response letter. I can see from 
Lloyds system notes that it logged a complaint for Mr R on the day that he called in to 
question the daily overdraft fee. On the following day, it investigated the concerns Mr R had 
raised and sent him a final response  letter. The letter was addressed  correctly,  and it was 
marked as sent in Lloyds contact notes. On balance, Im satisfied that Lloyds did log a 
complaint for Mr R and that it sent him a final response letter.  
In response to our investigators view, Mr R also said Lloyds  hadnt  sent him a default notice. 
But it seems  that a copy of this, dated  24 May 2019,  was included in Mr Rs initial 
submissions to our service.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5985496