K820x#14complaint
A group of residents, who I shall refer to collectively as R, complain that Zurich  Insurance 
PLC has unfairly declined their claim. 
background
R has control over a number of flats and a piece  of window fell out from the building. When  
R tried to claim for this Zurich rejected the claim, saying the cause was most  probably a 
building defect not covered by the policy  in question.  R complained  to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter but did not uphold the complaint. As R didnt 
agree the case  has been referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint, for roughly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Almost all insurance policies only cover certain events, and these are listed in the policy  
document. When making a claim any policyholder has to prove that the incident claimed for 
is covered by one of these events, such as storm or fire or escape of water  etc.. This 
shouldnt be too onerous,  in that the claimant  only has to prove it on the balance of 
probabilities, that is just over 50% in their favour. Once this is done,  if the insurer wants to 
reject the claim, they must disprove  it. 
Unfortunately in this case I cant see that R has shown the event that led to the claim is 
covered to the extent required to make Zurich  pay for this. While I accept that Zurich hasnt 
proved the cause of the window problem nor has R. In particular there  is no real proof of any 
insured peril acting at the time, no obvious  storm or even accidental  damage from say a 
collision by something with the window. On that basis I cant  really  ask Zurich to meet  the 
claim. 
I have considered what has been said by the loss adjusters and the possible  building  defect, 
and Rs strong comments against  this. But even  if I were to decide that the loss adjusters 
werent qualified  (and that isnt my view)  I still cant see that R has raised any persuasive 
argument as to what did cause the problem, and as importantly that that cause is covered by 
the policy. 
Ref: DRN50755192my final decision
I make  no award against Zurich Insurance PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5075519