K821x#15complaint
Mr A complained because  Monzo  Bank Ltd refused to refund him for a transaction  which  he
said he didnt make.
background
On 16 March 2019, Mr A was abroad and about to fly home. He paid his hotel, then went  to
a restaurant for a meal, paying at 6.23 am (equivalent UK time). He went back to the hotel to 
pick up his luggage ready to go to the airport. Mr A intended to buy some duty free at a 
stopover airport. So at 7.18 am, while he still had access to the hotels Wi-Fi before catching  
the airport transfer, he used his phone  to transfer  £165 from his other bank  account  to his 
Monzo account.
But on the way to the airport, Mr A checked his app, and found that there had been a
transaction at a fashion shop for £190.21,  timed  at 7.20am, which he hadnt made. Mr A
discovered he no longer  had his card. He thought he must have left it at the restaurant, and
reported it to Monzo. His card was stopped.
Monzo refused  Mr As request for a refund.  It told him this was because hed paid money in
very shortly before the disputed transaction.
Mr A complained. He pointed out that hed previously paid money into his Monzo account
shortly before taking  out cash. He didnt think this was a good reason for Monzo refusing to
accept that the £190.21  transaction had been  fraud.  He also pointed  out that at the time of
the disputed transaction, hed been on his transport to the airport. And he said that hed
never made similar payments of that size before.
In its final response to Mr As complaint, Monzo said that it believed  Mr A had authorised the
transaction himself.
Mr A wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator upheld  Mr As complaint. She noted that the transaction had been
authenticated using the genuine card, and a signature. But she accepted Mr As evidence
that he hadnt disclosed his PIN to anyone, nor agreed that any third party could use his
card. The investigator  pointed out that Monzo hadnt provided a copy of the transaction
receipt. So it wasnt possible to check whether  the signature had been Mr As or not. This is
important evidence, so the investigator  considered that Mr A hadnt authorised the
transaction.
There was also no evidence that Mr A had been grossly negligent with the security  of his
card or PIN. The investigator also noted that Monzos records  showed no other attempts to
use the card after the disputed  transaction,  and no attempts to check  the balance in Mr As
account. This was consistent with the person  who had the card not knowing  Mr As PIN. So
the investigator considered Monzo  should  refund Mr A.
Monzo didnt agree.  It said Mr A had paid money  into his account  just two minutes before the
disputed transaction,  and it didnt consider this was coincidence. It said that Mr As account
showed a pattern of transferring money in, shortly before withdrawals.  Monzo also said that
a fraudster couldnt have known the exact balance  on the account.  And there were no further
attempts to withdraw money  from the account.  Monzo said that it hadnt felt it was necessary
Ref: DRN59256402to ask the retailer to provide the receipt with signature, because its other arguments
indicated that Mr A had authorised it himself.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on Mr As complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  regulations  for disputed transactions at the time of Mr As disputed payment on
16 March 2019  are the Payment Services Regulations 2017.  Generally speaking, these say
that a consumer is liable for authorised transactions, and the bank for unauthorised
transactions.
Theres a difference  between  authentication  of a transaction, and authorisation.
Authentication is the technical  part of a payment, and Mr As disputed  transaction  was
carried out using  the genuine  card. The issue in Mr As complaint  is about authorisation, and
whether he authorised the disputed payment or not.
The key evidence, which could  have  shown whether or not Mr A consented to the payment,
is the receipt. But despite requests from the investigator, Monzo didnt provide this. It said 
that it didnt believe  this was necessary. But its the key piece of evidence  which  would
have shown whether  the signature was that of Mr A, or whether it wasnt.
In the absence of this important information,  I looked  at the rest of the evidence:
- Mr As statements  do show a pattern of transferring money  into his Monzo account
shortly before paying money out. But this doesnt  prove that what  Mr A intended to
buy, after paying in the £165, was the disputed transaction. Its clear that Mr A was
indeed flying  home that day, and hes been consistent about his plans to spend
money on duty free, right from when  he first reported the loss to Monzo.  So I find that
Mr A paying  in £165 shortly before the disputed £190.21 transaction  doesnt  prove
that he authorised  the disputed transaction.
- I considered the fact that there were no further disputed transactions on Mr As
card. Mr A told us, and I accepted, that he kept his PIN secure. This was consistent
with the fact that the disputed transaction didnt  use Mr As PIN. But any fraudster
would have needed that PIN in order to find out how much was in Mr As account,  or
to carry out many other transactions. Another reason why there werent any more
disputed transactions  would  have  been that Mr A reported the lost card and disputed
transaction promptly. So the card was soon stopped.
- It was just under an hour between Mr A paying  his last genuine transaction  to the
restaurant at 6.23 am and the disputed  transaction at 7.20 am. Monzo  had said it 
thought it was unlikely a fraudster would have held onto the card for so long before 
using it. But its not known when Mr A actually  lost his card. It might have been in the 
restaurant, or on the street,  or it might  have been when he went  back  to the hotel to 
collect his luggage.  We cant know, but I thought it might well have  been  dropped  or 
stolen at the hotel,  in the physical disruption of moving luggage etc. This would  have 
been some  time around 7am. And there  are other possibilities too  an honest 
person might  have  handed in the dropped  card, and a dishonest person might then 
have kept it and used it. So it could have  got into the hands of a dishonest person at 
Ref: DRN59256403any point between 6.23 am and 7.20am. But even if it had been picked up or stolen 
by a fraudster very soon  after 6.23 am, I didnt  think it unreasonable  that it might 
have taken the fraudster just under an hour to go to a shop and use the card.
So I found that the key piece of evidence, the receipt showing the signature for the disputed
transaction, was missing,  despite the fact that the dispute was raised  immediately, when the
relevant document would still have been  available. I didnt agree with Monzo that the
circumstantial evidence  was, as Monzo said, overwhelming evidence. Mr As evidence 
about the circumstances has been  clear, consistent  and persuasive, and he reported the 
loss to Monzo promptly. I also accepted what Mr A said in one of his replies to the 
investigator, that he wouldnt  still be pursuing  this so many  months  later if hed given his PIN 
away or made the purchase himself.
Under the regulations, its the banks  responsibility if the customer didnt authorise the
transaction. As I found that Mr A didnt authorise  the transaction himself, I considered Monzo
should refund Mr A with the money.
This was what the investigator said, so up to that point I agreed  with her. But in terms of 
putting things  right, this service aims to put customers back  in the position theyd have been 
in if the banks error hadnt occurred. Mr A has been without the use of the disputed  £190.21  
since 16 March 2019, and we normally award interest at 8% simple on such financial losses. 
I also considered that Mr A suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of Monzos  
decision, and also how it handled the dispute. The impact of this would  have been  frustration 
and upset. To give one example, I noted  that when Mr A reported the loss, he had to deal 
with five people  at Monzo in relatively  quick succession. So I also considered that Monzo 
should pay Mr A a further £100 as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused 
by its poor handling  of the dispute.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mr A and Monzo  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my original  conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr A:
- £190.21 refund for the disputed  transaction; and
- 8% interest on this, from 16 March 2019 to the date of payment; and
- £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Ref: DRN59256404Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5925640