K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the poor service he has received  from Santander UK Plc during and 
after a visit to his old branch.
background
Mr M went to a branch  of Santander at the end of September  2017. He asked Santander to 
transfer €1,720 from his account. The transfer  didnt  go through. But Santander  still charged  
Mr M for the transfer.
While he was in the branch,  Mr M also told Santander that he was moving to France. He 
says he told Santander  he didnt want anything else sent to his old address. But he didnt 
give Santander a new address. He didnt have a new address yet.
Mr M says that Santander didnt  update  his details to say that he wanted to operate  his 
account paperlessly. And it didnt note that he didnt want  anything at all to be sent to his old 
address.
The day after Mr M visited the branch, Santander sent a new card to Mr Ms old address. But 
Mr M wasnt there anymore, and he didnt get the card. Fifteen days after the new card was 
sent, Santander cancelled Mr Ms existing card. 
But Mr M was in France by then. So Mr M was in France  without a working card.  He couldnt 
use his account.
Santander said that it had reissued Mr Ms card. It did that because  it felt that his old card 
was at risk of fraud.  And it had now updated  his account to be paperless. 
Mr M complained to Santander about  the problem with the card, and the problem with the 
failed transfer.
Santander paid Mr M back £25 it had charged  him for the attempted  transfer. And it offered 
him £100 to say sorry for the inconvenience  and stress  all this had caused him.
Mr M wasnt happy about that, so he complained to us.
Our investigator thought that Mr Ms card had been  blocked because hed been  using  it in 
France. 
Our investigator said that Santander accepted it had made a mistake. It had paid back the 
fees that Mr M paid for the transfer  which was affected by its error. And it had offered £100 
as compensation.  
Our investigator said that he thought  that Santander  should pay Mr M more compensation. 
He thought Santander should increase its offer to £150. 
Mr M didnt  agree with that. He thought that someone in the branch had personally messed  
up the transfer to cause  him problems. He thought  theyd done that because  hed 
complained about them  before. 
Ref: DRN51558762Mr M also said that he hadnt been able to give Santander a new address when he was in 
the branch. He didnt have a new address then. But he had specifically asked for nothing to 
be posted out to his old address. And hed also asked Santander to note that he would be 
using his card abroad. 
Mr M said that Santander issued a new card for Mr M on 29 September. That was the day 
after he was in the branch, and he hadnt  got to France by then. So he said that it couldnt  be 
true that his account was blocked, and a new card was issued, because Santander was 
worried about his card being used  in France. Santander issued  the new card before he got 
to France.
Mr M said that when he complained, he wanted  Santanders complaint department to talk to 
the branch to get their side of the story. But Santander didnt think that was necessary. Mr M 
still thought Santander shouldve done that. He thought that someone in the branch was 
deliberately abusing their position to harass  him. He thought that Santander  probably  had 
spoken to the branch, and was just trying to get him to believe it hadnt. It offered him more 
compensation after this. 
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigator, so the case was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Our investigator  thought that Santander had blocked Mr Ms card because he used it in 
France. But Mr M told us that Santander  sent out a new card before he ever got to France. 
-I read this case file very carefully, and I couldnt  see anywhere that Santander had ever 
said that it had blocked Mr Ms card because he was in France. I thought  that was 
something that our investigator considered was likely to have happened. I understood 
why he thought that, but I thought he was wrong.  
-Id seen Santanders internal notes about  Mr Ms card. The file notes  say that the card 
which was issued  on 29 September  was sent out as a proactive card issue.  Thats  
something Santander does to try to prevent fraud.  
-The person Mr M spoke to when he rang to make his complaint also clearly  refers to a 
proactive card issue. So I thought that was the reason  Mr Ms card was reissued. I didnt 
think it was anything  to do with transactions in France.
-I understood  that this confusion had upset Mr M, because he thought Santander  must  
be lying to us. I said I was sorry that this had happened. I didnt think that Santander did 
lie to us about  why the card was blocked.  I thought it had said that this card was issued 
because of fraud concerns. But it was nothing to do with him using his card in France.
-I asked Santander why this card was issued proactively  by Santander the day after Mr M 
had been into a branch. I knew that Mr M was concerned about the branch staff, and I 
wanted to know  whether  someone at the branch had ordered this new card for him.
-Santander showed us the process  that it uses for reissuing  cards.  The branch doesnt 
have any part in deciding if a new card is issued. I knew  from other cases  I had dealt 
Ref: DRN51558763with that this is just something that Santander  does from time to time, if it has concerns 
about the card. For instance, if someone reports fraud on an ATM, Santander may also 
replace other cards which  were used there. 
-So I didnt  think that the new card was issued because of anything to do with Mr M being 
in France. I also didnt think that it was anything to do with Mr Ms visit to the branch. I 
thought that it was just a coincidence that the card was reissued  the next day.
-But I thought Santander  made a mistake  when it didnt  update  Mr Ms account to 
paperless statements. And when it didnt do anything about his address. 
-If Santander  had done anything about Mr Ms address  while he was in the branch, it 
would have  told Mr M then that its not possible to operate  an account  without any post 
being sent at all. New cards  need to be issued by post,  so they have to be sent 
somewhere. I thought that if Santander had updated  Mr Ms details, it would also have 
had a chance to tell him that he would need  to give an address. And that couldve 
avoided many  of the problems  he faced  later, when a new card was sent to an address 
he no longer lived at. 
-I also looked  at the transfer that Mr M tried to make.  I thought that Santander made  a 
mistake there too. The notes from the branch seemed  to me to show that Santander 
thought Mr M wanted to transfer £1,720, not €1,720. Thats why it thought he didnt have 
enough money to make the transfer. Santander said that it realised it had made a 
mistake. So it paid Mr M back the £25 transfer fee he had paid.
-I knew that Mr M thought that someone  at the branch was deliberately persecuting  him. 
He thinks that Santander is covering this up. I read everything Santander sent to our 
investigator, and I asked Santander  further detailed questions  about whats  gone  wrong  
in this case. I wanted Mr M to know that I hadnt  seen anything that would make me 
think that anyone  at the branch  was doing this on purpose. I hoped that Mr M would be 
reassured by this. I thought that Santanders  branch  staff had just made mistakes. 
-Because I did think that things went wrong  because of mistakes  that Santander  made, I 
thought Santander  should pay Mr M some compensation. I knew  it had already offered 
him £100. But, like our investigator, I thought that wasnt quite the right amount for 
whats gone  wrong in this case.  I thought a payment  of £150  instead would more fairly 
reflect the inconvenience and upset that this complaint has caused to Mr M.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Santander said that it was inclined to agree with my decision, so it had nothing further to 
add. Mr S sent us a detailed reply, including new evidence. 
my second  provisional decision
Following the receipt of new evidence from Mr M, I changed my mind about the appropriate 
award in this case. So I issued a second  provisional  decision, and explained  why I still 
proposed to uphold it but had changed my mind about the award. This is what I said then: 
-I had previously thought that the transfer  Mr M tried to make didnt go ahead  on 28 
September because  there was a mix-up at the branch, and Santander  thought he 
wanted to transfer £1,720, not €1,720.  Mr M told us that Santander had said that there 
Ref: DRN51558764wasnt enough money in his account when it rang him, and hed told them that there was 
enough to transfer €1,720.
-But Mr M said that couldnt be right. He said he has a receipt from the branch to confirm 
that he was trying  to make the payment in Euros,  not in pounds.  He sent us that. 
-So Mr M had definitely  asked to send €1,720, and the branch had understood that. And 
he had enough  money to make the payment. But the transfer  wasnt done until 2 
October, after a manager rang him. 
-Wed shown Santander the receipt  that Mr M sent us. And wed asked it to explain what 
went wrong. It hasnt been  able to tell us. 
-I thought it was likely that there was a mistake  about this, and I thought it was most likely 
that this was Santanders fault. Santander refunded Mr M a transfer fee of £25 to make  
up for this. But Mr M has now told us that this was the rental deposit for his new home, 
and when the payment didnt go through, that caused him a lot of stress. So I didnt think 
that refunding  £25 was enough  to make up for that. 
-I also still thought  that Mr Ms change  of address shouldve  been noted while he was in 
the branch. I explained that I thought if Santander  had made  a note of that, it wouldve 
told Mr M that he needed to give it an address. And it wouldve avoided  his new card 
being sent to somewhere  he no longer lived.
-Mr M said he also asked the branch to update his employment details while he was in 
the branch. But it didnt do that either. I didnt think Mr M was telling us that he lost out 
because of this. He just wanted us to know that there was another  example of something 
that hed asked Santander  to do, and it hadnt  done it. 
-I still didnt think that Santander did anything wrong when  it re-issued Mr Ms card.  Id 
previously explained that I thought this was consistent with other cases  Id dealt with. I 
thought Santander just sometimes does  this. I didnt  think it was done  by the branch or 
was malicious in any way.
-But when  I wrote my second provisional decision, I said it looked as if nothing  that Mr M 
asked Santander  to do when he visited the branch on 28 September was actually done for 
him. Santander didnt  update his employment status. It didnt note that he didnt live at his 
old address any more. It didnt make  an overseas  transfer.  
-I still didnt think that this shows someone was being malicious. But I did think Santander 
really let Mr M down. It didnt do the things he asked. And it let him down at a crucial  
time. He was moving home and also leaving the country for a while.  So I no longer 
thought that a return of a £25 fee and compensation of £150 would be enough to make 
up for this. I thought  that a compensation  payment of £300 would be the right amount to 
make up for whats gone wrong  in this case. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides have accepted  this revised decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN51558765Even though  neither side has offered anything further, Ive still reconsidered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I havent  changed my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must  pay Mr M £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5155876