K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited mis-sold her a life 
insurance with critical illness cover as she was told she had to take it out with her mortgage 
and wasnt told that she had the option to shop around.
background
In 2000, Ms J met with a representative of Legal & General when she was looking to move  
home. They discussed Ms Js mortgage  requirements and the adviser recommended that 
she should start a decreasing term assurance policy with critical illness cover to match the 
mortgage.
In 2018, Ms J complained that the policy had been mis-sold to her. She said she was told it 
was a condition  of the mortgage she was applying for. She felt she hadnt been offered any 
alternatives and wasnt  told she could look elsewhere.
Legal & General said that having the policy was optional but it thought  the recommendation 
was reasonable  for Ms Js circumstances  as her family were reliant on her income to meet 
the monthly outgoings. The policy meant that the mortgage would be paid off if she suffered 
a critical illness or passed away so would give financial  protection  to her family.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. He 
thought the agreement Ms J signed at the time of the sale suggested that the various 
products available were  optional  and the policy met Ms Js aims  of being able to pay a lump  
sum towards  the mortgage in the event of her death. He didnt think  there  was anything to 
show that Ms J had to take out the policy with Legal  & General, but the adviser could only 
recommend Legal  & General products.
Ms J didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  for her complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The records  from Ms Js meeting with the adviser show that she already had a decreasing  
term assurance policy with another provider which was being  used to protect her existing 
mortgage. This was on a property she was intending  to keep and rent out. The adviser noted 
that Ms J wanted to have life insurance  so that shed be able to leave her property to her 
estate if she passed  away, and so that it would provide a form of financial protection  for her 
children.
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  think it was an unreasonable recommendation for Ms J 
to take out this decreasing term assurance with critical  illness cover.  The amount of cover  it 
gave her would gradually go down over the term in line with the capital she owed on her 
repayment mortgage and would pay out in the event of her death  or diagnosis with a 
specified critical illness.
I havent seen  anything in the available documentation to show that taking out this particular 
policy was compulsory for the mortgage Ms J was applying  for. From the application form, 
this mortgage  looks to be with a lender that was a separate business to Legal  & General. 
Ref: DRN50691382The adviser was an appointed representative of Legal & General and so could only sell its 
insurance products.  
However I do appreciate  that Ms J feels that she wasnt  told that she could go elsewhere for 
her life insurance. But the adviser wouldnt have been able to give Ms J advice on any other  
businesss life insurance. And she also chose not to accept all of the advisers 
recommendations for her at the time,  which I think indicates that she wouldve been  aware  
that she didnt  need to go ahead with everything  suggested.
Overall, I dont  think this policy was mis-sold to Ms J.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5069138