K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds  handling of his private medical insurance 
claims.  
background
After having treatment for cancer, Mr E started experiencing problems with his teeth.  In July 
2016, Mr E asked BUPA to accept  a claim for dental  treatment  under the cancer promise  of 
his private medical  insurance policy. 
BUPA didnt  accept  the claim until January 2017. It apologised for this delay and offered 
£500 compensation. 
Mr E later developed an abscess on his gum and required surgery. BUPA covered this. Mr E 
thought BUPAs delay  in accepting his claim had led to the abscess. 
Following the surgery,  Mr E needed  some further treatment. He submitted two invoices for 
this in January  2018. Then  in February 2018, his consultant facial surgeon (Mr I) provided a 
report proposing  further dental treatment. BUPA didnt pay the invoices Mr E had submitted 
and also didnt acknowledge  that it had received Mr Is report.  
Mr E complained about this, and BUPA apologised. It agreed to cover  the invoices Mr E had 
sent it, and paid him £300 further  compensation. Although Mr I was proposing further dental 
treatment, it said it wouldnt  accept any further  claims until Mr E had been assessed by an 
independent specialist. This was because it wanted confirmation that Mr Es need for further 
dental treatment  was required due to his previous  cancer treatment.
Mr E travelled some way to meet with the specialist, who agreed that his dental  problems 
were caused  by his cancer treatment. BUPA apologised for the delay this had caused  and 
paid a further £200 compensation for the trouble and expense  to Mr E in attending the 
consultation. 
Unhappy with BUPAs  handling of his claims, Mr E brought a complaint  to this service.  
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. He acknowledged that BUPA  had 
already accepted thered  been failings in its handling of the claims, for which  it had 
apologised and paid compensation.  However,  taking everything  into account, he thought  
total compensation should be £1,250. As BUPA had already paid £1,000,  he recommended  
it pay a further £250.
BUPA agreed with our adjudicators recommendations, but Mr E didnt. He requested  that 
his complaint be referred to an ombudsman, so the matters has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After Mr E submitted his initial claim,  there was a delay of six months before BUPA  accepted 
it. BUPA has already  accepted that there were avoidable delays here. For completeness,  I 
would agree. Mr Es oncologist confirmed in July 2016 that the problems  with Mr Es teeth 
Ref: DRN58900322resulted from damage caused by his cancer treatment. This was also confirmed by Mr Es 
dentist. 
Mr E thinks  that BUPAs delay  in accepting his claim led to him developing an abscess on 
his gum,  for which he required surgery. However,  as the adjudicator  has pointed out, we 
havent seen any medical evidence which confirms  this. I therefore cant hold BUPA  
responsible for this. 
BUPA covered  the surgery Mr E had to remove the abscess. However, shortly after the 
surgery, Mr E had more dental treatment  and submitted invoices for this in January  2018. 
BUPA didnt  pay the invoices and didnt contact Mr E about the matter. It then received Mr Is 
report in February 2018, but again didnt deal with this. 
It was only after Mr E complained to BUPA  in April 2018 that it paid the invoices and 
acknowledged that it had received Mr Is report.  After considering  the report, BUPA  said it 
didnt confirm a causal link between the need for the proposed dental treatment and Mr Es 
cancer treatment. It therefore wanted Mr E to have a consultation with an independent 
specialist. 
Mr E agreed to attend the consultation, however I see the appointment was over 120 miles 
from his home. He says the appointment only lasted five minutes as the specialist 
immediately agreed  that the problems with his teeth  had been caused  by his cancer 
treatment. I see the specialist confirmed this in writing to BUPA.  
I agree  with the adjudicator that this consultation  was unnecessary.  Ive read Mr Is report 
from February 2018, and he made it clear that he thought Mr Es dental problems were  most 
likely relating to his chemo  radiotherapy.  If BUPA had wanted more  information, I think  it 
should have asked Mr I about this, particularly  as hes a specialist. 
Overall, its apparent that BUPA  didnt handle Mr Es claims well. There  were avoidable 
delays, and BUPA didnt  communicate with Mr E when  it should have done. It also required  
him to attend an unnecessary consultation.  All of which has caused  him trouble and upset. 
BUPA has made three separate offers of compensation for the various  issues. However, like 
the adjudicator  I think its important to look at whats happened as a whole  when deciding  
compensation. The adjudicator thought  total compensation  of £1,250  would be appropriate, 
and I agree that seems reasonable.
Mr E says he accepted  the £500  compensation BUPA initially  paid him for the delay in 
accepting his claim, and considered that matter closed. Hes concerned  that he then had to 
again convince BUPA of the legitimacy of his claim,  and this involved an unnecessary  trip to 
see a specialist. He says his expenses in making  that trip were  approximately  £250, which 
means if we require BUPA to pay him an additional £250, then his actual compensation will 
only be £500  which is the same amount as he received from BUPA in its settlement of his 
original complaint. He thinks BUPA could continue  being difficult  in accepting future claims, 
in the knowledge that it would only cost it £500.  
Given whats happened with Mr Es previous claims, I can understand his concerns. 
However, BUPA is entitled to check that any dental treatment required is only needed due to 
Mr Es previous cancer  treatment, since the policy  doesnt  otherwise cover dental treatment. 
Having said that, Id expect BUPA to be mindful  of whats happened  with Mr Es previous 
Ref: DRN58900323claims when dealing with any future  claims from him for dental treatment, so that the same 
problems dont reoccur. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA  Insurance  Limited to pay Mr 
E an additional £250 compensation,  if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5890032