K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the amount  of compensation Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) 
has offered for a mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that was associated 
with his credit card.
background
Mr R took out a credit card with Barclays in May 2001 and at the same time bought a PPI 
policy. Mr R complained in 2011  that the PPI was mis-sold but Barclays didnt uphold his 
complaint.
In 2014, Barclays  introduced  some new approaches and reviewed a number of complaints. 
Following this it wrote to Mr R in November 2014 indicating  it was now intending to uphold 
his complaint that the PPI was mis-sold.  RBS didnt hear back  from Mr R and chased for a 
response in January 2015 but heard  nothing  from Mr R.
In 2018 Barclays  again wrote to Mr R, at a different address, indicating it was willing to 
uphold his complaint and enclosing a copy of its original letter from 2014. It also shortly 
afterwards sent a cheque for the amount of compensation it had offered.
Mr R contacted Barclays and said he was unhappy with the amount of compensation it had 
offered and paid.  He said Barclays  took advantage of him when it sold the PPI and having 
taken 17 years to rectify the position  he should get more compensation. Mr R was also 
unhappy that there may have been  a breach of his privacy rights as he thought two separate  
businesses had shared information  about his address.  He said £5,000.00 in compensation 
would be more appropriate for the actions of Barclays.
Barclays didnt agree any more compensation should be paid, so Mr R brought his complaint 
to this service. 
Our adjudicator said they thought Barclays had paid fair compensation. But Mr R didnt 
agree and asked  for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly indicate that Barclaycard  and Barclays Bank are all part of the same business,  
Barclays Bank UK PLC. So Mr Rs contact information was not shared between  two different 
businesses as he thought. His bank account and credit card are operated by the same 
banking business  so all records  on this account are available to Barclays. His complaint is 
about the PPI on his credit card but he will note this decision is set up against Barclays Bank 
UK PLC as that is the legal  entity responsible for the matter.
PPI was not always mis-sold and was useful to some people. Over  time as Barclays  has 
investigated PPI complaints  it has changed  its approach and also has more historic  
information available to assist in determining  complaints. 
So whilst the approach it took in 2011  resulted in not upholding Mr Rs complaint, this has 
now been reviewed. Having  reviewed  its approach in certain  cases, Barclays  found Mr R 
Ref: DRN58687592was mis-sold the PPI and tried to contact him about  this in 2014  and 2015  but received  no 
reply. 
Barclays was carrying out further reviews  in 2018 and again wrote to Mr R, by which  time it 
seems he had updated the address  on his bank account. So he did receive this offer letter.  
But he is very unhappy with the amount of compensation offered and brought his complaint 
to this service. 
During the investigation of the complaint he has continued to highlight some issues  about 
the PPI being  mis-sold. He also says he was sold something that was completely useless 
and paid for a service  that didnt exist and was of no use. 
However none of this affects the outcome of this complaint, as Barclays  has now agreed to 
uphold the complaint that the PPI as mis-sold. So Im not in this decision looking  at how the 
PPI came to be mis-sold  and addressing in detail all the specific  points and arguments 
raised by Mr R about the mis-sale. Im only considering whether the compensation offered 
by Barclays to settle the mis-sale complaint is fair.
We consider that the compensation paid for mis-sold PPI should as far as possible put a 
consumer in the position they wouldve been  in if they hadnt  bought  the PPI. That means 
paying back any costs  the consumer paid for the PPI and also paying some compensatory 
interest for any time a consumer is out of pocket for those costs. 
In this case Barclays has full records of Mr Rs account from when it was opened  in 
May 2001 until it closed  in June 2009.  So it knowns how much  Mr R spent; what was 
charged for the PPI based on the actual balances; and also what Mr R would have paid in 
interest on those PPI premiums that were added to his card account.
Barclays data shows that Mr R used  his card on a semi regular basis  and generally  paid off 
the full balance the following month, so paid little interest on his spending. The records show 
a total of £92.89 was charged  to the card for the PPI premiums.  As Mr R mostly cleared the 
balance each month he paid little card rate interest.  On these premiums the interest  charged  
has been calculated  as £6.77, making  a total of £99.66 as the costs paid for the PPI.
Mr R stopped using  his card in June 2009  and since then has been out of pocket  for the total 
costs of the PPI. He was also out of pocket for some of the costs on an ongoing basis during 
the life of the account use. So Barclays has worked  out 8% simple interest on what he was 
out of pocket from the date this occurred to the date it made the payment of the 
compensation to Mr R in 2018. 
Barclays sent Mr R a cheque for the compensation in November 2018 and this has been 
cashed. So he is no longer out of pocket for the PPI costs.
Mr R is very unhappy that when  he first complained to Barclays in 2011  about the PPI it 
didnt uphold  his complaint. But he has been  compensated  for the full time he was out of 
pocket, not just until he made his original complaint in 2011.  
Mr R has also expressed concern about tax being deducted from his compensatory  interest 
and that he has to incur  further costs to get this back as he is now living  overseas. 
Barclays was legally  obliged to deduct this tax by HM Revenue and Customs.  Mr R has to 
contact them  for a refund of this as they will need to consider  his individual  circumstances 
Ref: DRN58687593and whether any tax was due or owing  under  UK law. So Barclays  did the right thing in 
deducting this tax.
I also note Mr R says the amount of compensation paid is not acceptable as it doesnt 
punish Barclaycard  severely enough.  The financial  ombudsman service is not the regulator  
of financial businesses that is the Financial  Conduct  Authority. The ombudsman service  is 
here to resolve  disputes informally between consumers and financial business and it is not 
our role to punish a business. So the compensation we consider to be fair, for mis-sold PPI, 
is an amount to ensure a consumer is not out of pocket for the costs of the PPI if the 
business has mis-sold this insurance.
I think what Barclays has offered and paid to Mr R in compensation does refund him all the 
PPI costs he paid and also gives him some compensation for being out of pocket. So I think 
what it has done is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think what Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered in 
compensation to settle Mr Rs complaint  is fair and Im not telling it to do anything  further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5868759