K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained  about  Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limiteds (Aviva) decision to turn 
down Mrs Ls claim  for critical illness benefit. 
The policy was taken  out with a company I shall refer to as B which was taken over by 
Aviva. 
background
Mr and Mrs L applied for a Mortgage  Protection policy in June 2011 with life and critical 
illness cover.  They  completed the application  in early April 2011  through an agent  of B. The 
application form included  the following questions: 
In the last five years, have you had any of the following:
Had or have been advised to have any medical  investigations, scans  or blood tests?
Received any form of medical  attention  at a hospital as an inpatient  or an 
outpatient? 
Do you currently have, or have  you ever had any of the following:
Blindness, blurred  or disturbed vision not fully corrected by glasses or contact  lenses 
e.g optic neuritis or glaucoma? 
Mrs L answered no to each of these questions. 
In June 2011 B sent Mrs L the proposal  summary  document and asked that she check  the 
answers shed provided on the application form. B accepted the policy and cover started on 
21 June 2011.  
Mrs L contacted Aviva  in May 2018 to claim on the policy as shed sadly been diagnosed 
with multiple sclerosis (MS). Aviva requested medical evidence to allow it to assess  Mrs Ls 
claim.
Mrs L was unhappy  with how Aviva was handling  her claim and the time it was taking so she 
complained. Aviva wrote to Mrs L in January 2019  refusing  the claim. It said Mrs L shouldve 
answered yes to the above questions because of her episode  of visual  disturbance and an 
MRI scan  shed had in April 2011, when she applied  for cover in June  2011.  If she had, 
Aviva said it wouldve asked for more information  about the results of the MRI scan and 
based on those  results, it wouldnt  have offered her any cover. So Aviva cancelled  the policy  
and returned the premiums  (£3,090.28). But it accepted the claim couldve been handled 
better and paid Mrs L £100  for the distress caused. 
Mr and Mrs L returned the premiums to Aviva as it wanted the cover to stay in place until our 
service had looked at Avivas decision to refuse  the claim. Mr and Mrs L said:
Aviva  was wrong to say Mrs L had answered  the question about  blurred vision  
incorrectly as shed  not been diagnosed with an eye condition as the question 
suggested;
that Mrs L didnt have an appointment for an MRI scan in April 2011 when she 
completed the application;
Ref: DRN57857592that by answering  yes  to the question Are you currently awaiting a medical  
consultation or hospital appointment, or awaiting results  of any tests?  Mrs L had 
alerted Aviva to the fact she was in receipt of medical attention; and
that Aviva was wrong to say Mrs L acted deliberately/recklessly when completing her 
application form. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and felt Aviva had acted reasonably by declining  
the claim and returning the premiums.  He said because Mrs L had presented with visual 
disturbance and had an MRI scan,  this shouldve  been disclosed  as part of the application.  
As Mr and Mrs L remained  unhappy  the case  has been passed to me for review.  They  said:
they were unclear  as to whether Aviva was saying  Mrs L acted  deliberately/recklessly 
and thought Aviva shouldve  been  clearer about  that;
that the question about blurred vision was unclear and misleading; and
Aviva  should provide  assurances the underwriting its relying on was in place at the 
time of the application and that cover wouldve been declined.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as our investigator.  Aviva has however agreed to take some  
action to make sure the settlement  offered  to Mr and Mrs L is fair. 
During my review,  Aviva  sent letters about  the premiums to Mr and Mrs L. Mr and Mrs L are 
unhappy about Avivas actions.  This is a new issue which  Ive not made a finding on in this 
decision. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, including more information  I asked Aviva for, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its 
not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because  I dont think  I need  
to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I know my decision not to uphold this complaint  will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs L as this 
has been a very difficult time for them.  But Id like to take some time to explain how Ive 
reached my decision.  
In considering this complaint Ive taken  into consideration the appropriate industry  guidance 
that was in place at the time Aviva considered the claim  Misrepresentation and Treating  
Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims  For Individual and Group Life, 
Critical Illness and Income Protection  Insurance Products April 2013. This sets out what is 
expected of a consumer  and insurer when entering into an insurance contract. It also sets 
out the remedies available to the insurer if a consumer has made a misrepresentation.
was there  a misrepresentation?
Mrs L says she answered no to the question about  blurred or disturbed  vision  because  she hadnt 
been diagnosed with an eye condition.  
Ref: DRN57857593Aviva said the medical evidence shows Mrs Ls GP made an urgent referral to the ophthalmology 
department. This originated from an appointment with her optician in February 2011 where she 
said shed been  struggling to focus. 
The question refers  to specific eye conditions as an example of when visual abnormalities  arent 
corrected by glasses  or contact lenses. But I dont think the question misleads the applicant into 
thinking they have to have  been  diagnosed with an eye condition in order  to disclose the blurred 
vision. The applicant is asked if theyve ever had blurred or disturbed vision.  Ms L had, and had 
been referred to an ophthalmologist. So I think Mrs L shouldve answered  yes to this question.  
I turn now to the questions about whether Mrs L had been advised to have any medical 
investigations, scans or blood tests  or if she had received any medical attention in the last five 
years.
Mrs L says when she completed the application  in April 2011; she hadnt received information 
about the MRI scan. B sent Mrs L a copy of the proposal summary in June 2011, along  with a copy  
of her application. They asked her to review the answers provided and if any of the details are 
incorrect or have changed  since your application was submitted, please  return the document  with 
any amendments clearly  shown, signed  and dated.
I can see from the medical evidence the MRI appointment  was on 14 April 2011 and Ms L was 
reviewed by the ophthalmologist on 2 May 2011.  So when she was asked to review the answers 
on her application  form in June 2011, shed had medical investigations/scans and been treated as 
an outpatient and so I think she shouldve answered yes to these questions.  
Mrs L says the reason  she didnt answer  yes to the question about receiving medical attention was 
because she answered yes to the question  Are you currently awaiting a medical consultation or 
hospital appointment, or awaiting results of any tests?.
Ive looked at the application form Mrs L completed and asked Aviva what supplementary 
questions she was asked.  It told me the underwriters noted  Mrs L answered yes to this question 
and to a question about asthma. Aviva said the asthma related section of the application form 
contained a free format box in connection  to the awaiting investigations question,  and Mrs L only 
mentioned investigations relating to asthma.  
I dont agree with Mrs Ls view that by answering yes to a question about awaiting medical 
consultation, this meant  she didnt have to tell Aviva  about the MRI scan and referral  to an 
ophthalmologist. I can see from the application  that Mrs L provided  no additional information about 
the MRI scan or ophthalmologist referral  when prompted to do so, instead she only referred to her 
asthma. 
Id also add that when Mrs L was asked  to check the application in June 2011,  the picture had 
changed. Whilst she was still under  review,  Mrs L had the results of the MRI scan  and had been 
seen by the ophthalmologist. So by this time she wasnt  awaiting a consultation  or results, and 
this shouldve prompted Mrs L to review all the information shed provided to B back in April 2011.
Taking account of everything Ive found, I think Aviva was fair to say Mrs L didnt disclose all the 
required information when  applying for cover. 
Ref: DRN57857594what would  Aviva have  done differently?
The ABI Code of Practice sets out that a misrepresentation should be considered  careless  
when theres a failure to exercise reasonable care. This includes anything  from an 
understandable oversight or an inadvertent mistake to serious negligence. The Code goes 
on to say that a careless category means the misrepresentation would have resulted in a 
different underwriting outcome. 
Aviva has confirmed to me that it treated Mrs Ls misrepresentation as careless, which  I 
think is reasonable in the circumstances as theres  nothing to suggest  she acted deliberately 
or recklessly. In line with the Code, Aviva  looked at a proportionate offer to place Mr and 
Mrs L back in the position  they wouldve been in had the questions been  answered correctly. 
Avivas confirmed to me that given the MRI scans findings and the ophthalmologists  
conclusions, the underwriting  at the time wouldve referred to guidance on possible MS. And 
in doing so, Mr and Mrs Ls application  for critical illness cover wouldve been  declined and 
their application  for life cover wouldve been  postponed.  
The Code says that when an application is postponed, the decision whether to offer cover is either 
based on the original application or requires the customer  to re-apply. This is usually dependent on 
how long the application has been  postponed  for. If a new application is needed,  then the original 
application is treated  as declined. Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that Aviva  wouldve 
postponed Mr and Mrs Ls application  for life cover for one year if itd known Mrs Ls full medical 
history - after which time it wouldve required them to submit  a new application.  So, under the 
Code, Aviva was entitled to decline  the claim, cancel the policy  and return the premiums.
Overall, I think this is fair and in line with the requirements of the Code. Whilst  in mightve helped if 
Aviva had been clearer with Mr and Mrs L on how it was categorising the misrepresentation, and 
why both critical illness and life cover wouldve been  declined, this isnt something it was required 
to do. 
cover for Mr L.
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Mr Ls policy was cancelled,  and he was left without cover.  
Our usual  approach in cases like this, where a joint policy has been compromised because 
of a misrepresentation by one party, is that cover should remain  in place for the other  party. 
Aviva has agreed to:
reinstate Mr Ls life and critical illness cover  from 21 June 2011 with a monthly  
premium of £23.28;  and
refund  Mrs Ls premiums (£3,090.28 - £2,374.56)
Ref: DRN57857595my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5785759