K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms L are unhappy with the service they received from Union Reiseversicherung 
AG (URV).
This is a joint complaint  but for simplicity, Ill refer to all submissions as being made by Mr M.
background
Mr M took out an annual  travel insurance  policy for his family  with URV in March 2018. A few 
months later, in May, his wife suffered a cardiac  arrest. Mr M and his family were due to go 
on holiday  in July and again in August 2018. URV  said it could no longer provide cover  for 
Mr Ms wife and so gave them the option  of making  two cancellation claims under the policy, 
or, to receive a full refund of the premiums.  
Mr Ms complaint is that hes unhappy  with the options URV provided. He accepts that URV  
was entitled to withdraw cover for his wife, but said it should then have offered a pro-rata  
refund of the policy premium for his wifes  unused period of insurance. Mr M said it should 
have offered this alongside considering any claims for the cancellation triggered by URVs 
decision to withdraw  cover for his wife. 
URV said it offered  Mr M both options,  although, it acknowledged he could only choose  one 
of them.  URV said that should a refund have been given, then Mr M would effectively forfeit 
his right to bring  a claim  for cancellation under the policy. It also offered to waive the 
applicable excess for one of the potential claims had they come  to fruition.
Our investigator said URV  had acted in line with her expectations. She noted Mr M did not 
need to make a claim for cancellation  because  he and his family  went on both holidays. And 
so the only option left was to receive  a refund.
Mr M did not agree. In summary,  he said the options  set out by URV were unfair. He also felt 
URV behaved unreasonably and insensitively. So he asked for a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded URV 
has been unreasonable here. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms argument is that URV would no longer provide cover  for his wife following  her cardiac 
arrest  which was a couple  of months  before they were due to go on holiday. This was a 
family policy where hed paid for a years  worth of cover.  Mr M said that because URV  
withdrew the cover part way through the year, it should partially  reimburse him for his wifes 
unused period of insurance. 
URV offered to refund  the cost of the policy in full but said if Mr M decided to go ahead  with 
this, then he would not be able to make a claim for the cancellation of his holidays.  And this 
is essentially why hes unhappy  because he thinks he should have been able to do both. 
Mr M has made representations about contract law and service agreements. I also 
understand the connection hes attempted to make  about having  both options available to 
Ref: DRN50711272him  the refund  and the ability to claim  but I dont think  that would be reasonable for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain
URV were willing to consider both cancellation claims for the two holidays  Mr M had booked.  
This would have been the right thing  to do had Mr M actually brought  those claims, but this 
did not happen because he still went on both holidays. Its also worth noting those claims 
would have considered the full cost of both holidays for all four policy members. I also think 
its likely  that this would have exceeded the overall  cost of the policy  due to the potential  
scope of the claims. And this would have been  to Mr Ms considerable advantage. 
I dont think its unreasonable for URV  to say that had it considered  those claims no refund 
would have been due under the policy because  a claim would have been brought. 
Otherwise, Mr M and his family wouldve had the benefit of the cover,  but at no cost. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for them to take this approach in the circumstances of this 
case. 
If URV had given Mr M a partial refund for his wifes unused  insurance period then he would 
have still been  able to bring a claim for the cancellation of both holidays,  however, URV 
would have only considered the cancellation  costs for the remaining three  travellers as 
Mr Ms wife would not have had cover.  
Its unclear why URV offered  to refund the full cost of the policy  but Im satisfied they were  
trying to be flexible and offer Mr M as many  options as they could to assist  him. But, as Ive 
outlined above,  I dont think it would be fair to expect URV to refund  the premiums  in full and 
still pay the claim.  
The fair thing  to do here would have been  to consider any claims that were brought   which 
is what URV offered  to do, but there  werent any. So, in any event, theres effectively no loss 
here. The points  made  by Mr M are largely  circumstantial and so its difficult for me to make 
a finding on these as I can only consider what did happen, rather  than what might  have  
happened. But Im satisfied that URV offered  Mr M reasonable options in the circumstances,  
which is what Id expect  them to do.    
Mr M also said URV was rude to him and treated  him unfairly but Ive not seen any evidence  
that persuades  me this was the case.  I note Mr M spent time going back  and forth with URV 
about the issues described above, but thats  because he was unhappy with the answer  it 
gave. There has been some confusion around what should have happened in these 
particular circumstances  and I hope my explanation  has been  useful. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think URV needs  to do anything more in respect  of this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5071127