K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs C took out on a store card account in November 
2001. It was added to her account  when she applied  for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
I think FICL  made Mrs C aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because FICL  has given  us a copy of the store  card application form 
from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented 
as optional. Mrs C signed  separately for the PPI policy and also on the application  form to say 
she consented to the information contained in it. So I think this reflected what she wanted.  Had 
Mrs C not wanted  the PPI she could have completed the application without signing separately 
agreeing to have  it.
So, on balance,  I think Mrs C was aware  the policy was optional and she agreed to take it 
out, knowing  it was something she could say no to.
This application was made by Mrs C completing  an application in a store. So because  of 
this, I dont think a recommendation was made by FICL. So FICL didnt have to check  if the 
policy was suitable  for her. But it still needed  to make sure it gave Mrs C enough information 
to make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her, taking into account her 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs C would  have acted differently and not bought  the policy, 
if better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think better  information  
wouldve led her to act differently.
Ref: DRN53383412Mrs C has told us she had at least 6 months  sick pay to repay the monthly  repayment  on the 
card. But this policy would have paid out in addition to any provisions Mrs C would receive. I 
think the PPI could have been  useful to her in that her store card payments would be met. It 
also would  have provided additional  cover  if Mrs C lost her job. I also couldnt  see any 
significant or limiting  terms that would have affected  Mrs Cs decision to take the policy out 
either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mrs Cs decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Cs comments provided by her representatives, but for the 
reasons mentioned above, these points  dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5338341