K820x#14complaint
Mr V says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  let to him irresponsibly.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  findings  on this complaint on 29 November 2019. A copy of 
my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.  In it I explained why 
I wasnt planning to uphold this complaint and asked Mr V and Sunny to let me know  if they 
had anything to add.
Sunny accepted my provisional decision. Mr V didnt  respond.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disagreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
findings. So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I do not uphold Mr Vs 
complaint against  Elevate Credit International  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56181062COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr V says Elevate Credit  International Limited  (trading as Sunny) let to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr V had nine loans  with Sunny. Ive summarised the details of the loans in the table below.
Loan Date Taken Date  Repaid Amount
1 30/11/2015 19/12/2015 £350.00
2 09/12/2015 18/12/2015 £50.00
3 30/12/2015 24/03/2016 £150.00
4 14/01/2016 26/02/2016 £100.00
5 20/01/2016 24/03/2016 £150.00
6 21/03/2016 24/03/2016 £150.00
7 28/03/2016 - £250.00
8 29/03/2016 - £150.00
9 07/06/2016 - £50.00
Our adjudicator thought Sunny was wrong  to have approved loans 6 to 9. Sunny didnt  agree with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint  was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Vs case. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr V could repay his loans 
in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and Mr Vs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages  of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These would include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion of their 
income 
the amount, or amounts,  due to be repaid are higher  
there is a larger number  and/or frequency of loans 
the period of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
  
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind,  I think that there are three key questions for me to consider in order to fairly 
and reasonably determine  Mr Vs complaint.  These questions are:
Ref: DRN561810631.Did Sunny, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr V would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those  checks have 
shown that Mr V would have been able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase  Mr Vs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful?
3.Did Sunny act unfairly or unreasonably  in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought about  all of these questions and what they mean  for Mr Vs complaint.
Did Sunny, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr V 
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks  have  shown that Mr V would 
have been able to do so?
Before lending  to Mr V, Sunny recorded  some information about his income  and expenditure. Mr V 
declared net monthly income of £1,200 for his first two loans and then £1,900 for loans 3 to 9. Mr Vs 
declared expenditure varied slightly, but was on average about  £460 per month. Sunny also carried  
out some credit checks, although it seems detailed checks were  only carried  out for the first loan.
Mr Vs loans were  repayable in instalments  across six months  although he repaid  loans 
1 to 6 early. The monthly instalment amounts ranged from about  £16 to £112 but because  some  of 
the loans overlapped, the monthly  amount due to Sunny  would be the sum of two or three 
instalments.
With this in mind, I think  Sunnys checks were, for the most part, proportionate for loans 1 to 6. Even 
where the instalments overlapped  they were still relatively  small compared to Mr Vs income  (and his 
apparent disposable income).  And Ive no reason  to find Sunny acted  unreasonably by relying on Mr 
Vs declared income and expenditure at this time. 
It's arguable that for some of the loans (e.g. loan 6), where Mr V appeared  to be regularly retuning for 
further credit in a way which suggested possible financial difficulty, that Sunny ought  to have asked 
more detailed questions  about his existing  credit  commitments  and so its checks  may not have 
been proportionate for these loans. But I dont think proportionate checks at this stage  in the lending 
relationship would likely have suggested any of loans 1 to 6 were not affordable. So Im not planning  
on upholding the complaint about loans 1 to 6.
I dont think Sunnys checks were proportionate for loans  7 to 9. It seems to me Sunny continued to 
rely primarily on Mr Vs declared income  and expenditure.  But I think  Sunny had reasons  to ask 
further questions about Mr Vs expenditure. Hed settled loans 3, 5 and 6 on 24 March 2016 and then 
returned for loan 7 just four days later. By this point in the lending relationship,  I think  Sunny shouldve 
been alert to the possibility that Mr V needed to reborrow  because he hadnt been able to settle loans 
3, 5 and 6 sustainably. Its checks shouldve  been proportionate  to that risk.
So I think it wouldve been reasonable for Sunny to ask Mr V to provide further information about his 
income and expenditure   including  information to help verify it such  as bank statements  or payslips.
At this stage Id usually attempt to recreate a proportionate  check, using information like 
Mr Vs bank statements.  But I havent seen any bank statements for the relevant period  and so am 
not able to make a decision on what proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
Mr V is welcome to provide  bank statements covering the period of loans 7 to 9 in response to this 
provisional decision.  However, as things stand, Im not minded to uphold the complaint about  loans 7 
to 9 on the basis  of them being unaffordable.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of lending 
increase Mr Vs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ref: DRN56181064Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of lending.   Ive looked to see if there was a point at which 
Sunny should reasonably  have  seen  that further lending  was unsustainable,  or otherwise  harmful.  
And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further lending.
Looking at the overall pattern  of lending in Mr Vs case, I dont think this point arose and Ill explain 
why. The figures I refer to below are only the principal amounts and dont include the interest Mr V 
owed.
The majority of Mr Vs loans  (1 to 8) were taken out in a relatively short four month window. The first 
two loans  were taken  out very close together and totalled £400. Mr V repaid these loans in December  
2015, one day apart. 
Mr Vs net indebtedness did not then really increase beyond  the initial  £400 borrowed  after this point. 
He essentially borrowed  the same net amount across loans 3 to 6 and then the same amount again  
across loans 7 to 9. As all of this happened over a relatively short  period of time, I dont think that 
Sunny shouldve  realised, just from the pattern  of lending,  that 
Mr Vs indebtedness was not decreasing over time  which wouldve  otherwise been an indicator of 
sustainability issues. I dont think  the pattern of lending  in Mr Vs case suggests a pattern of 
unsustainable borrowing was established.  
Ive taken the number of loans (as well as the amounts borrowed) into account  too. A need to 
repeatedly top up lending multiple times a month might indicate difficulty  managing money. But in Mr 
Vs case, I dont think the overall picture suggests this sort of borrowing. This isnt to say it wouldve 
been fair to continually lend similar amounts to Mr V, over an even longer period.  But in all the 
circumstances of Mr Vs complaint,  the number of loans provided doesnt suggest  the lending  wasnt 
likely to be sustainable.
In summary, I dont think there was a point  at which Mr Vs indebtedness  to Sunny  was unfairly 
prolonged by its decision to approve new loans. And the pattern of lending in Mr Vs case  doesnt 
suggest Sunny increased his indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise  harmful.
Did Sunny act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude Sunny  acted unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mr V in some other way.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not currently planning to uphold Mr Vs complaint against Elevate 
Credit International  Limited.
Ref: DRN5618106