K821x#15complaint
Mr O says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about nine instalment loans Sunny provided  to Mr O between October 
2017 and May 2018. They  were all for a six month  term. This is a summary  of Mr Os lending 
history from Sunny.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 16/10/2017 28/11/2017 100
2 11/11/2017 14/01/2018 150
3 09/12/2017 14/01/2018 250
4 19/12/2017 14/01/2018 50
5 30/12/2017 29/03/2018 50
6 18/01/2018 28/02/2018 50
7 23/01/2018 18/03/2018 50
8 23/05/2018 - 100
9 24/05/2018 - 100
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint in part and thought loans  5 to 9 shouldnt have 
been given. Sunny disagreed so the complaint been  passed  to me to make  a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 21 November 2019. Mr O responded saying he was 
happy with it. Sunny  disagreed with my provisional  decision. It said, in summary:
The checks for loans  5 to 7 were proportionate,  it had used  the most accurate and 
independent information to verify what Mr O had told it, and had taken into account 
unplanned and/or  seasonal expenditure.
There were  no signs  leading up to loan 5 that Mr O was having problems managing 
his money.
Of the 9 loans Mr O applied for four were for £50, a very small proportion of his 
monthly income that he could  repay  sustainably.
The total time Mr O borrowed from Sunny was 7 months, paying £156 in interest,  so 
it disagrees he paid large  amounts  of interest  over an extended time to Sunny to 
service a debt.
Ref: DRN59606172Sunnys records show  Mr O had sufficient monthly disposable income to meet his 
repayments. It has no evidence on its customer system that Mr O was experiencing 
problems. It wasnt until after his last loan was approved that he notified  it that he 
was struggling.
It would  like any evidence that Mr O was using Sunny loans wholly  or partially to 
refinance repayments made by earlier Sunny loans.
CONC does not mention  the number of previous  loans a customer  has had with a 
particular lender as a relevant factor in determining what  checks  are proportionate. It 
would be artificial  to use this as a basis  of its lending decision.
It is incorrect, in the absence of other evidence, to assume the number of loans  
granted by Sunny alone necessarily restricted Mr Os access  to mainstream credit.  
And even if Mr O was declined for such credit because of the number  of Sunny loans 
he had, that should  be seen as unfair  treatment  by other lenders who are not taking 
into account how he managed his Sunny loans.
my findings
Ive considered Sunnys response  to my provisional  decision, along with all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, my decision remains the same.  For completeness, I have set out 
my provisional decision below and addressed any relevant arguments made by Sunny  within 
it to form my final decision. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Os case. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Sunny  lent to Mr O. The 
FCAs Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as Sunny.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr O could  
repay his loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Os income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include, but are not limited to:
Ref: DRN59606173the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr O could sustainably  repay  his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
So, although  Mr O may have (up until loan 7) repaid his loans early,  and seemingly  without 
problems, it doesnt  automatically follow that he managed to repay them  in a sustainable 
way. And the regulations are quite clear that Sunny  needed to assess  the whether the credit 
it agreed was affordable  in a sustainable  manner.
 
CONC 5.3.1(2) stated:
The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customer's  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
Ref: DRN59606174[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
The previous  regulator, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT)  set out its guidance in the 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). Paragraph 4.2 stated:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question. We 
consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's likely  ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
The current  regulator  has highlighted relending as a serious concern. It said in a recent letter  
(March 2019) to the CEOs of high cost credit providers that:
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers  may be harmed across the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
 
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may 
not be able to afford.
CONC 6.7.21 stated  A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term credit  where  to do so 
is unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
Paragraph 6.25 of the ILG stated that one example of unfair practice  would be Repeatedly  
refinancing (or 'rolling over') a borrower's existing credit commitment for a short-term  credit 
product in a way that is unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
The OFT considers that this would include a creditor allowing a borrower to sequentially 
enter into a number of separate  agreements  for short-term loan products, one after another,  
where the overall effect is to increase  the borrower's indebtedness in an unsustainable  
manner.
Sunny told us it undertakes eligibility, creditworthiness  and affordability checks  before 
deciding as to whether  to provide a loan. I can see it asked Mr O each time for details of his 
income and expenses as well as carrying out credit searches. 
But by loan 5 I think Sunny should have been doing  more than relying  on the information 
Mr O was providing and instead  it ought  to have been fully reviewing  his financial 
circumstances. I note it has responded  explaining how it supplemented the data Mr O 
disclosed. Whilst there still may have been  additional checks it could have  carried out, I 
havent seen anything in the information Mr O has given us to suggest Sunny would have 
made different lending  decisions had it completed  fuller financial reviews. 
Ref: DRN59606175And as I set out in my provisional decision I dont think that Mr Os historical borrowing 
relationship with Sunny should  have  alerted  it to the possibility that he was having problems 
managing his money at this stage. I say this because the value of loan 5 reduced quite 
significantly  and it stayed low for loans 6 and 7. The loan and repayment  values were a 
small proportion  of Mr Os disclosed income. Plus it was less than three months  since Mr O 
took out loan 1. Overall, I dont think Sunny was wrong to give loans 1 to 7 to Mr O. 
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Sunnys lending history  with Mr O, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Os case, I still think that this point was reached at 
loan 8. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr O was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr O had taken out eight loans in seven months.  So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr O was having  to borrow  further to cover 
the hole repaying  the previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Os 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. Sunny has asked for evidence of this, 
but I think Mr Os pattern of borrowing was in itself evidence  of the unsustainability of 
the lending. For example,  loan 3 was taken out soon  after loan 1 was settled  and 
loan 6 just days  after loans 2, 3 and 4 were settled.
Sunny  has argued there were gaps  in lending showing Mr O wasnt reliant  on its 
products. But I dont think the length of time between loans 7 and 8, particularly when 
combined with the increase in loan value, was grounds for Sunny to conclude that his 
finances had stabilised. 
Mr Os first loan was for £100 and loan 8 was also for £100.  At this point Sunny ought 
to have known  that Mr O was most likely not borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing  need.  To reach a different conclusion I would 
expect Sunny to be able to evidence a consistent and sustained reduction  in Mr Os 
borrowing.
Mr O wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. He had taken 
out nine loans in the seven months after his first loan. Mr O had paid large amounts 
of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period. Sunny 
argues it wasnt over a long term, and it seems to say the amount of interest wasnt 
large at £156.  But I would  say there  was a high volume of relending,  and the loans 
Sunny was giving  Mr O were high cost  so I think they were most likely unsuitable 
for his apparent  ongoing need.
Sunny argues that my decision  focuses disproportionately on the pattern of lending, but as I 
set out earlier,  the regulator has highlighted that a high volume of relending is one of the 
primary indicators that a borrower may be harmed - and so requires  fair consideration. And I 
disagree that I havent considered other relevant factors  as can be evidenced in my earlier  
explanation as to why I havent endorsed the adjudicators  view that loans 5 to 7 should  be 
upheld.   
I think that Mr O lost out because Sunny provided  loans  8 and 9 because  these  loans had 
the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Os indebtedness  by allowing him to take expensive  credit 
Ref: DRN59606176intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time. And whilst I know  Sunny  
disagrees, I think based on how other lenders  might  view his credit history there was a risk 
to Mr O in having taken out such  a number of short term loans. It could have had restricted 
his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
In my view, its unlikely this situation arose  simply because Mr O had a short-term cash flow 
problem and instead its more likely that there was a longer-term financial issue.  As a 
responsible lender, I think Sunny  ought  to have realised that continuing to provide credit was 
likely to harm Mr O and so not agreed  to lend from loan 8 onwards.
So Im upholding  Mr Os complaint about  loans  8 and 9 and Sunny should put things right as 
set out below.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr O paid on loans 8 and 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loans  8 and 9, apply the refund to 
reduce any capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr O*;
the number  of loans taken from loan 8 means  any information  recorded about loans 8 
and 9 is adverse,  so the entries about  loans 8 and 9 should be removed from Mr Os 
credit file once they have been  fully repaid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny  to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr O a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends to apply the refund 
to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
*If after taking  these  steps Mr O still owes money on loans 8 and 9, Sunny must treat him fairly and 
sympathetically when trying to reach any agreement on how to pay the outstanding  capital due.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  Ive decided  to partially 
uphold Mr Os complaint  and direct Elevate Credit International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.   
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5960617