K820x#14complaint
Ms K complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card in 2005. She said she was pressured into taking out the PPI and 
because she was young, she didnt fully understand what the policy  was for. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Ms K with a view that this complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. But Capital One has agreed to pay some money back  for the commission it 
received from the sale. 
Ms K still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and has asked for an ombudsmans  
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ks complaint about the mis-sale.
Its important that I recognise this sale was quite a while ago. I therefore dont find it 
particularly surprising or unusual that we dont have every single record from the sale. Nor 
do I doubt that Ms K now honestly  and genuinely feels  the PPI was mis-sold to her. So given  
how long ago this was, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities i.e. whats more 
likely to have happened.
I can see Ms K took out her credit  card first, without asking for any PPI to be added. The PPI 
cover was sold around a week  later after Ms K already had been issued with the new card. 
So the PPI sale was during a phone call. 
Its unfortunate that we no longer have access to a recording of the call, but Capital One sent 
us a copy of a telephone  script which it says its staff were  trained to follow when selling  PPI 
over the phone. I obviously  cant say for sure if this was properly followed in Ms Ks case  but 
it does say that the call handler should  get the permission of the consumer before any PPI is 
added. So I think  the PPI would have been added  on that basis and Ms K would have seen 
from her subsequent statements that PPI was being  charged  on her account.
I therefore think its more  likely Ms K agreed  to the cover at the time and would have been 
able to see it had been set up on her account. 
Its certainly possible that Capital One could have explained the policy in more  detail than it 
did. But the script showed she ought to also have been told some things about the policy  
and how much it was going  to cost. So I think Ms K probably had enough to decide  what she 
wanted to do. And even If I accept more  could have been done by Capital One,  I dont think  
this makes any difference to my decision.
Ref: DRN53907492This is because Ive carefully  looked at Ms Ks circumstances  and I think she was eligible  for 
the cover  and not caught by any of the main exclusions  we tend to see in these types  of 
policy. Ms K said she already had some protection from sickness with her job and didnt 
need PPI. She said that her family could have always  helped  out if needed.
I do fully understand  the point being  made  but Im afraid this doesnt make  the PPI useless. I 
dont doubt her family would have wanted  to help but that would depend on their financial 
situation at any given time  and that can change.  The PPI, on the other hand, would have 
paid off 10% of her outstanding credit  card balance each month  for up to a year if she made  
a successful claim. This would have been  in addition to any other means Ms K had. So 
overall, I can see how the PPI could  have been  of use to Ms K.
Ms K also questioned  the cost of the PPI cover,  which  she says was high.  Ive given thought  
to this. However, the cost of the policy was 79p per £100 outstanding on the card at the end 
of each month. In my experience that level is broadly similar to many  other  forms of PPI 
being sold at around that time and I dont think it would have been  unaffordable for Ms K.
Im really  sorry  to disappoint  Ms K but I dont have enough evidence to say this policy was 
mis-sold. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to her. But its 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms K because when the policy was sold, Capital 
One expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium). It should have  told Ms K about that. Because  it didnt, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium.  I think that offer is fair in this case.
what Capital  One needs to do
If it hasnt  already done so, Capital One has to pay back to Ms K any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should  also pay back to Ms K 
any extra  interest  she paid because of that. 
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Ms K the difference  
between what Ms K owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. It should also pay Ms K 8%* simple interest 
if she paid off her credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms K can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms K.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Ms K any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Ref: DRN53907493Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5390749