K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc stopped sending her monthly statements for her 
current account.
background
Mrs H has a current account  with Lloyds. In July 2018 she received a letter  from Lloyds 
saying the statement process was changing.  Mrs H then didnt receive a statement for her 
current account for a few months. Because of this Mrs H complained to Lloyds. 
Mrs H suffers  from a medical  condition which means she cant  use cant use a mobile phone 
or computer.  So, Mrs H said she relies  on her paper statements to know  whats  happening 
with her account and because  she hasnt  received  statements for a few months  she has had 
to travel to a branch to find out about  her account. Lloyds issued its final response in 
December 2018  upholding Mrs Hs complaint.  
Lloyds said the letter sent to Mrs H in July asked about how frequent she would like her 
statements following changes in regulations. They said if no response was received the 
default would be to send them monthly, as Mrs H had been receiving them before. But 
because of a system  error the preference saved to Mrs Hs account was deleted  and no 
statement was issued  for September, October  or November. To apologise for this Lloyds 
paid Mrs H £350 plus £60 for the costs Mrs H incurred totalling £410.  
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response  and brought her complaint here. She said 
Lloyds deleted her statement  preference without her authority. She also said she wasnt  
satisfied with the reason Lloyds gave for why she stopped receiving  statements. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld.  They  
found that Lloyds had acknowledged theyd done something wrong but said what theyd 
done to correct it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  Mrs H disagreed and said 
she hadnt seen  any evidence to prove a system error had occurred. 
As Mrs H disagreed the complaint  has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Lloyds has done something wrong by not sending Mrs H her monthly 
statements. I understand Mrs H doesnt agree with the reasons given by Lloyds and says 
that someone must have deleted her statement preference without her consent.  Im also 
satisfied that this issue has caused  Mrs H a lot of unnecessary stress. 
My role here is to look into what  Lloyds  has done  and if something  has gone wrong what its 
done to put it right.  From reviewing Lloyds internal records and the copies of statements 
sent to Mrs H I can see she was receiving statements on a monthly basis up until August 
2018. She then wasnt sent a statement for September, October and November. After the 
issue was identified Lloyds then sent Mrs H a statement in December which included all the 
transactions since her August statement. 
Ref: DRN56424362I appreciate Mrs Hs concern about  why she stopped receiving statements but I dont think  
the explanation given  by Lloyds is unreasonable. Ive also not seen anything to persuade  me 
someone intentionally turned Mrs Hs statements  off. Even if I did think (which I dont) 
someone intentionally turned the statements off, Im satisfied what Lloyds has done to put it 
right is fair and reasonable. 
I say this because  not receiving monthly  statements has caused Mrs H a lot of unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. Also because of Mrs Hs medical conditions she relies heavily 
on her monthly paper  statement so Im satisfied that not receiving them would be worrying 
for her. Mrs H also had the disruption  of having  to go into branch to find out what was 
happening on her account. All of this would  have happened whether  Mrs Hs statements 
were turned off intentionally or by a system error.  
Lloyds has paid Mrs H £60 to cover her out of pocket expenses,  travel  to branch and also 
paid £350 for the distress and inconvenience.  When looking at all the circumstances of the 
complaint Im satisfied  this is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the upset and 
inconvenience Mrs H experienced. Im therefore not going to tell Lloyds to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5642436