K820x#14Complaint
Mr R has complained about a long term savings  policy he took out with Sun Life Assurance  
Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited.  He says the policy  was to provide him with pensionable 
income upon retirement and is unhappy  it hasnt  performed as well as he was expecting.
Background
Mr R took out a Wealth Builder policy in 1993. This policy was a unit linked savings policy  
which was designed  to build a lump  sum over the term payable upon  maturity or on the last 
policy anniversary before  his 65th birthday. His starting premiums were £20 per month  but 
these increased annually in line with inflation. The maturity date of the policy was January 
2027.
At the time of taking  the plan Mr R was in his early thirties and was employed. He was single 
and had no dependants.
When Sun Life investigated Mr Rs complaint initially  it upheld it. Its findings were  not in 
support of Mr Rs complaint points, but it didnt  feel it could justify the inflexible, long term 
nature of the plan. And it couldnt find any evidence that the adviser at the time has 
discussed shorter term policies or tax efficient savings methods with him. It also didnt feel 
that Mr R at the time of the sale held enough emergency savings.
Sun Life therefore offered Mr R a refund in all the premiums paid into the policy, plus 
interest, less any withdrawals and the surrender value (which was open for Mr R to take 
when he felt ready).
When this was calculated  Sun Life found the surrender value outweighed the total of the 
refund of premiums plus interest. So because of this, while  it agreed the policy was 
unsuitable for him, it found he had incurred  no financial loss and therefore no further monies 
were due to him.
Mr R was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this Service.  He said he wanted 
compensation and felt he had lost out on investing  elsewhere all the time he was paying into 
an unsuitable policy. He also remained  of the view that the policy was sold as an alternative 
to a pension plan.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
agreed with the reasoning Sun Life put forward for why the plan was unsuitable and 
therefore agreed with the redress method Sun Life used.
Mr R didnt agree with the assessment.  He questioned the validity of some of the 
documented evidence the investigator  and Sun Life had relied on and in particular said he 
had never  seen nor signed the fact find document which outlined that his objective for taking 
the plan was to build capital.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review  or a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN58393082My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree the complaint 
cant be upheld.
Essentially Mr Rs complaint is about the offer Sun Life has made after finding  the plan was 
unsuitable for him. However, in considering  this I also have to look into Sun Lifes  rationale 
for upholding  the complaint.
Having looked  through all the evidence provided I agree with Sun Life that while  Mr R has 
said he was advised  to take this plan as an alternative to investing in a pension plan there is 
no evidence of this recorded from the time of the sale.  
The documentation  completed at the time of the sale clearly states that Mr Rs first priority 
was to build  capital. In fact planning for retirement was marked as his last (fifth) priority. 
While this information is limited it was completed  at the time of the sale so its reasonable 
that I consider this to be an accurate record of what happened at that point in time. I know  
Mr R doesnt believe this is the case but he hasnt  provided anything to support his assertion 
that the record isnt accurate or to support he was sold the plan as alternative  as a pension  
plan. 
I know he also says he doesnt  recall seeing  it or signing  it but I have no reason to doubt Sun 
Life that this was completed in conjunction  with Mr R during the meeting with the adviser. 
Also his signature can be seen on the document. And given the plan was taken out more 
than twenty years ago its very likely he doesnt remember  signing  it or seeing it. Therefore, 
on balance I am satisfied that this document can be relied upon.
So based  on this evidence which I think is reliable I cant  agree Mr R was told to take this 
long term savings plan in place of a pension plan which would  have very different  
characteristics.
Sun Life has, however, decided the plan was unsuitable for the reason stated above. In the 
specifics of this case I largely agree with this rationale. Such  a long term savings plan taken 
at such a young age can be inflexible for some, even though Mr R was able to withdraw 
monies from it which he did in 2001.
Therefore my next consideration is whether the redress method used by Sun Life is in line 
with what I would do if I had upheld the complaint. And in this respect, I also agree. 
If a policy  is found  to be unsuitable then this Service aims to put the consumer  back into the 
position they would have  been in had the error  not occurred, or in other words had the 
unsuitable policy not been sold. In this case,  it cant be defined  exactly where else Mr R 
would have invested his monies. As already mentioned, I cant be certain that he expressed 
a wish at the time of the sale to invest in a pension plan. But given his recorded objective  
was to build  capital I think its reasonable to state that he was willing  to take an element of 
risk with his monies  in order to meet that objective. So in cases  such  as this in order  to carry 
out a calculation that would represent  this we use a certain interest  rate (benchmark) to 
represent where else the monies would have  been invested and the growth that would have 
accrued.
I therefore agree with the methodology Sun Life had used  to calculate the redress for Mr R.
Ref: DRN58393083I know he is unhappy that no compensation is due to him but this is because the surrender 
value of the policy is more than the total premiums he has plaid into the policy,  plus interest, 
and including  the withdrawal he made in 2001. Its important to note that the surrender value 
is there for Mr Rs taking should  he want to cancel the policy. And it is only right that the 
money he has already  received from the policy is not included in the redress  offer from Sun 
Life otherwise he would be benefitting  twice  from this which is unfair.  This service  isnt a 
punitive one. We are completely objective when  we look at complaints and must be fair and 
reasonable to all parties concerned.
I appreciate Mr R feels he has been lost out on time in being able to invest  elsewhere but 
this is why the interest calculation is included in the redress calculation. This takes account 
of the interest  his monies would have  accrued  if it was invested somewhere else in line with 
his experience level of investing at the time of the sale.
So in light of what I have  said above, I agree with the redress  methodology Sun Life has 
used to calculate the offer to Mr R. I also agree with its rationale. Therefore I dont think Sun 
Life need do any more  to resolve  the error Mr R has suffered  by being sold an unsuitable 
plan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5839308