1 K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that a new car that he acquired through  a hire-purchase  agreement  with
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) is not of satisfactory quality  and he 
would like to be released from the agreement and would like his deposit returned to him.
background 
Mr D first raised  a complaint about the car not being of satisfactory quality in an earlier  
complaint with this service. He also said that the difficulties had made him anxious. The final 
decision was issued  in April 2018. I decided then that it was likely  that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. I also thought it fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
that VWFS be given an opportunity to repair the car.
VWFS records show that it then attempted remedial work on the car. But, despite this, Mr D 
is unhappy that his major  concern persists. Mr D returned to our service  with a fresh 
complaint. It is this fresh complaint that I am looking at here. In this, he again  said he was 
very anxious and his work had been impacted.
This complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. In summary, he said he was 
satisfied that in the circumstances  it seemed more likely than not that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. He was also satisfied that the attempt  to put things  right 
had failed. And because of this he thought  VWFS should:
Unwind the finance agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected  at no cost to 
Mr D.
Refund to Mr D any deposit he paid for the car.
Pay Mr D interest on the deposit  at 8% simple per year (less tax if deductible)  from 
the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
Mr D agreed with the investigators conclusions but VWFS didnt. VWFS said,  in summary:
Certain fault codes  have only ever been  located in inspections arranged and paid 
for by Mr D. It would  expect fault codes to be permanently stored such that any two 
codes located  by Mr D after the work on the car took place should have been located 
in its own inspection  (in August 2018).
Even if Mr Ds report (dated September 2018) noted a fault code, this doesnt mean 
the fault is still present; just that it was present at some point in time in the past.
In August 2018, Mr D had travelled  over 30,000 miles. This is well over the mileage 
limit he agreed to when he entered into the hire purchase agreement.  It seems  unfair  
to VWFS  that Mr D should have  his full deposit  returned to him in these 
circumstances. It also questions whether this high mileage has played a part in Mr 
Ds desire to reject  the car.
VWFS asked  that an ombudsman review  the complaint. Therefore,  the complaint has been 
passed to me for review  and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 August 2019.  In it I set out why I found 
that the car on the balance of probabilities  was not of satisfactory  quality when supplied  to 
Mr D. I explained why it was fair and reasonable to require VWFS to take responsibility  for 
Ref: DRN55435172this. Further, I concluded that the repair work  had not corrected the problem. On that basis  I 
thought it was now fair and reasonable to require VWFS to end the agreement,  take back 
the car, and return Mr Ds deposit minus any outstanding payment for excess  mileage.
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  decision. Mr D responded to say that he 
agreed with my provisional  decision. Im not aware of any comments  from VWFS.
Im now ready to issue my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened  (as is the case in this complaint) Ive based 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what  I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the information  Ive seen.
I want to reassure both parties that Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific  
point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it, but rather because I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
In thinking about what is fair and reasonable, I need  to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The finance  agreement that Mr D used to acquire the car is the hire purchase agreement. 
VWFS is also the supplier of the car under  this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  its quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  theres  an implied  term that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant  law says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account  any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So, it seems  likely that in a case  
involving a car, like this one, the other  relevant circumstances a court  would take into 
account might include  things like the age and mileage at the time of delivery,  and the 
vehicles history.
Mr Ds car was brand new when  he acquired  it. Id expect a brand new car to be fault free.
Mr Ds complaint is that the car was never  of satisfactory quality due to intermittent problems  
with the stop-start  system in particular, and despite  the work done  on the car this remains 
the case. Mr D says the car has had a problem from the start of the contract with the stop-
start system.
The problems recurred fairly soon after VWFS  had worked on the car in about May 2018,  so 
he returned it to the dealership in July 2018  for inspection and further repair. However, no 
new or recurring fault with the system could be found by the dealership.
Ref: DRN55435173In August  2018,  and with Mr D still unhappy,  VWFS  instructed a further  diagnostic  report.  
This report again found no problem with the stop-start  system.  But it also acknowledged that
Mr D had said the fault was intermittent, and found new fault codes that it suggested should 
be investigated. That report  was based on a short test-drive of about  6.6 miles. In 
September 2018, Mr D had his own diagnostic test done which did reveal error codes.
It isnt in dispute that a fault was found  with the stop-start system in May/June 2018 and that 
that there  was an attempt  to repair this. I conclude in the circumstances these faults meant 
the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. But VWFS did try to put this right. In 
essence, what I need to decide  here is whether that repair was successful, and if it wasnt  
what VWFS should now have to do to put matters right and/or fairly compensate Mr D.
I accept that the last diagnostic report commissioned  by VWFS in August 2018  says no fault 
with the stop-start  system could be found.  But Mr D has been  able to provide video evidence 
of a fault both before  and after the date of this report. Given this video evidence, and given 
that the report commissioned by VWFS  was based on a road-test of only 6.6 miles, even 
though the fault was intermittent, I find that on the balance of probabilities  Mr D is still 
experiencing problems with this system  and the repair of May/June 2018  wasnt successful.
Whilst his own diagnostic  test in September 2018 did not in itself conclusively evidence the
stop-start problem,  it did reveal error codes.
Ive had regard  to the great care and detail with which Mr D (who appears very 
knowledgeable about cars) has logged his evidence.  Taking  video evidence  of such a 
problem is not without risk for the driver who takes  the trouble to record it, and this reinforces 
my belief in Mr Ds honesty on this key issue.
Given that Ive found, on balance,  that the problem with the stop-start system is still in 
existence; that its a fault that makes  the car not of satisfactory quality in the circumstances; 
and the May/June 2018 repair failed to fix it; I now turn my attention  to what  VWFS should 
do to put matters right and/or fairly compensate Mr D.
Taking everything into account,  I find that the fairest remedy would be for Mr D to now be 
able to reject  the car with nothing further to pay, and for VWFS to refund his deposit (with 
interest). I see no point  in dragging this matter out further by affording  VWFS  an additional 
opportunity to repair the problem.
Our investigator spoke  to both Mr D and VWFS to clarify the precise amount of deposit  paid 
by Mr D. There appears to be agreement that the correct figure is in fact only £251. The rest 
of the advance payment of over £4,000 was, in reality, a dealer contribution which went  
(perhaps notionally) in part towards various ancillary  car-related insurance products. Some  
of it was also, confusingly,  described as being  for part exchange, but in reality, there was no 
part exchange vehicle,  as both Mr D and VWFS accept. The relevant deposit  is in my view 
therefore £251.
In its response to our investigators view, VWFS  also said that it seems  unfair  that Mr D 
should have the benefit of a full deposit  return given the significant mileage he has covered. I 
understand the point its making  here. And Mr D has himself very reasonably said that he 
accepts that he should  pay the Excess Mileage charge. I agree that it is fair and reasonable 
he should.
Ref: DRN55435174Mr D had recently done 2,313  excess  miles.  The excess  mileage  charge is 7.2p a mile. So 
that charge is £166.37. The actual figure will of course be more at the point  the vehicle is 
collected, and so that figure should be adjusted accordingly then.
As I have already  said, Im satisfied that the cars stop-start system has had an intermittent 
but serious fault from the point of supply. The fault has never really been resolved, which 
means I can conclude that the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied.  Whilst the 
fault only occurs occasionally, I accept that it must  at times be unnerving  for Mr D.
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Ds anxiety.  However,  I havent seen  enough evidence  from Mr D 
that such issues can primarily  or mainly be blamed on this matter.  The doctors letter  which 
Mr D has provided is only disclosed in part. I also note that Mr Ds made  heavy usage of this 
vehicle for reasons of work. So it doesnt  seem hes been significantly prevented  from 
working as a result of anxiety, if at all. Mr Ds also accepted that he could have disabled the 
start-stop feature,  but he chose not to because of the fuel-efficiency advantages of engaging 
it.
But I do accept that the whole process of complaining has caused  trouble and upset to Mr D, 
and so Im making  an additional award of £100  compensation  to reflect  that.
Mr D stated that hes not seeking repayment of anything he may yet have to pay for his
September 2018 diagnostic report, and so Im not making any order with regard to that.
my final decision
My final decision is that to resolve this complaint, Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited must:
1. end the agreement with nothing  further to pay;
2. collect the car at no cost to Mr D;
3. refund Mr Ds deposit of £251;
4. remove the finance  agreement from Mr Ds credit  file; and
5. pay £100 for distress  and inconvenience.
Item 3 is subject to 8% simple interest per year the interest to run from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. The Excess Mileage charge  (based  on 7.2pm a mile) should be 
deducted from this repayment of the deposit based on the actual mileage at the point the car 
is collected.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) Limited to take off 
tax from this interest. Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Satnam Virdi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5543517