K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr B bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card. Mr B says 
he applied  for the card over the phone,  but Canada Square says it was taken out online. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasons  below.
 Mr B says he applied for his credit card over the phone, and that he was told he 
wouldnt get the card if he didnt take the PPI. So he considers Egg didnt give him a 
proper choice about buying  the cover.
Egg has provided evidence to show that the card application was made  online.  Ive 
also seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application process where  
PPI wouldve  been offered  to Mr B. This shows that he wouldve had to choose 
whether he wanted  PPI or not before he could continue with his application.
I accept that its possible  Mr Bs online application  was made  during a phone call he 
had with Egg. But even if thats the case,  the difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what 
was discussed  between Mr B and Egg at the time. Im also mindful that these events 
took place many years ago.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has told me. But having done  so, I havent been 
able to safely conclude  that Egg didnt make Mr B aware that the PPI was optional.  
 Egg didnt recommend the policy to Mr B so it didnt have to check if he needed  it or 
whether it was suitable for him.  
 Its possible the information Egg gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mr B wouldve been  affected  by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover. The policy was also competitively priced  and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ref: DRN56694002But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr B about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5669400