K820x#14complaint
Mrs O is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited declined a claim on her home  
insurance policy.
background
Mrs O noticed a leak coming through a bedroom  ceiling. So she contacted  Lloyds to make  a 
claim on her home insurance.  The cause  of the damage wasnt  clear. And Lloyds said there 
hadnt been any storms reported.  But she might  be covered for a one-off event. So Lloyds 
suggested she ask a roofer to have a look to find out whatd caused the damage. 
Mrs O said she decided to get the roof fixed herself.  She had a family and needed  the work 
doing quickly because  the weather was very bad. There seemed very little difference  
between the cost of the temporary  repairs and a full repair. Mrs O said Lloyds told her during 
a telephone call she could get the work  done. And they kept changing the date for coming  to 
inspect the damage. But now shes had the roof fixed Lloyds said it wont  pay for the repairs. 
So Mrs O wants  Lloyds to honour her claim.
Lloyds apologised  for any upset or inconvenience caused. Mrs O had been in touch to report 
a problem with her home. She called back five days later to say a roofer  had confirmed 
damage to the roof. Mrs O thought she mightve  accidentally damaged  it herself. And 
although she thought shed fixed the problem a leak had developed. 
Lloyds said Mrs O agreed to forward the information for assessment. And she was advised 
to carry out temporary  repairs  so it could appoint a surveyor to attend her home. Lloyds  said 
it would  cover the costs  of the temporary repairs if the claim was accepted.  But she was 
explicitly told not to carry our full repairs. Although Mrs O said shed been authorised by 
Lloyds to get the work completed, Lloyds reviewed  every conversation and confirmed that 
wasnt the case. And itd declined the claim because Mrs O had carried out all the works 
before it could attend and inspect the property.
Mrs O wasnt  satisfied with Lloydss response. So she contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He listened to the calls between Mrs O and Lloyds. And 
he couldnt say Mrs O was told to get the work done. He looked  at the policy  document  and it 
showed Mrs O shouldnt  have fixed the roof until Lloyds had inspected  it or confirmed that 
she could. He could  see Mrs O was concerned  about the time it was taking. But he didnt 
think thered been  any unnecessary delays. And Lloyds had mentioned temporary repairs in 
the meantime.  So he didnt think Lloyds had acted unreasonably in declining  the claim.  And 
he wouldnt  ask them to do anything else.
Mrs O didnt agree. So shes  asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. She was worried  the 
ceiling might fall in. So shed done  what anyone else wouldve done. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O had a leak that was causing damage to a bedroom. It mustve been  very worrying as 
it was taking place  during  a period of bad weather. Mrs O had a young family to take care of 
and she was concerned the ceiling might fall in. 
Ref: DRN54368472Although the roof has now been repaired Lloyds has declined to accept Mrs Os claim. So 
Ive looked very carefully at everything thats happened.
At first it wasnt clear  whatd caused the problem. Although the weather was poor there 
werent any storms reported in the area.  But Lloyds  said the damage might  be covered for a 
one-off event such as a branch knocking  a tile out of place. And it recommended  a qualified 
firm who could assess the damage  to see if it was covered by the home insurance policy.
Mrs O called a roofer who said some slabs had been dislodged. Mrs O told Lloyds shed 
been on the roof recently to retrieve something and mustve knocked some  slabs out of 
place. Lloyds said it could  look at accidental damage which  was covered on the policy.  So it 
provided an email address so the roofer could  send the report for Lloyds to consider. Lloyds 
explained it would move things on quickly once it got the report. But if it felt the quote was 
too high it would send its own people out to look at the damage first. 
When Mrs O called again she told Lloyds  she was concerned because she had children  in 
the house. She didnt think things were moving quickly enough.  Lloyds called her back to say 
it had only just received  the roofers report but it would be back in touch within  three days. 
Mrs O was worried about further damage  being caused. So Lloyds suggested  the roofer 
could make temporary repairs. And it would cover their cost if the claim was accepted.
Mrs O said the roofer  had told her there  was no such thing as temporary repairs.  And shed 
been told a temporary  fix would  probably cost about  the same  as a full repair.  Lloyds 
responded that putting something in place like tarpaulin would be appropriate on a 
temporary basis to protect against  further  damage.
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs O and Lloyds.  And I think  Lloyds make it clear
Mrs O should hold back on the repair work  until it could speak to the roofer  and confirm the 
damage was covered.  But when it asked to send  its own specialist to look at the problem 
Lloyds discovered  Mrs O had already had the repairs completed. I appreciate how stressful  
this mustve been for Mrs O. But Ive not been  able to find any suggestion during the calls 
where Lloyds said it was okay to go ahead and repair the roof.
The home insurance policy document states the policy  holder  should take any immediate 
action that is reasonably  required  to protect  the property and belongings from further 
damage or loss. And theres a 24-hour emergency home-line number to contact for 
emergency repairs including damaged  roofs. Under the section how to claim the policy 
states its okay to go ahead with any urgent repairs to prevent further damage  but to give 
Lloyds a call before you repair anything else. This was confirmed to Mrs O during her calls.  
She could  carry out temporary repairs if needed.  But Lloyds had to assess whether the claim 
was covered before any other repairs  could  be authorised. 
I understand when  Lloyds  got the report there  werent any photographs of the damage.  So I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Lloyds to want to speak to the roofer and then send its 
own specialist to see whatd happened.
The policy also says under proof  of loss or damage  do not throw away  any damaged  
items before we have had a chance to see them, or carry out any non-emergency repairs  
before we have  had the chance to inspect them. So I think  it shouldve been  clear from both 
the telephone calls and the policy document that Lloyds needed to confirm  if the damage 
had been caused by an insurable event before any repair work could be carried out.
Ref: DRN54368473I know Mrs O was concerned it was taking too long. But based on everything  Ive seen I 
dont think there were any unnecessary delays. Lloyds had to wait to receive the roofers 
report before  it could assess whether the damage was covered by the home  insurance  
policy. And itd told Mrs O it might need  to send its own specialists to have a look. 
Unfortunately Mrs O carried  out the repairs before  Lloyds was able to assess  the damage 
itself. So Lloyds wasnt able to check if the damage was the result of an insured event. And it 
wasnt able to assess the actual damage or the cost of repairs. I know Mrs O didnt want to 
pay for temporary repairs and then have to pay again for the full repair. But Lloyds did 
explain it would cover the temporary  costs if the claim was accepted.
I think Lloyds also made  it clear that Mrs O shouldnt  go ahead  with other repairs before 
Lloyds confirmed she could do so. Mrs O agreed to the terms of the home insurance policy. 
And the policy makes  it clear that Lloyds  needs  to be able to inspect damage and carry out 
its own assessment before it can consider  whether  a claim is covered by the policy.
I know Mrs O will be unhappy with this decision. But I cant  say Lloyds acted  unfairly when it 
declined her claim for damage to the roof. The roof had been repaired before Lloyds had the 
chance to check  whatd caused  the problem or how much damage had taken place.
Based on what Ive seen  I cant say Lloyds has acted  unfairly  or unreasonably  in declining  
Mrs Os claim. Theyve acted in line with the terms of the home insurance policy.  And I wont 
be asking them to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5436847