K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss H bought the policy in 1998  at the same time as taking a credit card.  From what she 
has told us, she applied  for the card and PPI at a meeting in a branch.
Miss H worked at the time as an account director and had been  in that employment for a 
little over two years.  She cant recall  her work benefits, but based on her length of service  I 
think its likely she was entitled to statutory pay for sickness  and redundancy. Miss H says 
she had savings or insurance  worth three to six months pay but she cant give us any other 
details of this. From  what she has told us, Miss H was in good  health at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, as well as life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay 10% of Miss Hs card balance in the 
event of a successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim. At the time the policy cost 
77p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance and the premium  did attract interest. 
Lloyds says the premium  would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim. The 
life cover would, subject to its terms, clear  the card balance  on death.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show the credit card account closed in 2005. 
Miss Hs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Miss Hs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss H wouldnt have taken 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Miss Hs representatives believe there to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Miss H about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss H and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and 
The information Miss H received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators  
Ref: DRN58371952opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Hs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN58371953Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Miss H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Miss H sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss H suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss H and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss H know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Miss H says she had no interest  in PPI and 
says it was added as part of the package with her card. 
But the credit card application  form had a box to tick if PPI was wanted. On Miss Hs form, 
which she signed to take the card, this box is ticked  and I think  its apparent  that if PPI 
wasnt wanted the box for it should  be left unticked.  Also theres nothing on the form saying 
that the PPI had to be taken or that Miss H had to tick for the cover  if she didnt want it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss H knew the policy  was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
Ref: DRN58371954did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Miss H says Lloyds  didnt give advice. But if 
Lloyds did give advice,  Lloyds had to do more. With this in mind, I think its fair to proceed on 
the basis that Lloyds gave  advice  during  the sale. This means Lloyds had to advise Miss H 
with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable 
given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss H. There is no record of what  the adviser discussed in relation  to 
the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some 
limited information about  Miss Hs financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific  evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Miss H would have been caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
her needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Miss H had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss H given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss H, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss H met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss H had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Miss Hs ability to continue to meet  
her credit  card repayments  would have been  put under strain if she were not working for 
an extended period of time  even  allowing for the statutory sickness  and redundancy 
pay she wouldve been entitled  to and the insurance or savings she says she had. 
-Miss H hasnt been able to give us detail about  any other  insurance  she had. So, based 
on what I have, I havent any evidence to suggest  that the PPI benefit  wouldve reduced 
any benefit Miss H was entitled to receive  from any other insurance  she held.
-Although Miss H says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Miss Hs circumstances.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss H. There  was 
nothing about  Miss Hs employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  for 
her to claim. And she hasnt told us of any pre-existing  medical conditions  that couldve 
affected her ability to claim. Also, from what Ive seen of the policy terms, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the policy had additional restrictions on cover for mental  health or 
back problems.
Ref: DRN58371955Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Miss H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss H was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Miss H would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Miss H would have taken the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. Im also satisfied she would have  realised the policy 
wasnt free and its likely she would have had some  understanding of how much the policy 
cost before agreeing to take it.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss H 
agreed to take the policy. Even  if that information  were in a leaflet or policy summary Miss H 
might have been given, I think its more  likely  than not that she based  her decision on the 
things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Miss H, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Miss H. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Miss H all the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Hs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss Hs representative considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss H about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
Ref: DRN58371956claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss H has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either.
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Miss H? To what extent did Miss H 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss H 
would have still taken  the policy, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Miss H, Ive found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Miss H wouldve acted  differently, or whether she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Miss H says she would  not have  taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  I have considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Miss H had some  interest  in taking  out PPI. By this I 
mean when  Lloyds offered the PPI or advised her there was a suitable product she could 
buy that would protect  her card payments in the event  she was unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that product. But she made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she thought she was getting is 
not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Hs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss H ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear the on-going cost information.
So while Miss H didnt  know  some  things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful 
claim was not dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  
she based her decision  to take the policy on and found acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN58371957The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions occurring in the first twelve  
months that Miss H knew or shouldve known about  at the start or for which she had 
seen or arranged to see a medical  practitioner  in the 12 months before the policy  start;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss H 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
Disability cover  would end when Miss H reached  age 65 and unemployment cover would 
end when she reached age 65 or retired from work or started to receive a state pension.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Miss H pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss H from taking  the policy.
But the evidence  about Miss Hs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Miss H 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So I think she still had some good  
reasons to take the policy.
From what  Ive seen, theres  nothing  to suggest  the policy excluded back or mental  health  
conditions or placed  any additional restrictions or more onerous evidential  requirements in 
the event of a claim on those grounds than would  have  applied to any other disability claim. 
And I think its unlikely Miss H would have  expected  to make a disability claim on the policy  
without first providing some evidence  to support that claim. 
Its likely  to make a disability claim Miss H wouldve needed to be totally unable  to do her 
normal job and not doing any other work.  I dont  think this is likely to be too different to what  
she wouldve expected.  After all, the policy was cover in case  of accident, sickness or 
unemployment, so it seems unlikely Miss H wouldve thought shed be able to make a 
successful claim  if she were still working,  whether that be in her normal  job or any other job.
Miss H has complained that during  the term of the policy she would not have been able to 
claim because  she would  have been ineligible due to reaching the age of 75. But she was in 
her forties when she took the PPI. So although  some of the cover wouldve ended  when she 
turned 65 (or earlier  if she retired or started receiving state pension earlier), I think its likely 
Miss H wouldve still thought shed get some value from the PPI - as it would have  covered 
her for a reasonable  period of time before any of the cover  ended. The credit agreement in 
fact ended, together with the policy, well before  Miss H reached age 60.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Miss H would still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  she 
thought she was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult  time, 
notwithstanding her statutory work benefits and other means.  And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken the policy  in any event.
Miss Hs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN58371958That guidance is for firms  but it is a relevant  consideration,  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss H would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Miss H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible Miss H wouldnt have taken the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Miss H compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done.
Im also aware that Miss H thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Miss H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Hs representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss H and about the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss H in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN58371959my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2020. 
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5837195