K821x#15complaint
Mr L and Ms C are unhappy with the way a claim under their home insurance policy has 
been handled by Allianz Insurance  Plc.
 
background
In August  2017  when Mr L and Ms C returned  home from holiday,  they found  part of their 
heating system appeared to have caught fire and their electrical system wasnt working. 
They say they contacted  Allianz but it wasnt  able to deal with their claim at the weekend,  so 
they arranged  for an emergency electrician to disconnect their boiler, solar panel, air 
recovery system  and underfloor heating. 
They made a claim to Allianz.  It said it tried to contact Mr L and Ms Cs electrician to confirm 
what the cause  of damage  was. On the basis of photos sent in by Mr L and Ms C it said it 
didnt look as though thered been a fire and the electrical box might  have just burnt  out. It 
said that wouldnt be covered by their policy.
As Mr L and Ms C werent happy with the decision to decline their claim, Allianz appointed a 
loss adjuster to investigate. It then accepted the claim and arranged for the property to be 
repaired.
In November 2017 Allianzs  claims  handler  sent Ms C £150 in compensation for service 
issues. Mr L and Ms C werent happy with this. They said over 14 weeks  later their property 
still hadnt been repaired and theyd had to buy several electric heaters to keep  their home 
warm. They said they still had no proper heating.  Their solar panels  and heat recovery  
system were still off-line. Theyd also had to chase Allianz and its suppliers constantly to get 
anything done.
Mr L and Ms C complained to this service. Our adjudicator upheld  their complaint. He didnt 
think that the claim had been handled well by Allianz. He thought  Allianz should pay a further 
£500 and complete the repairs as soon as possible.
As Allianz  didnt agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm that in this decision I can only look at how Allianz handled their claim up to the point 
in November 2017 when it issued its final response on Mr L and Ms Cs complaint. If 
Mr L and Ms C remain unhappy with the way Allianz has handled their claim since then, 
theyll need to make another complaint to Allianz and if that isnt resolved to their 
satisfaction, bring another complaint to this service.
The failings on the part of Allianz  seem  to me to fall into two parts.  Firstly theres what  
happened at the start of the claim when Allianz  couldnt  process  the claim or send an 
emergency electrician  because it was the weekend. Later it also incorrectly  declined the 
claim on the basis of photos  from Mr L and Ms Cs electrician without inspecting the damage 
itself at that stage.
Ref: DRN50514752Secondly there were  its delays in getting the property repaired.  That meant for about three 
months Mr L and Ms C had no heating, limited electricity and their hot water was heated  by 
an immersion  heater  which increased  their electricity bill.
Allianz says Mr L and Ms C have  a complicated  heating system which  has required 
intervention from a number of specialists. I agree thats the case  but unfortunately for 
Mr L and Ms C, Allianz doesnt  appear to have realised this at the outset. As a result they 
sent trades people who werent familiar with the systems and that led to unnecessary delays.
In my opinion,  the poor claim handling  and delays have caused  Mr L and Ms C unnecessary 
trouble and upset.  For example, theyve had the stress and disappointment  of their claim 
being unfairly declined. Then theyve had to spend  time chasing  Allianz  and its suppliers and 
had no central heating for a prolonged period of time. Our adjudicator recommended that 
Allianz should pay them a further £500 compensation (on top of the £150 already offered) 
and I think this sufficiently reflects the effect the poor claim handling had on them.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr L and Ms C are still having problems with their claim. I agree with 
our adjudicator that Allianz should  complete the work as soon as possible and in accordance  
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Allianz Insurance Plc to do the following:
pay Mr L and Ms C a further  £500 compensation; and
complete the outstanding works to Mr L and Ms Cs property as soon as possible and in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5051475