K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that the vehicle he acquired  on a hire agreement financed  by Lex Autolease  
Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. He doesnt think the offer of £150 compensation it made 
after the agreement  was terminated  is sufficient  and wants it increased.
background
Mr D tells us he had numerous problems with the vehicle from the outset. These  included  
the front windows  not working  properly; faults  with parking sensors  and the phone system  
cutting out regularly. He says hes spent  several  hours trying to get Lex to put things right. 
And he states he was charged for the vehicle even for several days when he couldnt use it. 
He thinks a more  reasonable  figure  for compensation would be something over £1,400.
Lex told us the vehicle had been independently inspected by a company Ill refer to as A. It 
said that A had found various  faults as a result  of which Lex had agreed  to terminate the 
agreement and allow Mr D to reject  the vehicle. It said it had further agreed to refund  any 
unused portion of his initial rental payment and pay Mr D £150 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She thought that the level of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  should be increased  to £200 and Mr D should 
also receive a refund  of rent when he was unable to use the vehicle. She calculated this at 
£92.43.
Neither party agreed with the adjudicators views. Lex said it felt the offer it had made was 
fair. Mr D said hed spent a lot of personal  time chasing up the complaint with Lex as well as 
the stress  this had caused. And hes since told us hes incurred  extra expense due to having 
to take taxis to commute.
As its not been  possible to resolve  this complaint  an ombudsmans been asked to make  the 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr D experienced such problems with this vehicle and I accept this is not what 
he expected when he hired  a new vehicle.
As Lex has accepted  Mr Ds rejection of the vehicle Im not required to determine if the 
vehicle was of satisfactory  quality  when supplied. Im only being asked to decide  if the offer 
of compensation  subsequently made by Lex was fair and reasonable 
I think it might be helpful if I outlined our general  approach to awards  of compensation. I 
hope it will further explain why Ive reached my decision. Compensation can be broadly 
classified as falling into two categories. Firstly, if a business is at fault and a consumer 
suffers an actual and foreseeable loss directly as a result of this then we may look to the 
business to make up that loss. A good example here is the compensation paid by Lex - 
which Ill refer to later - in respect of a damaged  tyre where it refunded  the cost of a 
replacement.
Ref: DRN53551662And we also consider awards for the distress  and inconvenience caused to the consumer in 
the particular circumstances.  I should emphasise that awards  of compensation are not 
meant to punish a business. Nor are they calculated in accordance with what a consumer 
might expect his time to be remunerated at in his employment. Anyone  who chooses to 
make a complaint  might reasonably expect to have to devote time to it in order to try and 
achieve a satisfactory  outcome.
I note that following a complaint received from Mr D on 22 August 2018, Lex arranged to 
have the vehicle inspected on 13 September 2018.  And it had agreed to accept termination 
of the agreement and the return  of the vehicle by the end of October 2018. I consider this to 
be a timely  performance  of its responsibilities  by Lex. Particularly so considering it wouldve 
been entitled to take up to eight weeks simply to respond to the complaint.
It also treated Mr Ds request to reject the vehicle fairly and promptly. After  the vehicle had 
seemingly been  repaired, Mr D reported  the phone system was still faulty. Lex agreed to 
terminate the agreement and this arrangement was put in place in accordance  with Mr Ds 
wishes.
Turning to specific issues of compensation. I can see that Lex agreed to pay for the 
replacement of a tyre damaged during the vehicle inspection. And its also refunded an 
insurance cancellation charge. So I think I think it acted  fairly in doing so.
I wasnt called upon to decide  if the repairs to the phone system had failed. But it seems 
probable that this was the case.  And if so, it would seemingly have given Mr D the right to 
reject the vehicle even  if Lex hadnt  already agreed. In those  circumstances Id have only 
expected Mr D to be charged for the period he had use of the vehicle. And that wouldve 
included charging  any period of less than one month on a pro rata basis.  The final rental bill 
included a period up to 7 November 2018  - but the vehicle was collected on 30 October.
So whilst I understand Lex doesnt  normally refund part credits I think  it should  do so here.
In terms of the recommended award for distress and inconvenience I cant agree with Mr D 
that the basis of compensation  should  be his normal hourly rate of pay. Nor do I think  his 
assessment that the impact of the faulty  phone system justifies over £600 compensation is 
realistic. A phone connection  within the vehicle is a useful accessory - but to suggest its loss 
amounted to 40% impaired use is not - in my opinion - sustainable. 
I also dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to award the additional cost of taxi fares that 
Mr D has claimed.  Hed incur  expense if the vehicle was still subject of hire and its 
reasonable to infer he wouldve  known that in terminating  the agreement  there  was likely to 
be a delay in finding a replacement. Whilst Mr Ds particular employment situation might  
involve travel to different  sites in one day, and make  public transport impractical,  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Lex wouldve been  aware  of this at the time of hire. And so I dont 
think any loss occasioned as a result of this is reasonably foreseeable.
I understand that making any complaint is likely to involve some  degree of stress.  But I 
havent seen anything which would make me think that Lexs handling of this complaint had 
done anything  to increase  this beyond that which might reasonably be anticipated.  I think, 
viewed overall, the adjudicators recommendation of £200  was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN53551663In summary,  I uphold the complaint but as Ive explained, Ive reached  a similar outcome in 
terms of the award  of compensation to that of the adjudicator and for much the same 
reasons. It is of course  entirely a matter for Mr D whether  he accepts this or not. But 
irrespective of his choice my decision brings to an end the involvement of this service.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my final decision is Im upholding  this complaint. 
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I now require Lex Autolease Ltd to take the 
following action:
1.Refund £92.43 being the pro rata cost of unused monthly rental  charges. And pay 
simple interest at 8% per annum from date of payment  to date of settlement;
2.Pay £200 to Mr D for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5355166