K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains about the redress methodology used by National Westminster  Bank Plc 
(the business). 
Shes not sure if the businesss redress is correct. 
background
In 2007, Miss R was advised to invest in the Balanced (Accumulation) Fund.  She 
surrendered the investment in early  2013.  
The business upheld  Miss Rs complaint about  the suitability of the investment. In summary, 
it said:
Because of Miss Rs circumstances  at the time  she was a first time no risk investor  
 the investment risk was too high. 
It calculated redress by comparing the value of Miss Rs actual investment with the 
return she couldve obtained if shed been advised correctly.
Using the Bank of England (BoE) Average  Fixed Rates Bond as a bench mark, it 
offered Miss R £2,179.82 compensation. 
This would place Miss R in the position she would  be in but for the incorrect advice.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Because the business upheld the complaint she didnt need to look at the suitability 
of the advice, instead she would  only consider  the redress.  
The point  of redress is to put the consumer in the position they wouldve been in had 
they not been given  the incorrect  advice. 
She was satisfied that if Miss R had received the correct  advice  she wouldve 
invested differently  but its difficult to say precisely what she wouldve done. 
Because Miss R wanted to achieve a reasonable return without taking a risk, the 
business used  the BoE average fixed rate bond as the benchmark,  plus 8% simple  
interest, which was reasonable, and in line with what our organisation would  do in the 
circumstances. 
Miss Rs asked for an ombudsmans decision. Shes  concerned  about  possible fees and 
charges that business mightve incorrectly charged. She feels she shouldve  received a 
greater value from her investment, but for the penalties and charges shes probably had to 
pay. Shes also concerned about the Payment Protection Insurance deadline had passed.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN52532402On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business redress  
methodology is fair and reasonable.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Miss Rs strength of feeling about  this matter. 
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Miss R and the business,  and reach what I 
think is an independent,  fair and reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
The business upheld  the complaint about  the suitability of the advice and I think  it was right 
to. It said that the recommendation  wasnt suitable on the basis  that Miss R was a no-risk 
investor, which I also think was correct. 
The business offered redress using the BoE average fixed rate bond benchmark  which  is 
similar to what  we would use when calculating redress for a consumer that wasnt  willing to 
take a risk with their investment. 
The business compared the value  of Miss Rs actual investment with the value a no-risk 
investment using the BoE average  fixed rate bond benchmark. Having done this it found that 
Miss R suffered a loss, so has offered to pay the loss with 8% simple.  In this case  Im 
satisfied its approach was reasonable, and its methodology in line with how our service 
would generally  calculate redress.   
I understand that Miss R accepted the offer of redress, but having done  so is still concerned 
about the potential charges, penalties and fees that mightve been applied  to the investment. 
But I dont think Miss R received a penalty  for surrendering her investment. I note that this 
was an open ended  investment, so she hadnt surrendered  the investment early  as such, 
and wouldnt  have  been penalised for this. In other words she wouldnt have had to pay a 
penalty. 
I also note Miss R is concerned that she wouldve been charged  fees for making 
withdrawals. But the business has confirmed that she wasnt  charged any fees for making 
withdrawals. And it said it wouldnt charge any fees for unit-linked investments anyway. 
So having  seen a copy of the transaction history, and considered  what  the business  has 
said, I understand that Miss R wasnt charged fees for any withdrawals or the surrender. 
Therefore Im unable  to say the business has done anything wrong. 
Having also seen a copy of a key features document (not the exact one but one similar to 
the one Miss R wouldve been provided) Im satisfied  that the charges that did apply were  
Ref: DRN52532403made reasonably clear,  and that they dont include charges for withdrawals or surrender. 
Therefore Im unable  to say that the business has done anything wrong in the circumstances 
other than the initial unsuitable advice for which its offered redress.  
Im mindful of Miss Rs comments about  PPI, but PPI doesnt apply to this investment, its a 
different product altogether.   
I appreciate Mr R will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants  to hear. Whilst I appreciate  her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer made by National Westminster Bank Plc is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5253240