K821x#15Mr O complains PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender lent him money  he couldnt 
afford to repay. He wants  a refund of interest and charges applied  to the loans.
background
Mr O took out four loans with Mr Lender between  December 2012 and April 2014.  Mr O says 
that if Mr Lender had carried out adequate  checks,  it wouldve seen that he was reliant on 
payday lending  and couldnt afford to repay the loans.
Mr O borrowed  £150 in December 2012,  £400  in March 2013,  £300 in December 2013  and 
£400 in April 2014. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Os complaint be upheld in part. He thought it was 
reasonable of Mr Lender to agree loan one based  on checking Mr Os monthly income.  The 
adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender carried out adequate checks  before agreeing  loans two to 
four. 
The adjudicator thought  Mr Lender  shouldve asked Mr O about his income and expenses,  
including any regular  and short term financial commitments before agreeing  loan two. By 
loans three  and four, the adjudicator thought that Mr Lender  shouldve carried  out a 
comprehensive check of Mr Os finances.
The adjudicator thought  that if Mr Lender  had carried out better  checks, it wouldve realised 
that loan four wasnt affordable.
The adjudicator asked Mr Lender to refund interest and charges and pay interest on the 
refund. He also recommended that Mr Lender remove  any negative  information about loan 
four from Mr Os credit file.
Mr Lender doesnt agree  with this recommendation. It says its checks  were proportionate. 
Mr Lender says the credit check didnt  show anything  of concern. It points out that Mr O said 
he was living  at home and didnt contribute  to any priority bills leaving him with a disposable 
monthly income of just over £800  as Mr O declared his income to be £1,465 not £1,341 as 
wed seen from Mr Os bank statements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to carry out checks  to make  sure      
Mr O could afford to repay the loan before it lent to him. These checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount borrowed, the repayments and any lending 
history. But there wasnt a set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
loan one
It was early on in Mr Os borrowing relationship  with Mr Lender so there wasnt any history  to 
consider. Mr O asked to borrow £150  that he was then due to repay by two instalments, the 
highest of which was £195.
Ref: DRN51963572Mr O declared  his net monthly  income  to be £1,456.  As the repayment represented a fairly 
modest proportion of this income, I think it was reasonable to agree to lend based on 
knowing Mr Os income.
loan two
Mr Lender expected Mr O to make a second  payment  on loan two that was more  than two 
and half times the amount of his second  payment on loan one. And Mr O had rolled over 
loan one on a number of occasions. I think that this pattern of borrowing shouldve  
reasonably led Mr Lender to ask more questions of Mr O than it did.
I think adequate  checks shouldve included Mr Lender asking Mr O about  his living costs and 
financial commitments  including any other short term loans  to make sure he had enough 
money left to repay the loan in a sustainable  way. As I dont have any evidence  to suggest 
that Mr Lender asked Mr O for this kind of information, I dont consider it carried  out 
adequate checks.
Although I dont consider Mr Lender  carried out proportionate checks, this doesnt 
necessarily mean that I must uphold Mr Os complaint. I would  need  to be persuaded that 
with proportionate checks, Mr Lender wouldve discovered that Mr D couldnt afford the loan. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that even with better checks, it wouldve still been  reasonable for 
Mr Lender to give Mr O loan three.
loans three  and four
Mr O rolled over loan two several  times,  making  his final repayment  in December 2013  
more than 10 months after taking loan two out.
Although Mr O was borrowing less than loan two he asked  for loan three  shortly  after 
repaying loan two. I consider that Mr Lender shouldve  reasonably  had some concerns about  
whether it knew enough  of Mr Os financial situation  to decide whether to lend or not.
Mr Lender has given  us evidence that it asked  Mr O about his monthly expenses before 
agreeing loan three. I dont think this was enough. I consider it was reasonable to expect 
Mr Lender to verify the financial information  that Mr O gave. 
Mr Lender couldve done this in a variety  of ways. As weve  got Mr Os bank statements, Ive 
used these to establish what information its likely  that Mr Lender wouldve seen had it 
carried out the kinds of checks I think were  proportionate.
For loan three, it seems likely that Mr Lender  wouldve still considered  the repayments to be 
affordable for Mr O. This is because he was left with over £550 of disposable  monthly 
income after everyday  living costs  and other  short term lending  commitments.
When Mr O took out loan four his salary was less than Mr Lender recorded.  The adjudicator 
told Mr Lender  that Mr O had regular outgoings  including other  payday  loans of around 
£875. This left Mr O with about £466  of disposable  income  not enough to afford the highest 
repayment on loan four of £508. 
Ref: DRN51963573Ive had a look at Mr Os bank statements and can see at least two other regular payments 
that the adjudicator didnt include. When  I add these to Mr Os outgoings, his disposable  
income is reduced by a further £33. 
I think if Mr Lender  had carried out the level of checks that I think were proportionate, it 
wouldve discovered Mr O couldnt afford  to repay  loan four from his normal income. As a 
responsible lender, I dont think Mr Lender wouldve agreed to lend.  
Mr O has lost out as a result so Mr Lender  should pay him compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, PDL Finance Limited 
trading as Mr Lender should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr O paid on loan four; 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year * on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
Remove any negative  information about loan four from Mr Os credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
It must give Mr O a certificate showing how much  tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5196357