K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs F say Santander  UK Plc (then  Abbey  National) mis-sold  them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs F case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs F so 
Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs F say that the MPPI was never mentioned to them  and that they never 
consented to the policy.  Mr and Mrs F applied for their mortgage  through  a broker   and it 
was around a month after completion that Santander sold them the MPPI. Santander has 
confirmed this sale took place over the phone. 
Due to the time thats passed, theres  no call recording available,  but this isnt unusual  for a 
sale that took place so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
Santander has also provided a copy of the MPPI welcome letter  which sets out the cover 
provided and cost. This was sent to Mr and Mrs Fs home address, which  remains  the same.  
There is also a call record from 2005  stating  customer  called on Abbey letter response line, 
advised policy live.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  Santander made it clear that Mr and 
Mrs F didnt  have to take out the MPPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs F so it had to check that the MPPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs F about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But as I think they chose to take it out - it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs F, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN55827822To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F have said - including what  theyve  said about 
Mr F not making a claim on the policy when he was out of work. They say that had they 
known about the PPI, they would have made a claim and not had to struggle making  
repayments. 
I dont know why Mr F didnt make a claim on the policy  it may be that the policy was no 
longer in place  (it was cancelled in 2008) or Mr F couldve forgotten he had it. But this point 
doesnt change  my decision, and as Ive explained above, I think that at the time the policy  
was sold, Mr and Mrs F were aware of it, and chose to take it. 
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs F any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Santander  should also pay back to Mr and Mrs F any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs F the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Santander 
should also pay Mr and Mrs F 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs F can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5582782