K820x#14complaint
Mr G is complaining that Highway Insurance Company  Limited (Highway)  avoided his 
motorcycle insurance policy.
Mr G is represented by another party  on this complaint. But for the ease of reference,  I shall 
refer to any representations his representative  has made as being made by Mr G.
background
In March 2015 Mr G took out a motorcycle insurance policy through  a comparison website.  
Highway later reviewed Mr Gs claims history and it found one undisclosed claim and one 
claim that it had recorded as a non-fault claim, when in fact it was a fault claim. Highway 
referred this matter to the business who sold the policy who said that Mr G had disclosed the 
non-fault claim as a fault claim, but a mistake had happened in referring the information to 
Highway. 
Highway was satisfied  that Mr G hadnt given  incorrect information about  one of the claims, 
but it said he should have told it about  the other claim. Mr G said that accident was in his 
partners car. And he said he wasnt aware  he had to disclose accidents where he was 
driving a car. 
Highway maintained that Mr G should have disclosed the second claim. And it said it 
wouldnt have insured him had it known about  this claim. So it avoided  his insurance policy 
back to the beginning and refunded the premium  Mr G paid for the policy.
Mr G didnt agree with Highways  decision. He didnt  think the question  was asked clearly 
enough for him to know that he had to disclose claims made on a car insurance policy. He 
also referred to guidelines set out by the Association of British  Insurers  (ABI) which 
recommended that insurers tell the applicants to include claims involving any motor  vehicle  
(including car, motorcycle or van) when asking about their claims history. 
Highway didnt think it had acted unfairly, so Mr G asked this service to step in.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that the ABIs statement was merely  
guidelines and she said Mr G had been  asked to disclose  any accident claim or claim. She 
thought the question was sufficiently clear enough for Mr G to have known that he should  
have disclosed claims involving a car as well as on a motorbike.
Mr G didnt agree and said that when asked to disclose his claims history,  the comparison 
website gave the following options:
Single Vehicle - Rider  Hit Third  Party
Single Vehicle - Rider  Hit By Third Party  
Multiple Vehicle  - Rider Hit Third Party  
Multiple Vehicle  - Rider Hit By Third Party 
Rider Hit By Uninsured Driver
He believes that the wording of these, guided him towards thinking  he only needed  to 
disclose accidents  or claims  that have occurred whilst riding a motorcycle.
Ref: DRN58821432Since then,  Highway has also said that, when  asked to disclose the claims history,  the 
comparison website initially asked did this claim occur on a motorcycle insurance policy.  
So it said that Mr G should  have understood that he needed to disclose claims on his car 
insurance policy from this.
Mr G still didnt agree with the adjudicator  and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint.  And Ill now explain why.
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) Mr G 
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when applying  for his 
insurance policy. And, for Highway to take any action at all, it needs to show Mr G didnt  do 
this and that he made whats  described as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding  whether a 
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the 
consumer was asked.  Mr G took out the insurance policy online which  initially asked:
Please tell us about any accidents,  claims or losses made by you or against you, 
irrespective of fault within the last five years.
Mr G says that he didnt realise that he had to disclose accidents or claims relating to driving 
a car and he only thought he had to disclose those  relating to riding his motorcycle.  Hes 
also referred to guidelines set by the Association of British Insurers which says that 
insurance applicants  dont always understand that what  claims, accidents  or incidents they 
need to disclose  especially when a previous  incident relates  to a different vehicle. And it 
says that insurers/brokers  should  make it clear that applicants need to disclose incidents 
related to any motor  vehicle  i.e. including car, motorcycle and van. I dont disagree with 
this statement. And had Mr G not had to disclose a claim hed made  on a previous 
motorcycle policy Id be inclined to agree with him.
However Im conscious that Mr G did disclose one claim  from the year for an accident while 
riding his motorbike. So Ive looked at what Mr G was asked once he disclosed the claim. 
The website then took him to another page  and Mr G was asked Did this claim occur  on a 
motorcycle insurance policy? Following this the website asked him to Please enter  the 
details of any accidents or claims within the last 5 years, on any vehicle and regardless of 
blame. 
Mr G says that he doesnt remember being  asked  this and hes queried whether this was 
actually the question set, given that Highway couldnt initially  provide copies of what  he was 
asked. He also says that this is what  the website asks now, so he thinks that Highway is 
relying on the questions asked currently, rather than what  it was asking applicants in 
March 2015 when he applied for the policy. But Ive discussed this extensively  with Highway 
and I understand  that only one question has changed on the website application. And thats 
to ask Did this claim occur on your motorcycle insurance policy? Whereas  it previously 
asked if it occurred on a motorcycle insurance policy.  
Ref: DRN58821433So I think, on balance,  I think  its most  likely that Mr G was asked to disclose any accidents  
or claims  hed had in the last five years  on any vehicle. And based on this, he should  have 
disclosed the claim he had while driving  his partners car.
I dont think Mr G did this deliberately and I think it was a simple mistake. But CIDRA would 
consider this to be careless misrepresentation. CIDRA says that Highway could avoid Mr Gs 
insurance policy in these circumstances if it could show that it wouldnt have insured Mr G 
had he disclosed the second claim. Highway has provided its underwriting criteria which  sets 
out what its willing and not willing to cover. And, based on this, Im satisfied  that it wouldnt 
have insured Mr G had it known about  the second  claim.
Mr G has also provided data from the comparison website which he says shows  that he did 
actually disclose the second claim. But this was dated one month after he took out the policy 
and after Highway had avoided the insurance  policy. Highway has provided us with a copy  of 
the information he actually gave when  he applied for the policy in question. And this shows 
that he only disclosed one claim.
So, given what Ive said above, I cant say that Highway  acted  unfairly in avoiding Mr Gs 
insurance policy for misrepresentation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5882143