K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the fee that Wealth  At Work  Limited (Wealth At Work) charged him for 
its recommendation to retain his existing benefits  in an Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS). Mr T says Wealth At Work initially said it would most likely  recommend a transfer but 
he thinks its default position was always not to recommend transferring and says he wouldnt  
have paid the fee if hed have known that to be the case. He wants  the fee to be refunded to 
him.
background
Mr T was a deferred member of the Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS) pension scheme. After 
he received some investment advice from Wealth At Work  he agreed to discuss his OPS  
benefits and the possibility of transferring them  to a personal pension plan. Mr T says he 
was attracted to the idea of paying off his mortgage and other debts and investing  the 
remaining pension fund - as he wanted  to retire early if possible.  
Wealth At Work said it received a letter of authority from Mr T on 12 December and 
approached YBS for information on 18 December 2018. It said Mr T paid a transfer analysis 
fee on 21 December  2018. Thereafter the information was supplied  by YBS on 
14 January 2018  and Wealth  At Work  completed  its report  which concluded that Mr T 
should retain the OPS benefits   on 11 February  2019. 
Mr T, who had expressed some concerns about  the process in December  2018,  complained  
about the recommendation that came out of the report. He said hed been  told initially   on 
two occasions,  that a transfer would be a no brainer. He also said Wealth At Work didnt 
tell him that it would charge him an upfront fee for the work it needed to do and didnt 
suggest its default position was to decline defined benefit transfers. 
Wealth At Work didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint.  It said its pension transfer specialist had 
checked the advice not to transfer  and felt it was correct. The specialist noted the regulators 
guidance that said a defined benefit transfer isnt usually suitable unless it can be 
demonstrated that its in a consumers best interest.  In this case the specialist  thought it 
wasnt in Mr Ts best interest, so he thought  it was right to advise him to retain  his OPS 
benefits and that Wealth  At Work shouldnt have  to refund its analysis fee.
Wealth At Work also said its adviser denied telling Mr T that the transfer would be a no 
brainer and confirmed shed made him aware that Wealth At Work wouldnt proceed  with 
the transfer if it didnt  think it was in his best interests. 
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome so he brought his complaint to us, where  one of our 
adjudicators looked into the matter. 
She said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said there  was no evidence  that 
Wealth At Work had misled  Mr T and she thought hed been informed of the costs  and fees 
before an analysis was carried  out. She also thought there was nothing to suggest 
Wealth At Work had to provide positive advice and thought it had taken Mr Ts objectives 
into consideration when formulating  its recommendation.  
Ref: DRN51138682Mr T didnt  agree with this outcome and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He also 
asked that we listened to the recording of the call he had with Wealth At Works compliance 
officer.  So  the complaints been passed to me for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mr T feels about  this situation. And I have some sympathy for his 
position as he says he was led to believe the transfer was a no brainer but feels 
Wealth At Work had already decided it wasnt going  to advise him to transfer. So he thinks  it 
acted unfairly in charging him £1,200 for its report. But I agree  with the adjudicator  here and 
for largely  the same reasons, which I know is an outcome that will disappoint Mr T -so Ill 
explain my reasoning. 
Ill first deal with Mr Ts assertion that both the adviser and compliance officer  told him that 
the transfer was a no brainer which he says led him to assume  the transfer would go 
ahead. However,  the adviser says she didnt suggest the transfer  would most likely  go ahead 
but simply explained the process while confirming it was possible a transfer might not be 
appropriate but that Wealth At Work would need to carry  out a full transfer  analysis first. 
In cases like this, where  both parties  disagree, I have to decide what  I think  is more  likely to 
have happened, in other words the balance of probability. Im unable  to determine exactly  
what was said between  Mr T and the adviser,  while Wealth  At Work has confirmed the 
telephone conversation between Mr T and its compliance officer  wasnt recorded. So, in 
order to reach a conclusion Ive looked carefully  at Wealth  At Works process  for conducting 
a defined benefit pension transfer. 
Wealth At Work says that it conducts an initial fact find meeting then  if a client  wants  it to 
carry out an analysis,  a pension transfer  specialist will conduct  that analysis separately,  
based on information gathered from Mr T and the OPS. It would then send a 
recommendation to the client as to whether a transfer is in their best interest. A second 
meeting, to discuss the recommendation,  is then arranged. 
So while I dont dispute Mr Ts recollections of events, Wealth At Work simply wasnt in a 
position to make any judgements about  the viability of the transfer  when it first spoke to him. 
And by explaining its process Mr T ought  to have understood  that any initial  comments 
Wealth At Work might have made  about  the justification of the transfer were without 
foundation or merit. On balance I think Wealth At Work made Mr T reasonably aware that its 
process required analysis  to be carried out before a definitive  recommendation  could be 
made.  
When Mr T engaged Wealth At Work  it would have provided him with information about  its 
services and costs. That document explained  that it would be engaged to analyse and 
compare the benefits likely to be paid under a defined benefits pension scheme with the 
benefits afforded by a personal  pension scheme. 
It continued to explain  that We will produce  a suitability report  setting  out our 
recommendation to either transfer or retain the benefits of the ceding scheme.  So I think  
Ref: DRN51138683Wealth At Work made it clear that no decision about the suitability of a transfer could be 
made until the analysis  and report had been  completed.
And I think Wealth At Work was also clear in the way it would charge Mr T within  the same 
document as it stated  you will pay us a fee of £1,000 plus VAT for defined benefits scheme 
analysis and transfer advice.The fee will be paid before beginning workThe  fee is non-
refundable irrespective of the final recommendation. So I think  Mr T was made aware of 
how much  and at what point Wealth At Work would charge him. The subsequent transfer 
analysis report also confirmed the initial fee of £1,000 plus VAT,  which  it said Mr T had 
already paid and as the recommendation is not to use our service at this time there are no 
further fees. 
Mr T says that if hed been  told that Wealth At Work werent going to recommend the 
transfer of his pension when he first spoke with the adviser then he wouldnt have gone 
through with the analysis. But I dont think Wealth At Work knew its recommendation was 
going to be that Mr T should retain  his OPS benefits  until it completed the analysis. Ive 
looked very closely at the report Wealth At Work  compiled and I can see the number  of 
various tests it ran to determine if the transfer  was in Mr Ts best interest. Some  of these 
factors, which were related to Mr Ts goals  and objectives, suggested it would be in his 
interests to transfer. 
But overall, Wealth At Work calculated that it would cost an extra  £139,565 to provide the 
same benefits from a personal pension than from the OPS.  And for a joint life pension  
which Mr T later said was important to him due to Mrs Ts lack of pension provision  the 
critical yield required to match the scheme benefits was 10.3 and 7.2% with or without  the 
tax free cash.  This was seen to be high and would  likely require taking more risk than Mr T 
was prepared to take in order to try to at least match the OPS  benefits. 
Wealth At Work concluded  that it was unlikely the transfer would be in Mr Ts best interests  
as he was likely to be worse off, and I think it was reasonable for Wealth At Work  to adopt 
that position. As the regulator has previously outlined When advising a retail client  who is, 
or is eligible to be, a member of a defined  benefits  occupational pension scheme or other 
scheme with safeguarded benefits  whether  to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start 
by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or opt-out  will not be suitable. A firm should only 
then consider a transfer, conversion  or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly  demonstrate,  on 
contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests. 
This starting  point meant that the adviser  needed  to show  why it was right for Mr T to 
transfer from his OPS and give reasons for transferring. There needed  to be a reasonable 
prospect that Mr T would be better  off in retirement as well as satisfying the other reasons 
that were given to consider the transfer. There was no advantage in transferring if the 
benefits were likely to be similar  or worse  in value. 
In this case Wealth At Work  wasnt  satisfied that Mr T would be better  off, which  I dont think  
was an unreasonable conclusion to draw, and I dont think  Wealth  At Work could possibly 
have drawn this conclusion without the full and in depth analysis it completed.
Mr T says he believes that Wealth At Works  position, in not recommending  defined benefit 
transfers, is because  of its lack of professional  indemnity insurance cover for that particular 
area of advice. Ive not been  presented with any evidence to suggest thats the position.  But 
in any case even if Wealth At Work didnt  have such cover it wouldnt be in a position to give 
Ref: DRN51138684any advice on such transfers, regardless of the outcome,  as its advice simply wouldnt be 
covered if it turned out to be unsuitable.
So if Wealth  At Work didnt have the relevant insurance cover it wouldnt have been able to 
advise Mr T at all. 
Mr T also referred to the incorrect  spelling of his first name in the letter  of authority that was 
being sent to YBS,  as evidence of Wealth At Works lack of attention to detail. And its clear 
such an error did occur which Wealth At Work  accepted might have potentially caused  a 
problem for the scheme administrator. But it acknowledged its error  and offered to send out 
a corrected form straight away. We all experience some  inconvenience when dealing with 
financial firms  from time to time but not to the extent that any compensation is warranted. I 
dont think this error was in any way material to Mr Ts complaint, that the outcome  of the 
report was not what  he said hed been  given  to expect.
Ultimately here I dont think Wealth At Work misled Mr T. I think  it set out what  it would do for 
him and what it would charge him for that work.  I think it carried out its analysis and the 
results led it to conclude, despite what Mr T says it previously suggested, that the transfer 
wasnt in his interests. I dont think that was an unreasonable  position  so I think  
Wealth At Work had fulfilled its duties,  as set out in its services and costs document, in 
order to justify its fee. So I dont think Wealth At Work needs  to refund its transfer analysis 
fee to Mr T. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5113868