K821x#15complaint
Ms P has complained about  the advice she was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer her pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 August 2020. The background and
circumstances of the case and the reasons I was minded to uphold it were  set out in that
decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to
consider.
Alexander David Securities Limited  didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.
Ms Ps representative asked that any compensation be paid directly  to Ms P. It said,  in 
summary, that Ms P was near her natural retirement date and had no reason to keep the 
SIPP open. The investments were illiquid however held a value, and it was likely they would 
be purchased rather  than written at nil value.  It said there would be problems transferring out 
of the SIPP  and the cash held in it would likely be eroded by inflation and charges within the 
SIPP over time. It said an award outside of the SIPP would allow  her to use her retirement  
funds how they were intended  to be used.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  to uphold the complaint.
Ms Ps representative has said she is at her natural retirement date and may not be able to 
access her pension given  the illiquid investment in it. My understanding  is that the 
investment can be encashed and isnt illiquid, so I dont think  it will be a problem. 
However if it is illiquid Ms P may be paid the commercial value on the investment directly  if 
the firm buys it and the SIPP wont accept payment into it. Ms P should be able to take the 
benefits from the SIPP if payment is made  into it (or if its given a nil value and payment 
made into it). And we have provided for five years  worth of SIPP  fees in the compensation 
during which  time its likely to able to close. If, for any reason, the SIPP  doesnt allow Ms P 
to access her money then given  she is at retirement  age I accept that its reasonable for the 
firm to pay compensation to her direct  with the appropriate deduction for tax. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  attached,  my final decision  is 
that I uphold  Ms Ps complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Ms P as set
out in my provisional  decision. However, as I have said above, subject to confirmation  from 
the SIPP provider  that its not possible for Ms P to access her money the compensation can 
Ref: DRN52749942be paid to her in cash, with the appropriate deduction for income tax as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service Im required to ask Ms P to accept or
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN52749943Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Ms P has complained  about the advice she was given  by St Pauls Marketing  Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David Securities Limited) to transfer her pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background  to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. He explained  Ms 
P had said she was cold called  in late 2015 and offered a pension review which she accepted. She 
said she was told that in the event of her death her son wouldnt receive  her existing  pension if it 
remained where it was. And she recalls being told that a better performing pension  which would  go to 
her son on her death could be arranged. 
Ms P received a letter from St Pauls Marketing  dated  25 November 2015. It said:
I confirm receipt of your letter  of Authority (LOA) for your existing pension providers to be able to 
release details about  your current pension  arrangements. I am pleased you feel it is worth conducting 
such a review.
The letter also said St Pauls Marketing was not authorised to give pension  advice (though  they were a 
regulated firm), and that an independent analyst  would  compile a summary report about Ms Ps 
existing pension. Under the heading Is your pension fund achieving  a fixed  return  of 8.25% pa? the 
letter also said:
The reason we promote  the idea of the pension summary is to highlight to you that you might 
potentially consider  investing into our corporate client, Just Financial  Loans and nvestmentsthrough 
your pension  if your pension fund isnt achieving  say 8.25%.
And under the heading  About us the letter also said:
St Pauls Marketing Limited is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, as it operates  as an 
Appointment Representative  of London based Alexander  David Securities
Ms P she says that a representative from St Pauls Marketing visited her at her home  where the earlier  
messages were repeated.
Ms P received another  letter from St Pauls Marketing dated 20 January 2016,  with the pension 
summary report attached showing how her existing  pension had performed over the last three years 
along with a breakdown of fees. The letter also said:
St Pauls is not providing you with any advice. Our interest  is to promote awareness and show you 
the 8.75% fixed return secured debenture of our corporate client.
Ms P applied for the SIPP in January 2016 and it was opened with £17,610 being transferred to it in 
February 2016. An account  with a discretionary fund manager (DFM) was opened and £16,800 was 
used to buy Just Bridging Loan debentures.
Ms P, through her representative, complained  to Alexander David in April 2018.   I understand 
Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint.  The representative subsequently 
referred the complaint  to us.
One of our investigators asked Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it 
wanted us to take into account.  Alexander David  said it thought  another firm was liable for the loss. 
Ref: DRN52749944Our investigator explained  why he thought St Pauls was an appointed representative  of Alexander 
David at the relevant  time. Despite reminders, no further  evidence or arguments were  provided. The 
investigator therefore assessed the complaint  on the evidence that had been presented.
The investigator noted  that Ms P had said she was told it was important that she transferred  her 
pensions so that her son would benefit on her death.  And that the new pension would  outperform her 
existing stakeholder  arrangement. The investigator noted the letters from the time referenced  the 
8.25% (and later 8.75%)  fixed return from Just Loans with the obvious  benefit  that might bring. And 
that the pension summary report sent to Ms P outlined  the performance and costs of the existing 
stakeholder pension. 
The investigator said it was clear a direct comparison  had been made between Ms Ps existing plan 
and the prospective investment with Just Loans in the SIPP, taking into consideration the 
performance of the existing  plan, the death benefits and Ms Ps objectives. He said it was difficult to 
imagine such  a conversation  taking place  without  a recommendation to proceed with the better 
option, inferred  or otherwise.  Although  it was stated that St Pauls Marketing  were not giving  advice, 
he thought it had, and that it was likely  a recommendation  had been  made  by St Pauls  Marketing  to 
Ms P.
Alexander David hadnt disputed or commented on her complaint. The investigator thought  Ms Ps 
version of events seemed  credible and was consistent with the limited evidence provided by third 
parties. He thought, based on what Ms P had said had happened, St Pauls Marketing had made a 
personal recommendation to her.
The investigator said Ms P was a relatively  inexperienced  investor at the time of the transfer. Her 
stakeholder pension was her only retirement provision,  and she had very little capacity for loss. Ms 
Ps risk profile at the time she arranged  her original stakeholder pension  in 2001 was low/medium and 
he didnt think this would  likely have changed as Ms P approached retirement  date.  Ms Ps 
stakeholder pension was invested in a Mixed Fund; a diversified UK and international  equity fund with 
some exposure to property. And its charges were 1% per year.
By comparison, the Just Loans debenture was issued  by a single  company  which the investigator 
understood was concerned  entirely with peer to peer lending. The company was only a few years old 
at the time of advice with little in the way of a track  record. Ms Ps entire retirement  provision was 
invested in it. The investigator said the investment was speculative and unsuitable for Ms P. 
The investigator said that even if it was argued St Pauls Marketing didnt make a personal 
recommendation, as it was arranging the transaction and making a direct offer it was required to carry 
out an appropriateness test in accordance  with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Conduct of 
Business rules (COBS); the debentures were a non-readily realisable  security. Had this been done, St 
Pauls Marketing would  have likely determined that Ms P didnt have the necessary  experience  and 
knowledge to understand the risks involved  in the Just Loans  investment.
The investigator went  onto say that he also thought the firm had failed to treat Ms P fairly or act in her 
best interests as required  by the FCAs Principles and COBS  2.1.1. Ms P was an inexperienced 
investor with very little capacity for loss. The investigator thought that any competent financial 
professional would have recognised that this transaction was unlikely to be in her best interests.  And 
without the firms involvement  this wouldnt have happened. 
The investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He sent his assessment of the it to 
Alexander David. However it didnt provide  a response. The investigator subsequently wrote to both 
parties on 6 January 2020 explaining that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman  for 
review and to make a final decision.   No further evidence  or arguments have been provided.  
Ref: DRN52749945my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Ms Ps original complaint. Neither  did it co-operate  with our 
investigation. It initially  said it thought another firm was responsible for the complaint however when 
the investigator explained the position it didnt provide  its business  files or respond  to the 
investigators assessment of the complaint. Theres only very limited evidence available  to establish 
what happened at the time of the transaction.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Ms Ps recollection of events. 
Alexander David hasnt disputed what Ms P said in her complaint to it, or what the investigator said in 
his assessment.
Im also mindful  that this is one of a number of complaints  we have received and which I have seen 
against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature,  involving  seemingly similar circumstances  
and the same  investments.
Clearly I need  to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided in each  
particular case. But Ive noted that what  Ms P has said about St Pauls role is consistent with what 
other complainants  have  described. So I think what she has said is plausible.  And taking  everything 
into account,  I have found it credible. 
As noted by the investigator, Ms P said that at the meeting the returns  from her current  plans were  
compared with the potential returns  from the debentures and she was told the debentures  were likely 
to perform better.
The documentation shows St Pauls Marketing was involved from the outset. Ms P subsequently 
transferred her pension to the SIPP  and invested in the debentures. In my experience, its unusual for 
someone of Ms Ps background and experience to want to transfer an existing  pension in order to 
invest in this type of investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened without 
the involvement of St Pauls. Im satisfied that it initiated the investment  in the debenture.  It was aware  
of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated it.
Ms P has said St Pauls told her she would  make better returns by transferring her pension. In making 
the complaint Ms Ps representative said shed been contacted by the Independent  Financial Advisor 
from St Pauls Marketing  who persuaded Ms P to move her original pension.  It said she wasnt 
earning herself at the time,  had no previous investment  experience,  little capacity for loss, and was a 
low risk investor. The investigator said he thought it likely St Pauls had recommended the transaction  
and it wasnt suitable for Ms P, and the firm hasnt disputed  this.  In all the circumstances and on the 
balance of the evidence  available, I think its more  likely than not that advice was given. And that the 
advice was unsuitable.
The investigator also said he thought St Pauls was involved in arranging the transaction  and that it 
was required, but failed, to assess its appropriateness  in accordance COBS 10. He didnt think  the 
debentures were  appropriate  for Ms P.
Again, St Pauls hasnt disputed this. I agree with the investigator  that its more likely than not that St 
Pauls arranged the investment. It was the promoter for the debenture, but Im satisfied, on the limited 
evidence available, that it went  beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the investment  
(and recommending it). The debenture  was high risk and speculative and clearly wasnt appropriate 
for Ms P given  her background,  knowledge  and circumstances.
I think  it was clear that the debenture wasnt suitable or appropriate for Ms P and this should have 
been clear  to St Pauls. Like the investigator, I dont think the firm treated  Ms P fairly or acted  in her 
best interests as required  by the Principles and COBS 2.1.1. Im satisfied that if St Pauls  hadnt 
Ref: DRN52749946advised Ms P to transfer and invest in the debenture or if it had told her it wasnt appropriate for her 
she wouldnt  have transferred and invested in it.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls failures caused  Ms P to transfer and invest  in a product that 
she would otherwise  not have invested into. It follows that Im satisfied its failures  caused the losses 
that Ms P has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint.  I intend to order Alexander  David Securities 
Limited to calculate and pay compensation  to Ms P on the following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms P as close as possible  to the 
position she would probably now be in if she had been  given suitable advice. I think Ms P would  have 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what  she would have done,  but I am satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms Ps circumstances  and objectives  when she 
invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Ms P fairly Alexander David should:
Compare the performance  of Ms Ps investment with that of the benchmark shown  
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual  value , there is a loss and compensation 
is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no compensation  is payable.  
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities  Ltd should pay into Ms Ps pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should  allow  for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David  Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Ms Ps pension  plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would  have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using 
Ms Ps actual  or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement age.
I think  Ms P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so the reduction 
should equal  the current basic  rate of tax. However,  if Ms P would have  been able to take a tax-free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Ref: DRN52749947investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of 
transferDate  of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision  to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified  of
Ms Ps
acceptance of
this decision
In addition,  Alexander  David  should:
Pay Ms P £250 for the distress and inconvenience the disruption  to her retirement 
planning has caused. 
Provide details of the calculation  to Ms P in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Ms P how much it has taken off. It should also give Ms P a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Actual value
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the open market),  it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be assumed to be nil to 
arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David Securities Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / administrator. This 
amount should be deducted  from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to purchase the investment its value should be assumed  to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Ms P provides an undertaking  to pay it any 
amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking  must  allow for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred  on drawing  or receipt from the pension plan. Alexander David 
Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
Ref: DRN52749948Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges  incurred  within the plan 
on transfer, would have been worth at the end date had they grown in line with the
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander David  
Securities Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published  by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month.  Those  rates should  be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the point in 
time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted from the fair value at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
SIPP Fees 
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it couldnt  
buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Ms P hasnt got the opportunity to close the SIPP if 
the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David  Securities Ltd cant buy the investment and 
it remains illiquid, it should pay Ms P an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current  
tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated  using a nil value  for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
The investigator recommended  that the firm should use Ms Ps original pension as a basis to 
calculate compensation. However Ms Ps representative has said she was a low risk investor  and had 
little capacity  for loss.  Given  she was approaching  retirement  age, I think  this is consistent  with her 
circumstances, and therefore her existing  fund presented a higher degree of risk than was appropriate 
for her. 
In the circumstances,  I dont think Ms P would have transferred  with suitable advice. But I think she 
would have switched  investments with her existing provider. Given I dont know  exactly how she 
would have invested, I think the index  I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark  as I think  
its a reasonable proxy  for the lower  level of risk that Ms P was willing  and able to take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to their capital.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms Ps risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to take 
a small level of risk to attain  her investment  objectives.  So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Ms P into that position. It does  not mean that Ms P would have invested 50% 
of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of index tracker  investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Ms P could 
have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52749949
Ref: DRN5274994