K820x#14Complaint
Mr A has complained his debit card was retained by HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) when 
using one of its cash machines.  He said this left him unable to travel  to London for a family  
gathering, and wants HSBC to compensate  him.
Background
In December 2018 Mr A visited a branch  of HSBC to withdraw money from one of its cash 
machines. His card was subsequently retained. Mr A called HSBC that day, but it was 
unable to explain to him why this happened. It ordered him a new card, and offered him £25 
in compensation  for the inconvenience caused. It also offered to transfer funds to his friends 
or family, or said that otherwise, he could withdraw the cash  in branch the next working day 
(two days later). Mr A refused HSBCs offer, and requested it pay him £1,000  for the distress  
caused. HSBC  refused.
One of our investigators  looked into this matter.  He thought HSBCs efforts to resolve the 
issue were reasonable,  and thought  its offer of £25 in compensation  was fair. So he didnt 
recommend HSBC do anything more. 
Mr A disagreed and asked that his complaint be reviewed. He said the retention of his card 
by the machine implied that he had done  something  wrong, and he doesnt feel hes been 
given a proper  explanation of why this was. He said not having  the money to travel that day 
has caused upset  to him and his family. And the options he was given were of no use to him. 
So as no agreements been reached  at this stage, the case has come to me, as an 
ombudsman to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
HSBC has told us that when Mr A called - unhappy  with the fact his card had been retained, 
it was unable to determine the reason why. The investigator looked  into this, and found  that 
a branch can establish a reason for a card being retained, by running a maintenance report.  
So he asked HSBC  to do this.
HSBC explained  that for the maintenance report to confirm a reason for a card being  
retained, there would  need  to be a card retention marker left on a customers account.  It said 
this was not the case on Mr As account,  so unfortunately,  it remained unable to determine  
the reason for the card being  held.  It maintained  its offer of £25 in compensation, along with 
its offer to transfer  funds to a friend  or family  member for him to withdraw.
Mr A explained that his family didnt live nearby, so they were unable  to withdraw the funds 
for him. So he rejected HSBCs proposed  solution  along with its offer of compensation, which 
left him with no alternative other  than to wait until Monday until the branch opened. 
I understand why HSBCs suggestion  of a transfer  of funds was not suitable for Mr A at the 
time offered, given  he needed to travel  that weekend. And I appreciate the difficult position 
this may have left him in regarding  his travel arrangements, particularly because I 
understand the importance of this trip for him.
Ref: DRN53027762However, there seem to have been  few alternative options available  to HSBC in which  it 
could help Mr A, given that it was a weekend and the branch was closed. And Mr A was able 
to withdraw from his account  when the branch reopened on the Monday.
Its unfortunate that the solutions  HSBC proposed werent able to help Mr A continue  with his 
travel plans that weekend.  And Im sorry to hear this caused  upset  to him and his family. But 
I dont think HSBC wouldve been able to foresee the impact retaining  the card would have 
on Mr A. And, although I cant  be certain  of what caused it to be retained  by the cash 
machine, this doesnt seem to have been  the result  of any issue with the account itself.  So 
overall, I think HSBCs  payment to Mr A of £25 represents a fair resolution to his complaint.
I appreciate this is not the answer that Mr A was hoping for, but ultimately, given what HSBC  
did to try and resolve Mr As problem, I think its offer of compensation is fair in the 
circumstances.
 
My final decision
My final decision, is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5302776