K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the final balloon  payment  on a Hire Purchase Agreement  with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  trading as BMW Financial  Services (BMWFS)  was too 
high. He would like a rebate of between £500-£1,500 to reflect the cars reduced market 
value. 
background
Mr M says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with BMWFS in March  2017 for a used 
car. The agreement  was for 48 months.
He says over the time he has had the car issues with diesel cars have come to the forefront. 
And as a result the value of these  cars has reduced. So he feels  its unfair that the balloon 
payment on his contract didnt reduce to reflect this.
He says in January 2019 BMWFS gave him a quote for early settlement of his contract. The 
amount outstanding was £28,647.71 which included the balloon payment on the contract  of 
£13,598.50. He feels in the current climate a balloon payment of £12,000  is more  realistic
Unfortunately he says the car was written  off as a result  of an accident.  Had this not 
happened he said he would  have  returned the car, and not paid the final balloon payment.
He said he was unlikely  to get a settlement of more than £23-24,000 from his insurance 
company so he will be out of pocket  by approximately £4,500-£5,500. He says he offered to 
settle the amount owing to BMFS if it reduced the amount owing/ gave him a credit of £1,500
BMWFS said the balloon  payment is calculated at the point of sale.  It takes  into account a 
number of factors such as annual mileage, repayments and current market values. Mr M 
signed the contract accepting the figures.  It added he had the option not to purchase  the car 
at the end of the contract and therefore avoid paying the balloon payment
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He acknowledged the information  Mr M 
provided about the current  drop in value  of diesel cars. But he found the balloon  payment 
part of the contract  Mr M signed was not negotiable  during  the term of the contract. It was 
based on market  value at the point of sale.
BMWFS accepted this view but Mr M didnt. He said there  was overwhelming  evidence  that 
diesel cars have devalued. On this basis he felt BMWFS  ought  to reduce the final balloon  
payment to reflect the current market value of the car.
Our adjudicator considered the points Mr M made but didnt change his view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly about  his complaint and I do understand why. I should make 
it clear that my decision  is based purely on BMWFS actions in regard to Mr Ms specific 
complaint. Its not my role to look at how BMWFSs  contract terms affect consumers in 
general. 
Ref: DRN57504892Mr M has made reference to the balloon payment part of BMWFSs contract being an unfair  
contract term. My decision is based on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. If Mr M feels  the balloon payment part of his contract shouldnt be legally  
enforceable then that issue would be better suited to consideration by a court.
Its unfortunate that Mr Ms car was written off resulting  in, as I understand it, the necessity 
for him to end his finance agreement in 2019.
Mr M has told us that he didnt expect to get more than between  £23-24,000 from his 
insurance claim. He has since given  us a letter from his insurer confirming it is legally 
obliged to cover the cost of the pre accident valuation for the car (£24,923)  less the policy  
excess.
In terms of the outstanding payment that BMWFS charged Ive looked at the contract Mr M 
signed. The value of the car at the point of sale was £38,578.22,  the contract allowed for 48 
monthly payments  of £612.07 with a final (optional) balloon  payment of £13,598.50. 
The balance BMWFS quoted as due as at January  2019 was £28,647.71  which included the 
balloon payment stated above. So on the basis of the insurance information  Mr M has given 
us I can appreciate there is a shortfall between the amount  owing and the insurance sum 
paid out. 
I appreciate Mr M has sent us a lot of information on the issue of diesel cars devaluing. But 
looking at the contract  Mr M signed  the payments are fixed at the point of sale. I appreciate 
when Mr M signed the contract he couldnt have  known  of any future issues with diesel cars. 
But neither  could BMWFS.
Unfortunately as Mr M signed  the contract with the terms of payment clearly stated I dont 
think that BMWFS  were  wrong to keep  the balloon payment  at the level as stated in that 
contract..
I appreciate Mr M said had he kept the car he would have returned it and not paid the 
balloon payment. That may or may not have  been  the case. Its unfortunate that the fact his 
car was written off forced him to end his contract  early so he didnt have  that choice. 
But as BMWFS were  not responsible for the contract ending early.  Or fall the shortfall in the 
insurance payment.  I cant reasonably conclude it would be fair to expect BMWFS  to reduce 
the balloon payment as Mr M requested
As I have already  said if Mr M believes the balloon payment  is an unfair contract  term that 
issue is best dealt  with by the Courts not this service.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Ref: DRN57504893Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5750489