K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) have treated them unfairly  by 
carrying out an intrusive enquiry into their banking activities  - which has taken an 
unreasonable time to conclude. They add that in the process  Santander has bullied and 
harassed them.  
background
Mr R has two sole accounts  with Santander  and one other that is in joint names  with Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R are both eligible complainants given that one of the bank accounts 
Santanders enquiry covered was their joint account.  But the other  two Santander bank  
accounts, that form part of this complaint,  are Mr Rs only. 
So to make things  simple, and given Mr R has represented this complaint, I will largely refer 
to Mr R in the rest of my decision.  
In August  2018,  Santander wrote to Mr R asking  him to complete a questionnaire related to 
his banking activities. Mr R says he initially chose  to ignore this as he found it offensive. But 
after being  prompted by one of Santanders  agents  he completed the questionnaire.   
In September  2018, Santander instigated calls to Mr R which asked him further questions 
about his banking activities; the source and purpose of his funds. After several interactions, 
Mr R provided  information  as requested.
Unhappy with what had happened Mr R complained about the way he had been treated. 
Amongst other things he has said he felt forced and bullied into revealing his private  affairs 
under the threat of his accounts being closed.   
In October  2018, Santander responded to Mr Rs complaint. In summary  it said: 
It was complying with its legal and regulatory  requirements by contacting and asking 
its customers about their personal  information;
It had contacted him by phone to get further  information that was required;
That it hadnt acted  inappropriately  by asking Mr R the questions  it had, and it was 
sorry Mr R found  matter  invasive and offensive  
Mr R will receive  a letter in relation to the matter, but Santander  couldnt  say when
Santander then contacted  Mr R in January 2019  and asked  him for further information about 
his banking activities and source of funds.  In doing so Santander said it would have to 
restrict Mr Rs access  to his account if the deadline  for complying wasnt met. 
Santander then called  Mr R to ask him further questions about  his banking and financial 
affairs. The call was unannounced and lasted over an hour.  
In February 2019,  Santander wrote to Mr R and explained its records had been  updated with 
the information hed provided and there was nothing further  he needed to do. 
Mr R then, and for a second time,  complained to Santander about everything  that had 
happened. 
Ref: DRN56140402In its response Santander explained as a regulated business it needs to review  transactions 
to and from its customers accounts  and to ensure it has detailed  and accurate information 
to meet  its regulatory  obligations. And so it had done nothing  wrong  in the actions it took. 
But Santander found that its review  had taken longer than it would expect, and the calls 
couldve been conducted more sympathetically.  Santander said it couldnt see that Mr R was 
told the review would close in October 2018.  Santander offered £100 to Mr R for the trouble 
and upset this matter had caused  him.  
Unhappy with what Santander said, Mr R complained to this service.  One of our 
investigators then looked  into the matter. In summary, and over two separate view letters,  
they said: 
Santanders review  was in line with its legal  and regulatory obligations; and
It was entitled to ask for the information  it did notwithstanding that it amounted to 
nearly 20 years worth  of activity;
Given the uncertainty this matter caused  it was understandable why Mr R was 
concerned and distressed;
Santander had caused unnecessary delays and ought to have afforded  Mr R longer 
deadlines to provide  information;
Santander should pay Mr R £200  for the trouble and upset it caused;
After listening to the calls Santander  had provided, Mr R hadnt been  treated unfairly  
Santander agreed with our investigators conclusions. Mr R didnt agree.
I have spoken  to Mr R to see if he has any further  submissions hed like to make.  In 
summary, and in addition  to what he told our investigator,  he makes the following points: 
Given the sleepless nights, stress  and anxiety caused he would like the 
compensation and level of blame  attributed to Santander reconsidered;
Santanders unannounced call to him in January 2019 was late and so inappropriate;
False  promises  about closure letters and threats about suspending his banking 
activity shouldnt be made especially when he is complying with requests 
Santanders case handlers are not adequately  trained to understand what the 
transactions related to;
The case  handlers were trying to trip him up, and all the answers they required were 
already available on the bank  statements
Mr R suspected he was being  investigated for criminal activity and spent substantive  
hours getting records from his accountant  and solicitor
It follows that I must now decide this matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to a 
similar conclusion  to our investigator for the pretty much the same reasons. 
I know this will disappoint Mr R, so Ill explain why. 
I know Mr R feels  strongly  about  his complaint. And Id like to assure  him, even  if I havent  
explicitly set-out all his points, that I have  carefully considered everything hes said.    
Ref: DRN56140403Santanders review
I appreciate the stress and worry Santanders review  has caused Mr R, and I think this is 
understandable. But Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in 
order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations.  They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship.  
That sometimes means banks and building societies need to restrict, or in some cases go as 
far as closing, customers accounts. So I can see why this was mentioned  as a possible 
outcome if Mr R didnt comply with requests of information asked of him. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Santander has done anything  wrong  in the 
actions it has taken  in reviewing Mr Rs accounts  and explaining that non-compliance could 
lead to his accounts being restricted. 
Phone calls 
Ive listened very carefully to all the calls Santander  have  given me between its agents and 
Mr R. Having done that Im satisfied  Mr R wasnt treated  unfairly. In saying this I note he has 
talked about being bullied and harassed, but I havent heard anything that makes me think  
that was the case. Nor have I heard anything that makes me think Santanders agents were 
attempting to unfairly trip him up. 
Mr R has also complained  about  the lateness  and length of the January call - and that it was 
unannounced. But Mr R was asked if it was a convenient time to talk and that it may take a 
while to which he agreed to proceed. So I cant say Santander has done anything wrong. 
customer service  
Mr R says that Santanders agents are inadequately trained given his banking records 
contained most of the answers to the questions asked of him. 
Ive already explained that as a regulated  business  Santander has a myriad of legal and 
regulatory obligations to meet, and this involves the ongoing monitoring of accounts. And 
from what Ive seen  and heard  I dont think Santanders done anything  wrong  in asking the 
questions it has. 
As Ive already  said, I can understand why this matter has caused Mr R a lot of stress and 
worry for the variety  of reasons hes explained. And though Santander was obligated to do 
what it has done, Im persuaded it couldve done  things better. 
Principally, I think it couldve dealt with the entire matter  much quicker than the six months or 
so its taken to bring the matter to a close. I also note that Santander say Mr R was told in 
September 2018 that a letter would go out to say everything was fine after hed given 
information requested  of him. So I can see why Mr R wouldve thought Santanders  review  
had ended only to be caused worry when he was again asked for further information in early  
2019. 
Ive also thought about what  Mr R has said about the burden this matter placed on him in 
terms of getting information from his solicitor and accountant. I do note Mr R explained to 
Ref: DRN56140404Santander, in one of the calls, that it was a good thing he kept such well-ordered and 
extensive records of his financial affairs. 
Notwithstanding that, Im persuaded  Santander  has caused Mr R trouble and upset for the 
reasons Ive explained. And so it ought  to pay him compensation for this. Im satisfied that 
£200 is a fair amount.
In weighing  this up Ive thought carefully  about  the impact this matter has had on Mr R, 
which in large is due to Santander fulfilling its legal and regulatory  obligations.   Something  it 
must, as a regulated business, do. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.  
Santander UK Plc should put things right by paying Mr and Mrs R £200 for the trouble and 
upset it has caused.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 January 2021.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5614040