K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly gave her a credit card she couldnt  afford  to 
repay.
Miss M is represented in this complaint by her relative. For ease, any comments  or 
submissions made by her representative will be referred to as if made  by Miss M herself.
background
Miss M applied for a credit card with NewDay in October 2016. She was initially  approved for 
a credit limit of £900. The credit limit was later increased to £1,900 in February 2017, to 
£2,900 in June 2017, to £3,900 in November 2017  and finally  to £5,400 in November 2018  
Miss M says she couldnt afford the credit card and the limit increases had caused  her 
financial difficulties. She says NewDay also increased the interest rate which made things  
more difficult. She says this impacted her mental  health and NewDay didnt offer any support 
to help her manage  her debts. 
Miss M said that she had over £40,000  in other unsecured debts at the time she took out the 
credit card. She says shed only recently graduated and her income wasnt  enough to cover 
all of her existing commitments.  
NewDay didnt think it had acted  unfairly.  They said they sent Miss M letters  well in advance 
of the increases to her interest rate and she could have opted  out of the increases, but she 
chose to keep  the card instead. They said appropriate affordability  checks were carried  out 
when Miss M applied for the card and each time it increased her credit limit. It said there 
werent any indications  to suggest  she couldnt afford the borrowing.  
I sent Miss M and NewDay my provisional decision on 30 September 2020.  I explained  why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld in part. My provisional findings are attached and 
form part of this final decision. In summary,  I said that I didnt think NewDay had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Ms ability to sustainably  repay  
the borrowing. However, had reasonable and proportionate  checks been completed  such 
as verifying her income and expenditure  its likely this would have still showed the initial  
credit limit and the subsequent increases were likely to be affordable to Miss M. 
I said NewDay had treated Miss M unfairly  when  dealing  with her concerns around  her 
financial difficulty and that it should  pay her £175  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience its actions  caused. 
NewDay accepted  my provisional decision  but Miss M didnt. In summary, she said:
the rental income wasnt  hers and that her actual income couldnt sustain the 
repayments on the credit card. Her outstanding debt at the time of applying  for the 
card was over £45,000. It isnt normal for a credit card company to continue  
increasing the credit limit every four months  or so. 
She was unable to pay her rent and bills because of the excessive amount of debt 
she was in. She did have  rent and bills to pay but her relative was responsible for 
them and her contribution would  often  be deducted  from other transactions  between 
their two accounts. 
Ref: DRN50030842NewDay didnt complete adequate checks and if they had they would have seen this 
was unaffordable.  The income wasnt hers to use and due to family difficulties at the 
time money was exchanging between family members regularly and this shouldnt be 
used as a source of regular income.  
Because NewDay didnt do appropriate checks the lending  shouldnt have been 
granted. It isnt her fault that they increased  the credit limits.  They had created an 
unfair relationship  by trapping her into further  debt. NewDay was in breach of 
legislation in the way it has acted. 
They would have  seen repeat  borrowing on the credit checks. All interest and 
charges should  be refunded as she gave  accurate information in the application  and 
it should have  been clear she couldnt  afford it. 
NewDay havent been forthcoming  with information and it seems unlikely the relevant 
call recordings  are no longer available. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision,  and for the same reasons.  For 
completeness, Ill address  the additional points Miss M has raised. 
Miss M has referenced various  bits of legislation that she says NewDay were in breach of. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account  (amongst other  things) 
the law. And I want to assure Miss M that Ive taken into consideration the legislation  she 
has referred to when thinking holistically  about  whether NewDay  acted fairly in their dealings  
with her. 
In doing that, Ive concluded that NewDay  didnt  carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks each time it granted Miss M credit, or when it advanced her further credit. Miss M is 
of the view that this means the complaint ought to be upheld. But I disagree. While NewDay 
didnt carry out the appropriate checks, I also need  to consider what lending decision 
NewDay would likely  have reached  if it had carried out the appropriate  checks. As explained 
in my provisional decision,  I think it would have likely concluded that Miss M could afford the 
borrowing. 
I want to make it clear to both NewDay and Miss M that I think NewDay ought not to have 
lent to Miss M on the basis  of her declared salary alone. This coupled with the amount  of 
debt it knew she already had, should have indicated further borrowing was unlikely to be 
affordable and sustainable.  I agree  with Miss M that the increases to the limit were frequent 
and substantial. I dont think NewDay acted responsibly in the way it increased these limits 
with minimal understanding of Miss Ms circumstances. 
Having said that, in the very specific circumstances of this case,  I think closer scrutiny of 
Miss Ms finances (which  is what  I think  NewDay  ought to have done  before lending) would 
most likely have led NewDay  to conclude she had further sources of income on top of her 
salary and could  comfortably afford the increases in credit.
I note Miss M has said this additional  income  wasnt hers.  However, I dont think  that would 
have been clear to a prospective lender if they were  to review her statements. It appears 
many of her other credit commitments  were  regularly  being paid by money coming into her 
accounts from other sources  other  than the salary from her job. There were also no regular 
Ref: DRN50030843payments going  out for rent or utility bills and this wouldnt have caused any concern  given  
she declared she was living  at home with parents.
Miss M has also said that money  was regularly being exchanged between  family members 
to help each other out. I can see that Miss M was transferring  money out of her accounts 
too, but I think this would appear to a prospective  lender that money was available for her to 
use as and when  she needed it. I can accept the rental income  and the money sent to her 
accounts from relatives may not have been intended as her income.  However, it was 
available for her to use and it appears she did use it to pay many  of her credit  commitments 
on a regular basis.
As this was a regular  and consistent  feature in her accounts, I dont think it would have been 
unreasonable for NewDay to have used this money  as income when  assessing  what was 
affordable to her. Further, as her outgoings  appeared  to be limited  to just her credit 
commitments, which appeared to be comfortably serviced by the regular amounts of money 
coming into her accounts, I dont  think had NewDay carried out proportionate checks that it 
ought to have reasonably concluded the lending was likely  to be unaffordable  and 
unsustainable.
Lastly, Miss M has said that NewDay has failed to provide copies  of the call recordings as it 
knows the information it contains would  paint them in a bad light.  I agree its disappointing  
NewDay havent retained copies of the calls, particularly as Miss M raised concerns about 
those calls promptly at the time.  I think NewDay ought to have done  better. 
In the absence of being  able to listen to what was said, I have found, on balance,  that it was 
more likely than not NewDay  didnt conduct themselves appropriately during that call. It is for 
that reason and their failure  to deal with Miss Ms concerns properly, that I think it should pay 
£175 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions have  caused.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct NewDay  Ltd to:
Pay Miss M £175 compensation (if it hasnt already) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50030844my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Ive considered  amongst 
other things   the rules and guidance  for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) within the Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions  I need to consider in order to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1.Did NewDay  complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able to repay  the borrowing  in a sustainable  way?
a.If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
b.If not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Miss M 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2.Did NewDay  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
If I think Miss M has been  disadvantaged in any way by NewDays  actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Did NewDay  complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit,  NewDay were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ms ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred  to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Miss M could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering  her 
specific circumstances), rather  than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter, is the 
risk posed  to NewDay as the lender, or its credit  risk but this is not necessarily the same as 
an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited  to:
The amount  of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be. 
NewDay initially approved  a credit limit of £900. While this isnt a significant amount of credit 
it was an open-ended running  account facility  with a high interest rate of almost  30% for 
standard purchase transactions. NewDay was also aware that Miss M had around  £38,000 
in unsecured debt elsewhere which included one loan, an overdraft and several other credit 
cards. So my starting  point therefore is that a proportionate check  ought to have been 
relatively thorough,  given  the type of credit, its cost and Miss Ms individual  circumstances. 
Ref: DRN50030845As part of the initial application NewDay asked Miss M to self-declare her income which  she 
said was around  £17,000  per year.  NewDay says it verified this through one of the credit  
reference agencies,  although it hasnt provided  anything to show  exactly  what information it 
received. In any event,  from the evidence Ive seen  from Miss M, it appears this was likely to 
be an accurate reflection  of her income  at the time.  
NewDay said it calculated that Miss M had around £69 in disposable income each month  
after the new maximum monthly repayment  of £90 was taken into account. It says Miss M 
comfortably met its lending policy and the application was therefore approved correctly. But 
I have some concerns  with NewDays decision  to lend to Miss M based  on what  it knew.
NewDay has focused on Miss Ms application  meeting its lending  criteria, but this isnt 
necessarily the same  as ensuring the lending  was affordable to Miss Ms specific 
circumstances. This is supported by the fact that NewDay  has continually referred to relying 
on statistical data from credit  reference  agencies or the Office of National Statistics  to 
estimate income and expenditure.  While NewDay is entitled to use statistical  data in some 
cases when assessing  applications, it shouldnt do so when it knows or ought  to know that it 
is unlikely to give an accurate picture of a particular  individuals circumstances. I think  that 
was the case  here. 
NewDay was already aware  that Miss M was heavily indebted elsewhere. She had an 
outstanding personal loan for a significant amount (NewDay  says this was for around 
£23,000, but from what Ive seen it was likely  to be substantially higher and closer to 
£30,000), as well as having regular  repayments on at least  three other credit cards. While 
Miss M may have  been able to ensure  these  accounts hadnt  fallen into arrears, that didnt 
automatically mean her current level of borrowing was sustainable or further borrowing was 
likely to be. I think given  the relatively low income Miss M appeared to have compared to the 
high amount of debt she was already in, NewDay ought to have carried out more thorough 
checks before agreeing  to lend to her. 
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Miss M could sustainably  
repay the borrowing?
I think NewDay ought to have verified  what  income  and expenditure Miss M had before 
granting her the borrowing.  I cant be sure what evidence  or information NewDay would have 
used to do this. But in the absence of anything else, Ive relied on Miss Ms bank statements 
from the time which I think show what NewDay would likely  have  found  out had it asked for 
further evidence  of income and expenditure. 
Miss M held three current accounts at the time as well as at least  one savings account. 
NewDay would likely  have seen she held these  three current  accounts when it completed a 
credit check.  One of her accounts (account 1) was consistently overdrawn,  on average 
around £1,700,  however her other two current accounts were in a positive balance. On 
closer inspection account 1 was a student/graduate account and it appears it attracted no 
interest at the time Miss M applied for the NewDay credit card.  There also appeared to be 
very little in the way of essential  spending   such as on bills or living  expenses. 
Accounts 2 and 3 show that in addition  to her salary of around £1,250 per month, she was 
also in receipt of regular  income through other sources. Account 2 had regular credits from 
family members ranging between £200  to £1,000 per month.  These appeared to be used to 
pay existing loan and credit arrangements Miss M had. Account 3 had some form of rental  
income which in some  months  could be as much as £2,500. Miss M says this wasnt  income  
Ref: DRN50030846for her but for a relative and she would pass this money on to them. But having  looked 
through her account statements it appears  she would retain  several hundred pounds at least  
of this income for herself. And in some  months  the majority of that income was used to 
service her own debts. So Im not persuaded this wasnt income intended for her. 
From everything Ive seen  it appears  Miss Ms essential spending was limited to a loan, 
several credit cards, a mobile  phone contract, a television  contract and an insurance policy.  
She had stated she was living at home  with her parents and this appears to have  been  
accurate given Ive seen  no evidence or rent, utility bills or council tax payments that she 
was responsible for. She will no doubt  have had travel  expenses for work and 
understandably some food and clothing costs  too. But taking into account all of this, her 
salary and the other regular income  she appeared to receive, I dont think  NewDay  ought to 
have come to a different lending decision had it carried out reasonable and proportionate  
checks when initially granting the credit  card.  
I say this because  it appears  the initial credit limit was affordable to Miss M taking into 
account her committed monthly expenditure and disposable income. I accept this did vary 
from month to month given the nature of the payments from the rental income and family 
members. However, it appears  she had sufficient disposable income to meet all of her 
existing committed expenditure and the new credit card NewDay provided. 
Limit increase 1
NewDay increased the credit limit four times,  so Ive considered whether the checks it 
carried out at each increase were reasonable and proportionate, and if not what reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have shown.  
With each credit limit increase it doesnt  appear  NewDay asked for any further  information  
about Miss Ms income  and expenditure than what it had collected during the initial  
application. It does  however appear to have  carried  out a new credit  check  each time and it 
says it assessed  her usage of the NewDay credit  card account too. Given  everything I set 
out earlier, I dont  think this was reasonable or proportionate as NewDay ought to have 
gathered more thorough information about Miss Ms ability to repay  the borrowing. 
The first increase in February 2017 was to £1,900. This was a significant increase and in 
that time Miss M had only made four monthly repayments to NewDay. Further,  the monthly 
repayments Miss M had been making towards  the credit  card had decreased  in size 
considerably in the two months leading  up to the increase. 
Overall I dont think NewDay  carried out reasonable of proportionate checks  given  how much 
it had increased the limit by and particularly because its previous data suggested Miss M 
could only just about afford to sustainably repay the initial  limit. NewDay ought to have 
realised that an increase  of this size was likely  to have a detrimental  impact,  if Miss Ms 
circumstances were  what it believed it was. 
However, had it carried  out a reasonable assessment of her ability to repay, its likely it 
would have discovered similar information to what Ive set out earlier in the decision as her 
financial circumstances hadnt significantly  changed in that four month  period. From 
everything Ive seen, I think Miss M could still afford to sustainably pay the increased limit, 
taking into account  her committed expenditure and income. Several of her expensive credit 
commitments were  being serviced  by payments she received from family and through  rental 
Ref: DRN50030847income. This meant  the majority of her salary from her work appeared to be disposable 
income.
Limit increase 2
 In June 2017, NewDay increased  the limit by a further £1,000 to £2,900. Given  it had now 
granted her £2,000 more  than the initial limit it approved  and it thought she only had enough 
disposable income to cover a limit of around £900 it ought to have done a more  thorough  job 
of assessing her ability to sustainably  afford the borrowing. Further, Miss Ms overall debt 
exposure hadnt decreased by any significant margin since  the card was first given  to her, so 
it seems she hadnt been actively reducing what she owed. 
However, had more thorough checks been  done  to verify Miss Ms income and expenditure, 
it appears her circumstances hadnt  changed  since the previous increase. And despite the 
additional borrowing  NewDay  provided,  Miss M still had enough disposable income  to 
service a sustainable monthly repayment  on the credit card due to the large amounts of 
additional income she was receiving. 
Limit increase 3
NewDay increased the limit by a further £1,000 to £3,900  in November 2017. As before it 
only checked her usage  of her NewDay credit card and carried out a credit search. However, 
over a year had passed and it had increased her limit by £3,000  in that time as well as it 
being aware that Miss Ms overall debt exposure was broadly similar  to a year ago, I think  it 
ought to have carried out more thorough checks  before agreeing to lend. 
It seems  that Miss M opened a new credit  card account the same month with another  lender, 
which had an initial credit limit of £5,600. Its unclear whether NewDay  would have seen this 
at the time it increased her limit on this credit card but based on the timings  and from what 
Ive seen I think its unlikely. However,  had it attempted  to verify her income  and expenditure 
as I think it ought to have,  then I think its likely  it would have discovered this additional 
facility. 
It seems  Miss M was still in the same employment earning the same salary.  In addition, she 
continued to receive  the rental  income I previously mentioned  and, in most months, used  
large proportions  of these payments to cover  her own debt repayments. Ive not seen any 
evidence of Miss M making payments towards rent or household bills during this time,  so her 
expenditure hadnt significantly  changed either,  other  than the addition  of a new credit card. 
While the amount of borrowing Miss M was taking might have  given NewDay cause for 
concern, it appears  that she continued  to have sufficient disposable income to be able to 
maintain sustainable repayments towards all of her existing  commitments as well as the 
increased limit. 
Limit increase 4
The final increase was in November 2018 and this brought the credit limit up to £5,400.  As 
before I dont think NewDay carried out a reasonable and proportionate  assessment of 
Miss Ms ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. 
While I can see that in the previous year, she had made two large payments towards the 
card (both in excess of £1,500),  this in itself wouldnt adequately demonstrate her ability to 
Ref: DRN50030848sustainably repay. Particularly because  of the large amount of debt she had accrued 
elsewhere. And it seems  at least one of those payments was a balance transfer to a different 
card, so she hadnt  paid it from her own income. 
Ive also considered that NewDay increased Miss Ms interest  rate a few months  earlier 
because of a change in risk when it reviewed her account management and other  credit  
commitments. So this limit increase was inconsistent with what NewDay appears to have 
thought about Miss M and her ability  to repay  debt only a few months earlier. 
Had NewDay carried out a proportionate assessment of her ability  to repay, I think its likely 
it would  have discovered that Miss M was now in a new job with a slightly  larger salary. She 
earned roughly  an additional £100 per month  than she did before. Her rental income also 
appeared to continue as well as the ad-hoc payments from relatives.  From looking at her 
statements I havent seen  any new additional expenditure on top of what Ive listed 
previously.
While a sustainable repayment on a credit card with a limit of £5,400 would likely be 
sizeable. It appears Miss M continued to have sufficient disposable income to be able to 
sustainably repay  this and her other  committed expenditure. Ive seen from her credit  report 
that she made sizeable repayments  towards some of her other credit cards on a regular 
basis which were far in excess of any minimum payment.  Having reviewed her bank 
statements it seems this was from the rental income  she received and the regular payments 
from relatives. I think this further  supports that Miss M did have large amounts of disposable 
income, it may just be that she directed them towards other priorities. 
I note that when Miss M filled in an income and expenditure document  in 2019 she says in 
addition to the expenditure Ive mentioned, each month she was paying £400 in rent, £40 for 
utility bills, £100 for food and housekeeping,  £10 for house and buildings  insurance and 
£250 for travel expenses. 
I dont doubt what  shes said,  but when she applied  for the card she told NewDay she was 
living at home with her parents and it seems  this was the case. Ive also not seen any 
evidence of any of these costs in her three  current accounts during the relevant time. So 
even if NewDay had sought to verify Miss Ms income and expenditure, Im not persuaded it 
would have found evidence of any of these costs. And its for that reason I dont  think its 
acted unreasonably in granting  the credit, despite its checks  not being  proportionate or 
adequate when increasing  her limit. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think NewDay carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Miss Ms ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. However,  if it 
had done so, I dont think it ought to have led it to a different lending decision. 
Did NewDay  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
Miss M says that NewDay didnt  treat her fairly when she was in financial difficulty  in 2019.  
She says she reached out for assistance as she was struggling to pay off the debt. She says 
the payments  she was making were only just covering the monthly interest charge. 
Ive reviewed NewDays contact notes which show a record  of when Miss M has spoken with 
them and what was discussed. It seems the first time NewDay were notified  of Miss Ms 
financial difficulty was when our service forwarded Miss Ms complaint to it in January 2019.  
Ref: DRN50030849NewDay sent a final response letter to Miss M in March 2019 asking her to call them  to 
discuss her situation in more detail. 
Miss M then missed  a payment in March 2019  as her direct debit had been cancelled  and 
she called  to make a manual payment. Despite her calling them,  NewDay  appears to have 
failed to discuss her financial difficulty at this time. 
It seems  that further conversations  about  Miss Ms financial  difficulty were had in May 2019. 
Miss M was asked to complete an income  and expenditure  form so that NewDay could look 
into a suitable  repayment plan. Its not clear if Miss M returned this form to NewDay or not, 
but it seems that Miss M wasnt prepared to enter  into any kind of repayment  plan anyway. 
The notes say that Miss M didnt want her credit  file adversely impacted and NewDay had 
said it would  be if she entered into a repayment plan. Since raising  her complaint to our 
service Miss M has also reiterated  that she didnt want her credit  file impacted. 
If NewDay were  to waive or reduce the interest  on the credit card account  and/or accept 
lower payments than were contractually due, it would  have been entitled to record this 
arrangement on Miss Ms credit file. The credit file is intended  to accurately reflect  how 
Miss M was managing the account  and if she had agreed to no longer meet her contractual 
obligations it would have been fair for NewDay  to report  that to the credit  reference 
agencies. 
I do think NewDay missed an opportunity to intervene at an earlier stage when Miss M first 
called in March  2019. However,  I think the £75 compensation it has offered to pay for the 
inconvenience and upset caused  for this error is fair. This is because  even if it had 
intervened earlier,  it doesnt  appear  Miss M was willing to accept  any repayment proposal 
from NewDay as it would  impact her credit file. 
Miss M says that NewDay spoke  to her unprofessionally during one particular call which 
upset her greatly. I havent been  able to listen to the call she refers to (as NewDay  cant 
locate it) but I can see from NewDays contact notes  that at one time she did raise concerns 
about the way she was spoken to on a previous call. I cant be certain what  was discussed 
or whether NewDay acted  inappropriately and its disappointing NewDay dont have a copy  
of this call, particularly as it should  have responded to these issues  at the time.  I think it 
could have done more at this stage and Miss M was clearly very upset with what had 
happened. I think in the circumstances it ought  to pay a further  £100  for the upset and 
inconvenience it caused. 
Ive considered that Miss M has reported getting  into financial difficulty  only a few months  
after NewDay increased her credit limit in November 2018. Having reviewed the contact 
notes, it seems that Miss M initially told NewDay she was struggling because  she wasnt  
working due to her health. She later explained  she was working but had overcommitted on 
her expenditure since the increase to her credit  limit. 
But her overall debt exposure  hadnt changed during  that time and the outstanding  balance 
on her credit  card was broadly the same in January 2019 as it was in October 2018 (around 
£2,300). While  it did briefly increase in between that time, she had managed  to bring  it down 
again. So given what shes said about  her work and her overall debt situation, Im not 
persuaded the final limit increase did impact her financial  difficulty. It seems it was more 
likely to do with a change  in her personal circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN500308410Lastly, Miss M says NewDay  increased  her interest  rate unfairly which  caused  her more 
difficulty in paying  off her debts. The terms and conditions  of the credit card allow NewDay  to 
increase the rate of interest under certain circumstances. Where it does so it should notify 
the cardholder  and give them the opportunity to opt out of that increase. I can see that 
NewDay did so here. Miss M could have chosen to not accept the interest  rate increase and 
just pay off the credit card at the old rate, however this would have prevented her from 
spending further on the card. It doesnt  appear that Miss M opted to take this option. Taking 
into account all the circumstances  Ive not seen any reason to say NewDay  acted unfairly in 
increasing the interest rate.  
Ref: DRN5003084