K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V say Connells  Limited  mis-sold them payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs V were  sold the PPI policy when  they applied for a mortgage  in 2001.
They say they were led to believe PPI was a mandatory requirement  in order for their loan 
application to be accepted. 
Mr and Mrs V complained to this service. Our adjudicator did not uphold their complaint. The 
adjudicator explained that when this policy was sold in 2001, Connells  was a member  of the 
Mortgage Code  Compliance Board (MCCB). As a result, complaints were dealt with by the 
Mortgage Code  Arbitration  Scheme (MCAS). And the adjudicator concluded that we could 
only consider this complaint to the same extent that MCAS wouldve been  able to at the time 
of the sale.
The adjudicator decided they couldnt  uphold the complaint on the limited basis  which  
wouldve been covered by the MCAS. Mr and Mrs V disagreed with the adjudicators  view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having looked  at all the evidence and information on this basis, Im not going to uphold      
Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. I know this will disappoint them  but I hope the reasons Im about 
to give help them to understand  why Ive reached  this conclusion. 
I need to look at three questions to decide Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. They  are:
Am I allowed to look at Mr and Mrs Vs complaint against Connells?
If so, how much  of Mr and Mrs Vs complaint can I look at?
Did Connells breach  the Mortgage  Code?
am I allowed to look at Mr and Mrs Vs complaint against Connells?  
The sale and marketing  of insurance  (including  PPI) first became an activity  regulated  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) on 14 January 2005. That means  this service can look at 
complaints about  the sale of insurance products  from that date. But the sale of                     
Mr and Mrs Vs PPI was in 2001,  which was before that date. So Connells was not, and did 
not need to be, authorised  by the FCA to sell insurance. 
We can look at PPI sales before 14 January 2005 for businesses  like Connells only when,  
and to the extent,  they were covered by one of the schemes that existed before then  these 
are known as former schemes. Connells was a member of the MCCB from 2 March 1998 
to 30 October 2004. This means  complaints  about it could be looked  at by the Mortgage 
Code Arbitration Scheme  (MCAS)  which is one of the former schemes.  But I can only look 
Ref: DRN59183682at complaints about events that happened  during this time if Connells then went  on to be 
covered by our scheme. Our records show it was covered by our scheme from 31 October 
2004. 
This means  I can look at complaints about  Connells for events that happened  during the 
time it was a member  of the MCCB  including the sale of PPI to Mr and Mrs V.
how much  of Mr and Mrs Vs complaint can I look at?
As Ive said,  although we were given permission to look at complaints where  a business was 
a member of MCAS,  we can only look at the same  issues the MCAS scheme could look at. 
This means  that when considering Mr and Mrs Vs complaint against Connells, I can only 
look at the points MCAS couldve  looked at. Please see the extract from the rules, below.
(5) Where the former scheme in question  is the MCAS Scheme [Mortgage Code Arbitration 
Scheme], a complainant  is not to be treated as eligible for the purposes of paragraph (2) (d) 
if  
(a) The complaint  does not relate to a breach  of the Mortgage Code; 
(b) the complaint  concerns physical injury,  illness, nervous shock or their consequences;  or
(c) the complainant is claiming  a sum of money  that exceeds £100,000.
Mr and Mrs Vs complaint isnt caught by (b) or (c) above. So I need to look at whether or not 
it relates to a breach of the Mortgage Code before I can continue.
The Mortgage Code  was chiefly concerned with mortgages and secured lending. There  was 
only a very small part of the code that related to insurance. This was in section 3.2 of the 
code and it said:
When providing information to help you to choose a mortgage we will give you the 
following:
a description of any insurance  service which we can arrange  (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and 
whose responsibility  it is to ensure that it is taken  out;
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by 
us;
a general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation  fees,  
arrangement fees, early  repayment charges, legal fees and insurance premiums).
So I can look at Mr and Mrs Vs complaint  but only in relation to what they say about being  
told the PPI wasnt  optional  in other words, that it was a condition of the mortgage   and 
about not being given  good enough information  about its cost
I do understand Mr and Mrs V have  raised  other points about the sale of the policy. But for 
the reasons Ive given Im not allowed to look at anything that isnt covered  by the four points 
Ive referred to.
Ref: DRN59183683did Connells breach the Mortgage  Code?
To breach the Mortgage Code, Connells wouldve  needed to tell Mr and Mrs V they had to 
take PPI to get their mortgage, when  in fact they didnt need to. Mr and Mrs V say the policy 
was sold to them at a meeting and they were led to believe  it was a requirement of the 
mortgage. There are no records of the meeting  other than the mortgage application form. So 
I dont know how the PPI was presented to them. 
I can see the PPI section of the application form had the option  to accept or decline PPI.    
Mr and Mrs V have  accepted the PPI and signed the PPI section of the application form 
separately to the main  mortgage application.  
But I note Mr and Mrs V have not said they didnt agree to the PPI. Their main  complaint 
point is that Connells told them  they needed  to agree to buy it in order to ensure that the 
lender agreed  to the mortgage.  And Ive thought  about this. 
In doing so I must take into account  that the PPI remained in force  for some seven years 
until it was cancelled by Mr and Mrs V in 2008.  If they only applied for the PPI because they 
were told it was necessary to obtain the mortgage I would expect them  to have  questioned  it 
at an early stage once the mortgage had been secured. But Ive seen no evidence that they 
did so until March 2008.
Ive also seen a copy of a letter from Mr and Mrs V dated  March  2008 and addressed to the 
lender. The letter requests that the policy  be cancelled, as we no longer require it. So it 
looks like Mr and Mrs V were aware the policy could  be cancelled. And the letter  of 
cancellation itself doesnt contain  anything to make me think Mr and Mrs V were unhappy at 
having paid the premiums  for seven years.   
While its possible  the Connells representative told Mr and Mrs V they should  take out the 
PPI, Ive not seen  anything  to make me think its more  likely they were  told they had to take 
it. I think its more  likely than not they knew they had a choice about PPI at the time.  So I 
dont think Connells breached the Mortgage Code here.
 
Ive also seen the mortgage offer which set out the PPI premium and the total monthly  
repayments for the mortgage. According  to the Mortgage Code, I only have to see there was 
a general description  of costs, fees or other charges. I think  the mortgage  offer shows  the 
general description of the PPI costs which Mr and Mr V were expected to pay. And I think  
this satisfies the mortgage  code  so I dont think theres been a breach here.
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say Mr and Mrs V werent 
made aware  by Connells  that the PPI was optional or that Connells didnt give them  a 
general description of the cost of the policy. So I dont think theres evidence  here to show  
Connells breached  the Mortgage  Code. And thats why its my decision not to uphold            
Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Ref: DRN59183684Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5918368