K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about the quality of a car she financed using a fixed  sum loan agreement 
with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance.
background
Mrs C acquired  a used car in September 2017  for around £4,000  using finance  provided by 
Hitachi. The car was approximately nine years old and had covered 77,000  miles. 
Mrs C says that she complained to the supplying dealer  soon after taking the car because 
warning lights relating to the cars  engine  had appeared within days.  She says that the 
supplying dealer subsequently  attempted to fix the car multiple times, but warning lights kept 
reoccurring. Mrs C corresponded with the supplying dealer about this, reporting faults in 
November 2017  as well as January, April and July 2018. It appears that during this time the 
supplying dealer replaced an o2 sensor,  an oil sensor, oil switch, fixed  a brake backing plate 
and the timing chain  was replaced by a specialist, commissioned by the supplying  dealer. 
Dissatisfied with the quality of the car, in July 2018 Mrs C raised a complaint with Hitachi.  
She asked  to reject the car on the basis that it was now emitting  a lot of smoke  from the 
exhaust and shed been told that there was a possibility the engine had failed due to a 
broken pipe in the engine, which would cost approximately £2,500  to strip and inspect. She 
gave Hitachi a health check from a franchised dealer well as a statement from an unknown 
source which said the engine had likely failed. The franchised dealers  report said that car 
had covered around 80,000 miles.
Hitachi didnt uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. It said that the franchised dealers report  didnt show 
any evidence of failed  repairs  and suggested  that the car seemed to be in good  working  
order. It also said that the evidence Mrs C had provided to show  that the engine  had failed 
didnt refer to her car specifically, or say where  or when it was inspected and by whom.  It 
said that it didnt  think any of the current faults  with the car were either present or developing 
at the point of sale, so it didnt think Mrs C should  be able to reject  the car. It did, however, 
invite her to provide  further evidence of the faults.  
Mrs C brought a complaint to this service.  She maintained that the car shed  bought was not 
of satisfactory quality. Our investigator  initially upheld the complaint. He said that hed seen 
evidence that Hitachi had been made aware of the faults with the car as early as 
December 2017,  so it wasnt reasonable to expect Mrs C to commission a report  to 
determine whether  the car was of satisfactory  quality  when  it was sold.  He recommended  
Hitachi arranged this and it agreed. 
Subsequently, an independent report was produced. It didnt comment on many of the 
issues Mrs C had raised with the car, but it did say that it featured  a warning light relating to 
oil pressure, and that the cars water pump was faulty so needed replacing. The engineer  
ultimately concluded, on balance, that those faults were likely not present at the point of 
supply.
Our investigator explained that Mrs C should only be able to reject the car if the faults had 
been present  or developing at the point of sale. And given that the engineers report  did not 
support that position, he didnt recommend that Mrs C should be able to reject the car, nor 
uphold her complaint.  
Ref: DRN55947542Mrs C disagreed, so she asked for an ombudsmans decision. The case was passed to me 
to make a decision on it.
It subsequently came to light that Mrs C had sold the car and received £245 for it because  it 
would no longer run. She provided evidence that the car had been sold to a salvage  
company. Mrs C said the mileage was around  82,000 at that point, although contact notes 
Hitachi provided refer to the mileage as being  83,000.
I issued a provisional decision on the case.  In summary, I said;
Mrs Cs contract  with Hitachi is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and one which  our 
service is able to consider  a complaint about.  
In considering Mrs Cs case Ive taken into account relevant law, which,  in this case  is 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. It makes Hitachi responsible for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier under certain conditions.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  is also relevant to this case.  It features an implied 
term that goods supplied need  to be of satisfactory  quality, which is defined as where they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account 
the description of the goods,  the price paid and other relevant circumstances.
In this case, Mrs C was supplied with a car which was around nine years old and had 
travelled 77,000 miles. The cash price of the car was around £4,000. Given the age, price 
paid and mileage  of the car, I think itd be reasonable  to have lower expectations regarding 
the cars  overall  condition and durability than if it had been new, for example. 
Based on what Ive seen  I think its clear  that the car Mrs C was supplied with had a number 
of faults which were present or developing at the point of sale.  But its also clear that Mrs C 
allowed the supplying  dealership the opportunity to rectify those problems  on a number of 
occasions. So, whilst the car was initially likely of unsatisfactory quality, repairs  were  made.
I need to establish whether those repairs were  likely  successful and whether the most  recent  
problems with the car could be attributed to something that wouldve made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply. Establishing whether the repairs  that the 
supplying dealer carried out were  likely  successful  isnt straight  forward now that the car has 
been sold. And the records  of repairs and assessments provided are very limited  and 
somewhat contradictory.  So, Ill have to rely on the evidence that Ive been given by Mrs C, 
Hitachi and independent experts. 
In July 2018 Mrs C provided Hitachi with a statement about the cars condition.  It didnt refer 
to the car specifically,  indicate whose opinion it was, or when it was written, but it said that 
the car likely  had an internal engine failure.  Mrs C also showed a health  check from a 
franchised dealer  dated 6 July 2018  which was somewhat contradictory. It doesnt show any 
significant faults with the car other than items one could attribute to wear  and tear, and 
significantly, it doesnt mention any issues with the engine. 
Ref: DRN55947543Mrs C later provided a quote from the franchised dealer to rebuild the engine dated 
30 July 2018.  It doesnt  say why or whether this is necessary as it is just an estimate, 
although I think it improbable  that the dealer  wouldve  given this estimate  if it didnt consider 
it necessary. When the car was inspected by an independent expert in April 2019, the 
inspection only found that there was a problem with the electric  water pump and the oil 
pressure light was illuminated but could  be rectified by topping  up the oil level.  Ultimately the 
independent inspector concluded those faults were likely not present at the point  of supply. 
Overall, whilst I think the evidence about  the faults present at the point Mrs C brought  her 
complaint to Hitachi is contradictory, I accept that at that point there appears  to have been 
significant problems  with the car. However, Im not persuaded  that those faults  whether 
related to an internal engine failure or a water pump  failure   were present or developing at 
the point of supply. I say this because Mrs C was able to travel  at least 5,000  miles, if not 
more - I say this because  some evidence presents the mileage at less than around  82,000  
miles, but thats  the mileage Mrs C says the car had covered when she sold it, and thats the 
mileage recorded  on the cars MOT which was performed very shortly  after it was sold, so 
Im satisfied that Mrs C was likely able to travel  at least 5,000 miles in the car. Overall, I think 
these specific faults likely  wouldve come  to light earlier than they did if present or 
developing at the point of supply. As a result,  and given the evidence I have been presented, 
Ive not been persuaded that the most recent issues with the car happened  as a result of 
faults the car had at the point of supply. 
Im also not satisfied that the water pump  or internal engine failure can be attributed to 
repairs which the supplying dealer  carried out. I say this for a number for reasons; Ive not 
been provided with any evidence to suggest  that is the case, there  doesnt  appear to be an 
obvious correlation between the repairs which were carried  out and the subsequent failure 
and again, the car appears  to have been able to travel a reasonable distance  taking into 
account the age and mileage of the car  after repairs. I also need to take into account that 
the car in question  has now been sold, so even if I thought Hitachi needed to do more, itd be 
very difficult to recommend a fair remedy here.
In summary,  I accept the car Mrs C was supplied with was likely not of satisfactory  quality at 
the point of supply. However, Im persuaded that the repairs Mrs C allowed the supplying 
dealer to carry out were likely successful and, on balance, didnt contribute  to the faults with 
the car Mrs C made Hitachi aware  of in July 2018. So, I dont think that Hitachi should take 
any further action  in relation to Mrs Cs agreement. 
That being  said,  I think its fair to say that Mrs C was caused  unnecessary  trouble and upset 
because of the issues she experienced with the car. I say this in the most part because  I 
think it wouldve been particularly frustrating and inconvenient for Mrs C to have had 
experienced what appears  to be a number of faults with the car, and had to arrange  a 
number of repairs in relation to those faults. As a result,  I think  that Hitachi  should pay Mrs C 
£250 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been caused.
Mrs C and Hitachi both responded. Neither  party had anything further to add, so the case 
has been passed back to me to make my decision final.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN55947544Given that neither  party  has provided  any further information or evidence  in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from it and therefore make  the findings  and 
recommendation set out above  final.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and require 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Personal  Finance to pay £250 compensation to 
Mrs C.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5594754