K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that DAM Finance Limited (DAM)  hasnt followed his instruction to transfer 
money held with it to another account.
background
Mr B held an account with DAM in one of its trading names. In early 2018 he asked it to 
transfer his money  from this account  to another  account  he holds. When he checked online, 
the requests have  continued to show as pending  and have never completed.
He complained to DAM, but never  received a response, so he brought  his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into it and asked DAM for its response  to the complaint and 
supporting information,  but they too didnt hear from it despite a number of requests chasing 
this. 
So they reached a view based  on what they did have, which was that DAM should transfer 
the money in the way Mr B asked it to and that it was unfair that it hadnt  done this when Mr 
B asked.  Our investigator said that they thought itd be fair that DAM released the full 
amount Mr B wanted  to transfer, along  with awarding 8% interest on the amount  calculated 
from the date Mr B first tried to transfer  the money. He also said that DAM should pay Mr B 
£150 to compensate him for the impact  this had had on him.
Mr B agreed with this, but DAM never responded. On that basis  this complaint was passed 
to me to reach a decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service has asked DAM on a number  of occasions, over a long period of time,  for its 
response to Mr Bs complaint. But despite  all of these attempts to contact it, we have never 
heard anything substantive from DAM. That means  that I have to reach my decision based 
on the evidence  I do have.
That evidence is Mr Bs testimony of what happened  alongside  his supporting  evidence.  He 
says he wanted  to transfer his money  from DAM to another account and from all Ive seen, 
thats a legitimate request  here. Hes shown a recent screenshot  of his account  with DAM 
showing that his requests  to transfer  funds  are still pending, which is consistent with what 
hes told this service  about his intentions here.
A business like DAM should generally follows its customers instructions unless theres good 
reason not to do so. Despite our requests, DAM hasnt shown any reason that it hasnt 
carried out Mr Bs transfers. So it follows that I think its fair and reasonable that DAM should 
have done this when Mr B asked. 
DAM should also pay 8% interest on the amounts hes asked to transfer, from the date Mr B 
made the requests, to the date this decision is accepted. Hes been deprived of this money 
and clearly wanted to gain access to it, so I think this is fair to put this part of his complaint 
right. I also think its fair DAM pays Mr B £150  for the trouble and inconvenience  this will 
have caused him.
Ref: DRN56190142I am aware  that DAM has been  the subject of some  legal  proceedings in another country. I 
make no comment  on that here.  But this service still has the ability  to make a decision on the 
complaint Mr B has referred to us in these individual circumstances  and Im satisfied its right 
to do so here. If DAM doesnt follow this decision,  then Mr B will need to seek  legal advice 
on enforcing this separately. 
Alternatively, he can look into making a claim in line with the recent legal action Ive 
mentioned  but thats for him to decide.  Id hope this isnt necessary, but whatever the 
outcome, I hope that Mr B is able to gain closure  on the matter in some way.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. DAM Finance Limited  should:
complete Mr Bs requests to transfer his money in the way hes requested
pay 8% interest from the date Mr B instructed the transfers  until the date of 
settlement
pay Mr B £150 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5619014