K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc provided  poor service  when processing a number of 
transactions on her account. Mrs C is represented in this complaint by Mrs R.
background
Mrs R has power  of attorney (poa) for Mrs C and she complains about the repeated  poor 
service she received from Santander  over a period of some six weeks  when making  
payments on Mrs Cs behalf.
Mrs R registered her poa with Santander  and then set up a standing  order on Mrs Cs 
account. Santander later identified  the standing order  as possibly fraudulent  and it restricted 
access to the account. Consequently a cheque to pay for Mrs Cs care was stopped, 
although the bank hadnt notified Mrs R of its concerns about the standing order.
Mrs R therefore complained to the bank and it paid her £100 compensation.
Santander then stopped  the cheque for a second time. When Mrs R complained  this again 
the bank said that its back  office staff had mistakenly cancelled  the chequebook.  But it 
hadnt then informed Mrs R as it should  have  done,  or sent a replacement chequebook. 
Santander paid Mrs R a further £80 for its poor service.
And then a couple of weeks later Santander blocked  a payment Mrs R had authorised, but 
didnt contact her to let her know what it had done.  Mrs R complained a third time, and the 
bank paid her £75.
Mrs R complained to us because she felt that the compensation shed received didnt 
adequately reflect the problems Santander had caused her.
In summary,  our investigator upheld Mrs Rs complaint but thought that the compensation 
paid by Santander had been fair and reasonable.  She therefore didnt consider that the bank 
should do any more.
Mrs R asked for an ombudsmans  decision as she continued to believe that Santanders 
compensation payments had been inadequate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks  are very aware of the increasing  volume  of fraudulent  transactions being attempted 
on their customers  accounts. Consequently they all use automated computer systems to 
detect potentially fraudulent transactions. And sometimes  these  systems  unfortunately 
identify genuine  payments  as suspicious.  
Santander has said that this was the reason Mrs Rs first and third payments were stopped. 
And although this inconvenienced Mrs R, Im afraid I cannot reasonably criticise  Santander 
for actions  it takes to protect its customers accounts  even though in this case the 
transactions it blocked proved to be genuine.  But where I do criticise the bank is in not 
contacting Mrs R to tell her what had happened.  Instead  it put the onus on Mrs R to make  
contact and she consequently had to spend a long time on the phone trying to resolve  
Ref: DRN56505472matters. Santander  has admitted  its service was poor and has made  compensatory  
payments to Mrs R.
Mrs Rs second complaint related to a failed  payment, which  Santander has said resulted 
from its staff mistakenly cancelling her chequebook. And here again the bank didnt contact  
Mrs R, and she decided to visit a branch to sort out what had gone wrong.
Santander has agreed that on all three occasions the service it provided Mrs R should have 
been better than it was, and it has paid her a total of £255.  I know  Mrs R thinks this amount 
insufficient recompense  for the trouble she has been put to and the time she has spent 
dealing with what happened, but having considered the detail of her complaint I consider 
£255 to be fair and reasonable compensation. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, but do not require Santander UK Plc to do more  
than it already has.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5650547