K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained about the information U K Insurance Limited  has recorded on the 
Central Underwriting  Exchange (CUE)  database about an incident she reported under her 
car insurance policy. 
background
Mrs D was involved in an incident in December 2017 which  wasnt her fault. She initially  
asked her insurer, UKI to deal with her claim for repairs to her car. But Mrs D was unhappy 
with the service she received from UKI. Mrs D made alternative arrangements and 
complained to UKI. In February 2018  UKI upheld her complaint and paid Mrs D 
compensation of £200.
The renewal  date approached for Mrs Ds policy  and she decided  to renew her policy with 
another insurer. But her new insurer said because UKI had recorded the compensation 
amount of £200  under the non fault incident as a claim cost, this made  a difference to the 
premium it charged her. So Mrs D said her new insurer increased her premium by £250.  
Mrs D was unhappy about this as she said the compensation  UKI paid her had nothing to do 
with the incident. But UKI said it had correctly recorded the incident as non fault and 
Mrs Ds No Claims Discount (NCD) was correctly showing as allowed  so this showed it 
hadnt been affected by the incident. UKI checked  with CUE and told Mrs D it has to record  
all payments related  to the claim. UKI said it couldnt  be accountable for how Mrs Ds new 
insurer interpreted the information held on CUE. UKI said if Mrs Ds current  insurer contacts 
it, it will be happy to explain what the payment  relates to. 
Mrs D remained  unhappy, and so she asked us to look at her complaint. She didnt think  it 
fair that shes being penalised by her current insurer  and potentially  future insurers   for an 
incident that wasnt her fault - and for a compensation payment for UKIs poor service to her. 
Mrs D believes  UKI has incorrectly recorded the information on CUE and wants  it to remove  
the £200 from the CUE record.
Our investigator initially recommended Mrs Ds complaint be upheld. But UKI disagreed. It 
explained that it had correctly recorded the information on CUE and in line with our 
approach. 
Our investigator sent Mrs D and UKI an updated view. She thought UKI had acted 
reasonably. She asked  UKI if it would provide  Mrs D with a letter  confirming the £200 
payment was compensation and not related to claim costs   so Mrs D could provide this to 
her current   and future insurers.  
UKI has done this. Mrs D remains unhappy. She says she is the one who will be 
inconvenienced over the next five years  and this feels unfair. So she wants an ombudsman 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN52809542I understand Mrs D is frustrated with the way her complaint  has been dealt with. But I think 
UKI has acted correctly. 
Most insurers have an agreement to share information about incidents and claims on CUE. 
Part of this agreement is to record all costs related to the claim  so this includes any 
compensation costs.  Its not for us to tell an insurer how it records  costs  on CUE  unless 
the costs are disputed  and show extreme  differences.  
I appreciate that Mrs D doesnt feel she should  be penalised by having to pay a higher 
premium to her current insurer because these costs  have  been recorded by UKI. But 
because it isnt UKI that has increased  Mrs Ds premium, I cant  consider the actions of her 
current insurer in my decision. I can only consider whether UKI acted reasonably.  
UKI recorded the compensation costs of £200 which it paid to Mrs D  but it also recorded 
the incident as non fault and that Mrs Ds NCD wasnt  affected. So I dont think UKI has 
acted unreasonably. 
Mrs D said the letter UKI provided her with has errors. I can see UKI sent another letter  to 
Mrs D the following day. UKI apologised for the incorrect information in its previous letter and 
confirmed that the payment of £200 was a compensation award.  It said the payment would 
have no impact on her policy or her NCD. 
I understand Mrs D feels she will be inconvenienced  by the way UKI has made  a record on 
CUE. But I cant say that its done  this incorrectly. If Mrs D feels  the increase in premium her 
current insurer has charged her is unfair,  shes entitled to raise her concerns with them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5280954