K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI):
1.provided poor customer service when  he had issues  with his central heating boiler 
and called on BGI under his home emergency policy;  and
2.shut down  his central heating boiler as dangerous which led him to replace it 
unnecessarily.
background
Mr B owned  a property  which was rented  to tenants. He took out a home emergency 
insurance policy with BGI to cover the boiler  and central heating system  at the property. In 
December 2017  his boiler stopped working  and he called on BGI under his policy.
BGIs engineer came initially on 13 December 2017. But in the course of carrying  out the 
repairs BGI missed several  appointments and left Mr Bs tenants without heating over the 
Christmas period. The boiler was finally repaired on 30 December 2017.
On 18 January 2018, another  BGI engineer arrived at the property to carry out an annual 
service on the boiler. He said the boiler  casing had badly corroded.  He classified the boiler  
as immediately dangerous  and capped it to prevent further use.
Mr B was left with the impression that he needed  to replace the boiler.  He says he phoned 
BGI to ask when it would be able to send someone  to sort it, and was told it would be at 
least a month. BGI didnt  tell him the boiler  might not need to be replaced.
Faced with the need to provide heating for his tenants Mr B instructed a third party heating 
engineer, whom Ill call T, to replace his boiler  at a cost of £2,058.  Only when this had been 
done did T tell Mr B that the old boiler  could have been  repaired. 
Mr B complained to BGI. It accepted his complaint about poor customer service  initially  and 
offered him compensation of £280 for this, which Mr B accepted.
BGI said that because  of the boilers  condition its engineer was right to stop it being  used on 
18 January 2018.  But BGI hadnt advised Mr B to replace the boiler. If he had queried this 
with BGI, it would have  arranged a second  opinion to see if the boiler could be repaired 
rather than replaced.
Instead Mr B had instructed T to replace  his boiler.  So BGI didnt agree that it should 
contribute to the replacement cost.
Our adjudicator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He thought the 
compensation BGI had offered for the service issues was fair in the circumstances.  However 
BGIs engineer told Mr B the boiler  was unsafe and he capped the gas supply so he couldnt 
use it. Because BGI didnt tell him at the time the boiler was repairable, the investigator 
didnt think it was unreasonable  for Mr B to conclude it was dangerous and needed 
replacing.
Mr B said that had he been  given correct information  at the time he would have repaired the 
boiler and wouldnt  have incurred the cost of replacing it. He now had a new boiler in his 
Ref: DRN52828822property. The investigator also thought  T should perhaps have told Mr B the boiler didnt 
need replacing before installing the new boiler.
Because of this, and the fact Mr B would have  the benefit of a new boiler in the property, the 
investigator thought  BGI should  contribute  half the replacement cost of the boiler, that is 
£1,029, subject to Mr B producing an invoice  showing  the replacement  cost.
Mr B accepted the adjudicators recommendation. BGI responded to say, in summary, that it 
would have expected Mr B to contact it when he became aware the boiler was repairable.  It 
would have visited the property to ensure its initial diagnosis was correct. It also thought  T 
was in a position to have  stopped the installation.
BGI did accept it had got things wrong. Mr B now had the benefit of a new boiler. While the 
existing boiler might  have  been repairable, it was old and would have needed to be replaced 
sooner rather than later. So BGI offered  compensation of one third of the replacement  cost 
(£617.40) in addition  to the £280  it had already offered.
Mr B didnt accept this offer. So this complaint has been passed  to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  I think  the £280  compensation BGI offered  for the service  issues  was 
reasonable in the circumstances, and Mr B has accepted this. So I wont comment  further  on 
that part of the complaint.
No mention was made of the boiler  casing being  corroded and dangerous by BGIs 
engineers who worked  on the boiler in December 2017. It therefore  came as a shock to Mr B 
to be told on 18 January 2018 that it was so dangerous that use must  stop immediately. 
BGIs engineer didnt  suggest the boiler  might  be repairable.  Mr B says he did contact BGI to 
see when someone  could come and sort it, but was told it would  be at least  a month.
I dont understand  BGIs comment that Mr B should  have contacted it when he became 
aware that the boiler was repairable. According to Mr B this only happened after the new 
boiler had been installed.  So Im not sure what BGI could have done at that stage.
In the circumstances he was faced with on 18 January 2018,  and in the light of BGIs  recent  
service failings, I dont think Mr B acted unreasonably  in arranging for T to quickly install a 
replacement boiler.  I note the invoice for this, which Mr B has supplied to this service, is 
dated 23 January  2018.
I agree  that Mr B has the benefit of a new boiler in place of one which  he probably would 
have to have replaced anyway  before too long. T could perhaps have told Mr B sooner that 
the old boiler could be repaired.  But I dont know the circumstances of what  he was 
instructed to do.
All in all, like the adjudicator, I think its fair and reasonable that BGI reimburse Mr B one half 
of the cost the replacement boiler  - £1,029,  in addition  to the £280 it has already  offered. I 
also think BGI should pay Mr B interest  on this £1,029 at the yearly rate of 8% simple, from 
the date he paid the invoice for the replacement boiler until settlement.
Ref: DRN52828823my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr B:
1.compensation of £280 for its poor service, unless it has already paid this;
2.£1,029, being half the replacement cost of the boiler; and
3.interest on £1,029  at the yearly rate of 8% simple, from the date Mr B paid the 
invoice for the replacement boiler until settlement. (1)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
(1)  If BGI considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5282882