K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I sent Mr L and Halifax  a provisional decision  saying  I didnt think  the PPI was mis-sold but 
Halifax had offered to pay back some  of the cost.  I said Id consider anything else Mr L or 
Halifax wanted to give me by 24 May 2019. Mr L and Halifax  havent sent me anything else.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr L took out the credit card at a branch and the PPI was added at the same time. What we 
know of how Halifax normally sold PPI policies in meetings like this makes  me think Halifax  
wouldve asked Mr L whether he wanted the PPI  and added  it to his application only after 
hed said he wanted  it. Mr L doesnt  think this happened in his case. He says he wasnt 
aware PPI was on the card.  But Mr Ls credit  card application form has a box to request the 
PPI. It says the box should be marked if the PPI - Credit Card  Repayments Insurance - is 
wanted. On Mr Ls form, which he signed, this box is marked. With this in mind, I think  its 
likely Halifax made Mr L aware he was taking the PPI - and he agreed to take it. And taking 
everything into account, I think its likely Mr L agreed to the PPI knowing he didnt have to  
but I can understand why he might not remember this, given how long ago the sale was.
If Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr L it had to do more and check  the PPI was right for 
him. And Halifax thinks it did recommend the PPI. So I think  its fair to assess things on that 
basis  which places  on Halifax  a higher  level of responsibility for the sale.  But based on 
what Ive seen of Mr Ls circumstances at the time,  I think the PPI was right for him. 
For example, Mr L wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so 
he couldve  claimed on the cover if the circumstances  arose. Also Mr L seems  to have had a 
need for the cover. From what hes told us, his work sick pay would  halve after six months  
and he didnt have  savings or anything  else to help with his payments if he was too sick to 
work. For a successful disability or unemployment  claim  the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 
twelve months for disability and ten months  for unemployment  on top of Mr Ls work pay.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take the cover - so it looks to me like he wanted this type of 
cover. And, for the reasons  Ive given above, it seems like the cover would have been useful 
for Mr L if something went wrong.  Taking  everything  into account, I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr L off taking the cover.
Ive thought about all the points made earlier  by Mr L and on his behalf,  including about 
retirement and part-time working.  But when he took the card there was enough time before  
Mr Ls retirement for him to benefit  from the full policy  benefit.  And bearing  in mind the salary 
Ref: DRN52083802on his card application, I think Mr Ls work hours  were likely enough to make him eligible for 
the cover. With all Ive said above  in mind and for the reasons Ive given,  Mr Ls points dont 
change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr L paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Mr L back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr L now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5208380