K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is complaining about Knighthood Corporate Assurance Services  Limited in her 
capacity as executrix of the estate of Mr C. She complains that Mr C was mis-sold an 
annuity policy as it didnt provide sufficient dependant benefits in the event of his death.
background
Mr C received advice from Knighthood in late 2010 and early 2011  to purchase an annuity 
policy on a single life basis with a guarantee period of ten years.
Sadly, Mr C passed away in June 2017.
Mrs C complained to Knighthood about the advice her husband received. She didnt think  it 
was appropriate  as the annuity didnt provide financially for his dependant(s) beyond  the ten 
year guarantee period. She claimed for the losses to the estate, and so as his dependant, 
she had lost out because of this.
Knighthood didnt uphold  the complaint. They said they were  satisfied that the options 
available to Mr C were  explained to him and that he understood the implications of choosing  
a single life annuity. They also explained that Mr C had told them  that Mrs C was financially 
secure and so wasnt a dependent  at the time of advice. But even if this was incorrect  
which Mrs C contests  it was reasonable for them to rely upon the information he provided.
The complaint was referred  to our service.  Our investigator didnt think the advice Mr C 
received was unsuitable as he thought  Knighthood  had made reasonable recommendations 
based on his circumstances. He explained Knighthood  had discussed  different options 
including joint life annuities  but it was Mr Cs decision to take it on a single life basis.  He also 
said Knighthoods  records show Mr C had told them  that Mrs C wouldnt be affected 
financially by his premature death. And he considered it reasonable for Knighthood to rely on 
the information Mr C gave them. 
Mrs C disagreed and so the matter has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate how strongly Mrs C feels about this matter and I dont underestimate  the impact  
this may have on her financially in the future. But while  I know this will come as a 
disappointment to her, I dont think Knighthood gave  Mr C unsuitable advice or that they mis-
sold the annuity. Ill explain why.
The information available from the time of sale shows  that Knighthood  discussed various 
options with Mr C including  annuities on a single or joint life basis, as well as the option of 
taking benefits  via drawdown. They also provided him with a booklet that explained the 
different retirement  options available so that he could consider what  was best for him.
When exploring the option of an annuity, Knighthood  took in to account Mr Cs health and 
lifestyle to see if he was eligible for an enhanced rate. I understand Mr C received a better  
rate and therefore a higher income as a result of this. I think  this was appropriate in the 
Ref: DRN52068072circumstances and it demonstrates that Knighthood acted in Mr Cs best interests by 
searching the market  for the most  competitive annuity rate for him. 
Mrs C argues that Knighthood failed  to provide appropriate advice in respect of the benefits 
that would  be provided to his dependants in the event of his death.  Shes  explained that her 
husband had very little knowledge about  pensions  and so he wouldnt  have  understood the 
implications of his choice. 
I wasnt present at the meetings between  Mr C and Knighthood. I therefore cant  be sure 
what was discussed  or to what extent Mr C understood  the information  that he was given 
about the different retirement options available. Ive taken in to account  what Mrs C has said 
but, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied  Knighthood gave appropriate advice to Mr C  based  
on what he told them - in respect of dependant benefits.
Knighthood has provided file notes that show Mr C told them  that Mrs C wasnt financially 
dependent on him and that she had sufficient capital in her own right. They  also show that 
Knighthood discussed the impact  a single or joint life annuity would have on the income hed 
receive as well as the amount payable to his dependants in the event of his death. The notes 
show that Mr C was encouraged to think about  this matter carefully and to discuss it with Mrs 
C as it wasnt straightforward.
I appreciate Mrs C says this is incorrect as she was financially dependent  on her husband. 
And that shes suggested that her husband  may not have fully grasped the financial needs of 
his dependants at the time. While  that might be true, I dont think  it would be fair to hold 
Knighthood responsible for that. I think it was reasonable for them  to advise Mr C based  on 
the information he gave them. And although  I understand  Mrs C thinks  Knighthood ought to 
have taken steps to verify what he said, I dont think this was necessary or something Id 
expect. I believe it was reasonable  for them to accept what Mr C told them  in good faith.
I therefore consider  the actions taken by Knighthood were reasonable in the circumstances 
and that they took appropriate steps  to ensure Mr C understood  the implications of the 
decision he was making. So while Mrs C has said he was financially nave and that he 
wouldve been heavily  guided by what Knighthood told him, Ive not seen anything to show  
theyve acted wrongly here.
I also think its worth noting that Mr C chose to include a ten year guarantee period. And that 
a file note shows  he was aware this guarantee would give back something if he died in that 
time. So from this, Im satisfied that he had some  understanding  of the annuity he was 
setting up and what this would mean  in the event of his death  within  ten years.
So while I sympathise with Mrs C, Im satisfied Mr C was aware of the option to take a joint 
life annuity and that he was provided  the relevant information to make an informed decision. 
It is unfortunate for Mrs C that he chose to take it on a single life basis but, for the reasons 
Ive explained,  I dont think Knighthood gave unsuitable advice  or mis-sold the annuity policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L on behalf of 
the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Ref: DRN52068073Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5206807