K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc sent her a new credit  card when it shouldnt have. 
She wants it to clear the debt she owes as a result  of spending she carried out on the card.
background 
Mrs P banks with Santander, and also has one of its credit cards. In May 2014,  Mrs P fell 
behind with her credit  card payments, and had a number of conversations  with Santander 
about it. Santander stopped charging interest  or fees on the debt (which was about  £1,500)  
and Mrs P continued making monthly payments.
During this period Santanders notes recorded that Mrs P had disclosed she was suffering  
from bi-polar disorder,  and that she wasnt using her card.
The account  continued in the same vein, with monthly payments slowly reducing the balance 
but no new purchases being  made. Then, in January 2018, Santander sent Mrs P a new 
credit card for the account as the previous one had expired. She proceeded to make a 
number of purchases over the following months,  although the statements show  she later 
returned a number of items for refunds.  But overall  Mrs P spent about  £4,800  on her card.
She then complained to Santander.  She said her bi-polar disorder meant  shed struggled  
with addictive  behaviours  including  an inability to control her spending.  This meant shed had 
to be very careful about what money and credit she was able to access,  which she said 
shed told Santander  about before. She said it shouldnt have sent a new credit card when 
her old one expired,  especially as shed not used the card for nearly four years.
Santander didnt  think it was wrong  for it to have  sent a new card when the previous one 
expired, as there wasnt anything on its systems  to indicate the usual process shouldnt be 
followed. But it acknowledged the difficult situation  Mrs P found  herself  in due to her medical 
condition, and said it would stop charging  interest  or fees (and refund any recent  charges). It 
said it would  be willing to discuss  an affordable repayment plan for the debt once Mrs P 
completed an income and expenditure form.
Santander acknowledged that around March 2018  it should have reinstated  Mrs Ps direct 
debit while  repayment  options were being  discussed. It took it a few months to do so, and 
while this didnt result  in any loss to Mrs P (as charges and interest  had been  frozen)  it 
offered to pay her £50 to say sorry.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought  Santander ought to have been 
aware it should have  done things differently with Mrs P due to the records of what had 
happened when  she got into arrears in 2014. She thought Santander should have at least 
contacted Mrs P before sending a new card in 2018 and said it should pay her a further  
£300. 
Santander agreed, but Mrs P didnt  and she asked for an ombudsman to decide  the matter.  
She explained the impact this additional  debt had had on her and the additional stress and 
worry it had caused.  She didnt think  the compensation the investigator had recommended  
was fair compensation given everything  that had happened. 
I issued a provisional decision, saying  I thought  Santander needed to do more. I said:
Ref: DRN57575782The central issue for me to decide here is to what extent Santander was aware of 
Mrs Ps condition  and the way it might influence her relationship with debt, and 
whether that meant it should have  stepped  outside  its usual  processes  when  her 
previous credit card expired.
Mrs P says shed discussed  this with Santander before 2018, but Santander initially  
said it didnt know anything about  Mrs Ps condition and its impact on her until she 
complained recently.  Theres no definitive  evidence showing a conversation about 
these issues took place earlier than 2018.  But, on balance, I think it did. I say that 
taking into account:
Mrs P spoke  to various departments of Santander (its current account team, credit 
card services  and collections) between May and August 2014.
In April 2014 Mrs P changed  her current account  to one which  didnt charge overdraft 
interest and also attempts to stop payments, in order to avoid the account going  into 
an unarranged  overdraft.
The file notes from May 2014  record  that Mrs P advised  she has bi-polar.
In August 2014 Mrs Ps account came  out of Santanders specialist unit for customers  
in financial difficulty, resulting in a broad hold on the account being  removed. But the 
notes say Santander informed Mrs P at that time there was still a block on the card. 
Mrs P is recorded as saying she wasnt using the card.
Thats supported  by there being  no spending activity from March  2014 until the new 
card arrived  in January  2018.
There are no contact  notes from August 2014  until 2018, and it isnt clear  when and 
why that block  was removed. But it appears  a replacement card - due to be sent in 
August 2015  was prevented from being sent out due to the block  on the account.
So taking all this into account,  I think that on balance Mrs P talked to Santander in 
2014 about her condition,  and the trouble it might cause her if she had access  to too 
much credit. Santander  seemed  to take steps  to help her with this at the time by 
blocking her account,  and Ive not seen any evidence to explain why that wouldnt 
have continued  to be the case in 2018.  Based on everything Ive seen  so far, I dont 
think Santander treated  Mrs P fairly  by sending her a new credit  card.  I think the 
evidence suggests  it was aware  or ought  to have been  that access  to credit was 
something that was a trigger for Mrs Ps addictive  tendencies resulting from her 
medical condition.  And so I dont think it should have  sent her a new card without 
speaking to her first. It follows  that Santander shouldnt have sent Mrs P a new credit 
card in January  2018. 
The question remains how it should  put things right for her. And I dont think  thats 
straightforward in this case,  and is something Ive thought about very carefully. Id like 
to emphasise that Ive decided fair compensation in light of the very particular facts  of 
this case. My decision doesnt set any kind of precedent and is a reflection of what  I 
think is fair and reasonable given the unique set of circumstances surrounding what 
happened to Mrs P.
Mrs P has been left with a substantial debt which, given her financial circumstances, 
shell struggle  to repay. She wouldnt owe this money but for Santander sending her a 
credit card which I dont think it should have.
Ive also taken into account that Mrs P owes this money because she bought  things 
using the card  and so will have the benefit  of the use of those things. But in this 
Ref: DRN57575783particular case,  Im satisfied this is a benefit  Mrs P didnt really want, and that her 
spending on the card was directly attributable to her medical condition.
Ive also thought about the upset this experience has caused Mrs P. Shes consistently 
and persuasively  explained about the struggles shes  had with her condition  and the 
effect its had on her personal  life. As Ive detailed above, the evidence supports her 
assertion that shed  taken a number of different  steps to prevent herself getting into 
situations where her addictive behaviour could cause her harm.  And Ive also 
considered her actions  after making the purchases on her card in early 2018. Im 
satisfied that she very quickly attempted to mitigate  the amount she owed on her credit  
card by returning those  items she was able to for a refund.
Santander had already  agreed to pay Mrs P £50, and our investigator recommended it 
pay her a further £300. I dont think that fairly compensates Mrs P for Santanders error 
and the impact it had on her. Mrs P wants Santander to clear  the debt shes accrued 
since 2018, but I dont think thats  the fair answer  here, either. Bearing in mind  what 
Ive said above,  Mrs P has received goods and services in return  for the money shes 
spent on her credit card. And so Ive taken that into account when deciding  what  fair 
compensation looks like.
Overall, the impact on Mrs P  and the amount  of stress and worry shes been caused 
 is directly related  to the debt shes accrued. And thats a debt she tried to avoid 
allowing herself  to take out, and wouldnt have done  but for Santanders  mistake. In 
the particular circumstances  of this case I think fair compensation  would be for 
Santander to credit Mrs Ps account  with half the amount shes  spent on her card since 
January 2018  (allowing  for any refunds shes received).
In terms of repaying the rest of the balance, Im pleased  to see Santander has already 
been positive  and sympathetic to Mrs Ps situation  by freezing charges and interest 
and offering to discuss a repayment plan. Id encourage Mrs P to speak to Santander 
and go through  her income and expenditure, if shes  not already done so, in order  to 
reach an agreement  on repaying the rest of her debt.
Santander accepted my provisional findings,  and Mrs P said she didnt have anything  to add, 
either.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional arguments or evidence  in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions.  I therefore  
make the same findings here, and make them final.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. Santander  
UK Plc should  calculate the amount Mrs P has spent on her credit card since January 2018, 
deducting any amounts she has been  refunded. It should apply a payment to her credit card 
account equal to half the resulting  figure.
Ref: DRN57575784Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5757578