K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to credit  £1,000  to her credit card 
account after shed  she deposited £1,000 in cash at a branch of Barclays.  Shed like a 
refund of the £1,000  thats gone missing.
background
Miss H is represented in this complaint by her mother. Miss H says that sometime between  
early November 2018 and the middle of December 2018 she went  to a branch of Barclays 
and deposited  £1,000  in cash over the counter into her Barclaycard account.  She thought 
the transaction had gone through successfully  so she no longer has her receipt.
In the middle of December she contacted Barclaycard on a different matter  and she found 
out the balance on her credit card account  was higher than expected. And she realised that 
the £1,000 shed paid in cash hadnt  been  credited to her credit  card account.
She complained to Barclays but it didnt uphold  her complaint. It said the branch manager 
had checked the banks  CCTV footage for the dates  and times Miss H had given but it was 
unable to confirm  Miss H had been at the branch.  It also completed other internal checks  but 
couldnt find any discrepancies.
As Barclays was unable to find Miss H on the CCTV footage and its internal checks didnt  
show any discrepancies  it said it would be unable to continue its investigation further.  
Barclays asked Miss H for further information  to try to narrow down the dates. It asked 
Miss H what shed done before visiting the branch and whod served  her. But Miss Hs 
replies didnt help as she was unable  to give exact dates and the information  she gave about 
whod served her wasnt consistent.
Barclays thinks its assisted Miss H as much as it can. But Miss H thinks  Barclays  should 
look at its CCTV footage during all opening  hours between  the dates shes  given.
Unhappy with Barclays response Miss H referred her complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator didnt  recommend her complaint should be upheld.
The investigator explained that the time-frame Miss H had given to Barclays - early 
November 2018  to mid December 2018  is long with many thousands of transactions 
conducted through the branch during that period. To trace one transaction  among them 
would be difficult without  specific  information.  Our investigator concluded that Barclays had 
made reasonable attempts to assist Miss H.
Miss H disagrees with the investigators  view. She thinks Barclays should  view all its CCTV 
footage for the range of dates Miss H had given  and not just the times and dates Miss H 
had initially  asked Barclays to look at.
After the investigator  issued his view, Barclays sent a CD of its CCTV images to this service.  
Unfortunately our IT department hasnt  been  able to view it. Our investigator didnt think  it 
was reasonable  for Barclays to review all the CCTV images at the time of the complaint 
because it would involve  going through 30 days of footage equating to 240 hours.
Miss H disagrees with the investigators  view. A lot of money  has gone missing  and it should  
be treated as theft. Shes  asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN55665922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im afraid I agree with the 
outcome reached  by our investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I appreciate £1,000 is a lot of money so I can understand why Miss H feels  Barclays should 
have done more to help her find the missing  funds. But as the investigator has already 
explained Barclays processes many  thousands  of transactions each day. So its difficult  for 
Barclays to pin-point Miss Hs particular transaction without more  detailed information of 
when she deposited  the cash.
Im not criticising Miss H for being unable to recall the exact date she visited  the branch. But 
with the limited information  Miss H was able to provide, this in turn, limited what  Barclays  
could do to help her.
In the circumstances Im satisfied Barclays made  reasonable efforts  to assist Miss H. So Im 
satisfied it treated her fairly. I say this because I can see that Barclays:-
viewed its CCTV images  for the dates and times Miss H originally requested;
checked its till audit  for the missing £1,000;
checked its rejected  entries account  for the missing  £1,000;
it tried to help Miss H narrow down the dates when shed visited  the branch   by 
checking what she did before she attended the branch but her answers werent  
conclusive; and
it tried to help Miss H narrow down whod  served  her  but her recollection wasnt 
clear.
I appreciate its disappointing that our IT department hasnt been  able to view the CD of the 
CCTV footage  provided by Barclays. But I dont  think  it would be reasonable for Barclays to 
view all of the CCTV footage for the entire date range Miss H gave and during all opening 
hours for the reasons  the investigator  has explained.
And even  if it could be viewed Im not confident it would help. It might show  Miss H visited  
the branch on a particular day and at a particular time but I doubt it would clearly identify that 
she deposited £1,000 in cash.
It follows from the above I do not uphold this complaint. I realise  Miss H will be disappointed  
by this given how strongly  she feels but I think Barclays  acted fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019..
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5566592