K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Close Brothers  Limited failed to collect a direct debit and then defaulted 
his account.
background
Mr M had a finance agreement with Close  Brothers and a direct  debit  was set up to make his 
monthly payments.  In late 2017 Mr M changed banks and Close  Brothers internal records 
show that a new mandate  was set up, but payments werent received. It is not clear  why this 
happened. The business sent Mr M numerous emails, but he had changed his email  address 
and hadnt informed Close Brothers,  so he didnt receive these.
In January 2018 it wrote to him about his arrears and it also called him and left a message. 
In the absence of a response it sent a further  letter and then notified him in writing  that it had 
defaulted his account. Mr M says he didnt get any of these communications. 
Close Brothers rejected  Mr Ms complaint  and request to remove the default.  He explained 
that he had the money available to make  the payments and as soon as he had been  aware  
of the issue he had paid his arrears.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted  Close  Brothers had made  
numerous attempts  to contact Mr M using the details provided  by him. This involved using 
email, and letter as well as one call. He thought that was fair and reasonable.
After the switch of banks  he thought  that Close Brothers has no reason not to collect  
payment. He said he couldnt comment  whether or not the new bank  was in communication 
with Close  Brothers to inform it of the new account change. However, he went  on to say the 
old bank informed Close brothers of the switch  but received no further  instruction from the 
new bank provider.
He said there were no grounds  to ask Close Brothers to remove the default as Mr M had 
fallen into arrears and the business was required to report factual information to credit  
reference agencies.  Mr M didnt agree and said he would supply further evidence, but after 
four months he has not done  so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M fell into arrears  and Close Brother made numerous efforts  to contact him. It wasnt  
aware he had changed  his email  address, but I am satisfied that it wrote  to him at the correct  
address and I believe the number it called him on was correct. Mr M says he was unaware of 
all these efforts.
He was also unaware that the money  he owed wasnt  coming  out of his account. He says it 
was a secondary account used for making regular payments and so he didnt notice, but I 
believe there was some  responsibility  on him to ensure he was making  the payments he had 
agreed to pay.
Ref: DRN56983842I cannot see what more  Close  Brothers could have  done to let Mr M know his payments 
werent being made. It was owed money  and received no response to its various  forms of 
contact so it took what I consider to be reasonable action in defaulting  the account. It seems  
that only after the matter was in the hands  of a debt collection agency  that Mr M became 
aware of his debt.  
In short,  I cannot  say that the business  did anything  wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
1 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5698384