K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly declined  part of 
a subsidence  claim she made under her buildings  insurance policy.
Mrs T has been  supported by her daughter when bringing this complaint. To keep things 
simple I will refer to Mrs T and her daughter collectively as Mrs T throughout. In addition, 
any references to RSA also relate to the actions  of its agents.
background
In 2014 Mrs T suffered drain related subsidence  damage to her property.  She contacted 
RSA to make a claim under her buildings  insurance  policy. It completed its works in late 
2015 but shortly  after Mrs T raised concerns about  an emerging crack in the garage floor.
In July 2016 Mrs T complained to RSA. She said her claim had taken over two years,  and 
the crack  in the garage floor wasnt looked  into properly. RSA had said it had only 
investigated drains within the area of damage, not a full survey of the drains in and around 
the property. And it said the manhole connected  to the garage wasnt investigated and 
wouldnt fall under the previous subsidence claim.  
Mrs T disagreed and said because root infestations were discovered  in the drains;  she felt 
the adjacent runs shouldve been checked.  Particularly as this was the reason RSA was 
declining to consider the floor crack any further.
RSA referred Mrs T to her new insurer (Insurer A) who sent a loss adjustor to the property in 
April 2017. They considered the garage  floor damage was most  probably a result  of 
subsidence and linked  to the previous  incident that RSA dealt with, so Mrs T spoke to RSA 
again. In August 2017 RSA said it had previously advised her of the drainage problems and 
recommended she complete further works at her own cost.  Alternatively it said she couldve 
submitted an additional  drainage claim. But RSA said no action was taken. It did however 
agree to reinvestigate the more recent  damage as it was likely the leaking drains  had caused  
the subsidence leading to the garage  crack.
RSAs agent assessed the damage in December 2017. It said it didnt believe the nature and 
pattern of the damage was consistent with subsidence or any other insured event. Instead it 
said the crack was caused by temperature changes and wear  and tear. So RSA said it 
wouldnt cover  the claim under her policy. 
Mrs T then brought her complaint to our service.  She said the enquiries and assessments 
carried out by RSA were  limited, and said there  had been extensive delays throughout the 
life of the claim. Overall Mrs T said she wanted  to understand if the crack in the garage floor 
was related to the subsidence.  If it was then she said it should be repaired.  And if it wasnt, 
then she asked for this to be documented to avoid an impact  on any future  sales.
One of our investigators  looked into complaint and upheld it. Having reviewed each  of the 
expert reports he felt Insurer As report was most  persuasive  suggesting the damage to the 
floor related  to the initial claim and subsidence.  
Ref: DRN59333102The investigator said RSAs comments about  a lack of evidence of related damage  were 
contradictory. And he highlighted within its first visit in April 2014  RSAs agent had 
mentioned damage  throughout the property, including a highline  crack to the garage wall. He 
also found that within a June 2015  report comments were made about damage to the garage 
being mentioned by Mrs T. This further  suggested  the damage was linked to the original 
claim. He felt overall it was more likely than not that the garage floor crack had originated 
from the initial subsidence claim so it should  be covered by RSA. And he awarded £250  
compensation to reflect  the ongoing  stress the unnecessary dispute had caused Mrs T.
Mrs T accepted the assessment. But RSA disagreed and said:
the damage to the garage  wasnt consistent with subsidence  saying  typically  there 
would be common signs of movement,  such as cracks to walls or distortion  to door 
openings across  the structure, which werent present;
the garage wall crack noted in 2014 wasnt enough  to say the property had been 
subject to ground movement;
the garage was less likely to be subject to knock on or pulling effect of movement 
compared to other  parts of the house;
Insurer As report had only said the damage may have related to the subsidence 
claim that occurred previously and wasnt conclusive;
Mrs Ts comments indicating the garage  crack had worsened  didnt suggest the 
damage was subsidence  related as the foundation  had been repaired in 2015;  and
overall it felt the damage was caused  due to an inherent issue  with the floor slab.
The investigator looked again,  but said given subsidence damage was found across the 
property he didnt think it was unreasonable to find damage within  the garage. He said other 
causes for the crack in the garage  floor had been raised by RSA and considered, but not 
found to be the cause.  The investigator  also said he didnt feel it was fair to take Mrs Ts 
comments about the damage  worsening on face value as he felt these were  more 
representative of her fatigue  in dealing with the ongoing issue. And overall,  on balance, he 
felt the most likely cause  of the garage  floor crack was the original subsidence, as detailed  
by Insurer As surveyor.
RSA disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  this complaint. Ill explain why.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
In this complaint  I have  to consider whether RSA has fairly declined  Mrs Ts claim for 
damage to her garage,  which she says is subsidence related  taking into account  the 
evidence provided  by all parties. To help me understand whats happened Ive considered 
the expert reports and opinions  presented very carefully.
Ref: DRN59333103RSAs initial  report produced in May 2014 outlined the damage to Mrs Ts home. This 
included comments that said it found  cracks  throughout the property. And it mentioned  a 
stepped hairline crack within  the right side garage wall. RSA completed its subsidence works 
and repairs in late 2015. Its works included repairs to rooms across  the property. This 
suggests that the impact of the subsidence was wide across the home. I also note that this 
report doesnt expressly say the garage is unaffected by the subsidence.
Ive also reviewed a report produced by a subsidence engineer  instructed by Mrs Ts more  
recent insurer  Insurer A. This report is very detailed,  and describes  the damage  across  the 
property. This expert found that the cracking to the garage was relatively new and clean with 
no wear and tear to the side of the cracks. It said therefore it found this was unlikely to be a 
consolidation issue as it wouldve occurred within a few years of the property being  
constructed. This report  goes on to say:
We are of the opinion  that the damage  most probably occurred during the last episode of 
subsidence of the property and was not picked  up as part of the repair works to the property 
when the superstructure repairs and redecorations  were carried out. We were advised by the 
homeowner that a carpet was laid to the floor within the garage. 
I think heavily suggests the damage  to the garage floor was a result of the initial subsidence 
event that RSA dealt  with. RSA has suggested we shouldnt put emphasis  on this report as it 
only indicated the previous subsidence  may be the cause. However the report  goes on to 
say its most probably  the cause. As a result I am persuaded by this and I think  the damage 
to the garage  was, on the balance of probabilities,  caused by the initial  subsidence.
Mrs T raised  concerns  about the garage  to RSA in early 2016. It said a cause could be a 
problem with the drainage  although  it has since withdrawn this reasoning.  It also said it had 
no evidence that this garage  damage  had been  noted earlier. I think  this is in conflict  with its 
2014 report noting damage  to the garage  wall. While  the damage is slight  I dont think it 
should be ignored given the significance RSA previously placed  on saying there was no 
damage to the garage walls.
RSA most recently said the damage  is remote from previous zones and the nature and 
pattern of the damage isnt consistent with subsidence or any other insured event so the 
claim shouldnt  be covered. It said the absence of corresponding cracking to the property 
meant it didnt associate the movement to the floor with the previous subsidence. 
RSA said its possible instead  and it believes most likely  the cracking was either age 
related (wear and tear over time) or associated with thermal movements. Having reviewed 
this carefully, I accept this is a possibility and Ive taken into account all of its comments. I 
acknowledge there isnt a definitive  reason for the damage to Mrs Ts garage floor.  But 
having considered the expert  reports and all the evidence provided, Im persuaded the most 
likely reason is the damaged floor was connected to the previous subsidence from 2014.
So I require RSA to consider this damage as part of the original subsidence claim Mrs T 
made, and either repair the damage caused, or cash settle  to its liability if it is unwilling to do 
so (subject to sums  assured and policy limits).  Im also asking RSA to award  Mrs T £250 in 
recognition of the time shes had to wait for this claim to be resolved,  and the distress this 
has caused her.
Ref: DRN59333104Mrs T has recently  mentioned  that a new crack has appeared in her kitchen. This isnt 
something Ive considered  within this decision and it would need to be brought to RSAs 
attention separately  so it has an opportunity  to investigate  and put things right if necessary.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint  and asking Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to do the following:
reopen and settle the disputed claim (subject  to sums assured and policy limits)  to 
repair the garage floor;
pay 8% simple interest on any sums given directly to Mrs T if the claim is cash settled 
(where RSA is unwilling to carry out the repair)  calculated  from the 1 April 2017 until 
the date payment is issued;
award Mrs T £250 for the trouble and upset  caused by this ongoing claim.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to take off tax from 
this interest. RSA must  give Mrs T a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5933310