K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a fixed rate commercial loan and hasnt 
offered enough  compensation.
background 
The circumstances leading to this complaint were set out in my provisional  decision dated 
24 December 2019, a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision.
Mr A borrowed £274,050 from Lloyds in 2009  to purchase a property to rent out. The loan 
was to be repaid  over 15 years and the interest rate was fixed at 8.165% for the same 
duration. In November  2018, Mr A complained to the bank, saying the loan had been mis-
sold. Lloyds offered to put Mr A in the position he would have been in if hed terminated the 
fixed rate on the date he complained to the bank, without any break  costs,  and the loan had 
moved to variable rate interest from that time onwards.
My provisional view was that payment of the banks existing offer would be a fair and 
reasonable outcome of this complaint.
I asked the parties  if they wanted  to send me anything further in response to my findings.
Lloyds said it had nothing  further to add.
Mr A didnt agree with my provisional decision.  His representative made the following points, 
in summary:
Nothing in the transcript of the execution call suggests that there  is no question being 
raised about full payment. The questions from the client  give a clear indication that 
the loan may be partially repaid early, or in full, depending on income/windfall.
With the likelihood of lump sum payments, the natural conclusion would be that not 
all of the loan balance should have  been placed  on a fixed  rate. The bank could have  
offered to fix part of the lending.
Theres no basis for saying Mr A would have  opted for a 10-year fixed rate. It was a 
small business, with an uncertain  future, dependent on the health, well-being  and 
financial situation of the principal. Given the circumstances, Mr A would more likely  
have opted for a five-year term.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully listened again to the recording  of the execution call. I dont agree it contains 
evidence that Mr A indicated he had any intention  to repay the loan early  in full. The only 
question Mr A wanted to be answered  was whether partial payment would trigger  the same 
scale of break cost as full repayment. 
In the call, the relationship  manager said hed explained about  break  costs  but Mr A had 
asked one question  which he (the relationship manager)  hadnt  been asked before. He said 
Ref: DRN54336462Mr A understood there would be break costs, whether it was a full or partial repayment, but 
wanted to know  if the beak  cost for partial repayment would be as much as for full 
repayment. The corporate markets representative explained that the break cost for partial  
repayment would be lower. With that answer,  Mr A said he was happy to continue  with the 
transaction. Im still satisfied theres nothing in the call that suggests  Mr A felt he might  need 
or want to pay off the entire loan early.
Mr As representative says not all of the loan balance should  have  been  placed on a fixed 
rate. But this wasnt an advised sale or a regulated product, so in considering this complaint 
my role doesnt include assessing  the suitability of a recommendation. The bank made  an 
offer of lending and it was up to Mr A to decide whether he wanted  to accept it. The question 
for me is whether an informed appreciation of the scale  of potential break costs for full 
repayment (and, correspondingly, of the costs for partial repayment) would have made any 
difference to Mr As decision. I still think its unlikely that he would  have come  to another 
decision. 
Although the bank  hadnt given Mr A enough information about the potential  scale of break  
costs, he had been informed that those costs could be substantial. Hed been  told that early 
exit from a loan of £100,000 (less  than half the size of his own) could mean a break cost in 
the region of £15,000. Im satisfied that Mr A took note of this, because his question  to the 
bank showed  he wanted to avoid  paying  the full break cost.  Even  without scaling this up to 
match his own loan,  it was a lot of money.  But once he was reassured that the charge for 
partial repayment would be proportionally less than for full repayment, he was happy to 
proceed. 
The example  prepayment mentioned by the relationship  manager  during the call was 
£10,000, which was less than 5% of the actual  loan, so it would be understandable for 
Mr A to have accepted  the risk of paying such a small  proportion of the break costs that hed 
seen in the illustration. In my view,  he would have regarded it as a matter to be weighed  up 
commercially at a future time, if and when  partial  repayment became a possibility. I dont 
think things would have  been any different if Mr A had received full information about  the 
scale of potential break costs for his own loan. Given his attitude based  on the illustrative 
break costs  that he was aware of, I dont think the sums involved for partial repayment of his 
actual borrowing would  have put him off agreeing the deal.
Im not persuaded that Mr A would have chosen to fix for only five years.  He was investing in 
rental property with a 15-year loan and gave no indication that he intended to exit the loan 
early. In my view, the certainty  of a fixed rate would have been attractive in the 
circumstances. When he agreed to fix the rate for 15 years, he was already aware that the 
break costs  might be substantial, which further suggests he intended  to keep the 
arrangement for much longer than five years. I dont believe a full understanding of the scale 
of potential break costs  would have led him to shorten the fix to five years. On balance,  I 
think he would have  regarded fifteen years as too risky, and ten years as a reasonable 
balance. Lloyds existing  offer to settle the complaint would benefit Mr A more than reducing 
the term of the fixed rate to ten years, so I still think payment  of the banks  offer would be a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
For these reasons, I dont  depart from my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN54336463my final decision
My final decision is that the offer the bank has already made  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Lloyds Bank  PLC should put Mr A in the position he would  have  been  in if hed terminated 
the fixed rate on the date he complained to the bank in 2018  and moved  on the same date to 
a variable rate. The award should  reflect the following considerations:
The variable interest  rate should be calculated at 3.81% above  Bank  of England  base 
rate.
Lloyds should  reimburse the difference between the repayments made on the original 
fixed rate loan and those  due on the variable  rate loan,  for the period from the date 
Mr A complained to the date of settlement.
Lloyds should  add compensatory interest at 8% simple per annum to the reimbursed 
payments from the date the costs arose to the date of settlement.
Lloyds should  not charge Mr A any break costs.
If Lloyds believes its legally obliged to deduct tax from the interest, it should send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54336464COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  him a fixed rate commercial loan and hasnt  offered 
enough compensation.
background
Mr A borrowed £274,050 from Lloyds in 2009  to purchase a property  to rent out. The loan was to be 
repaid over 15 years  and the interest rate was fixed at 8.165%  for the same duration.
In November 2018 Mr A complained to the bank,  saying  the loan had been  mis-sold. His 
representative said the bank  hadnt given  Mr A enough information about  the loan, particularly about 
the potential costs  of breaking the fixed rate before  the end of the 15-year term. His representative 
also said that at the time of the sale Mr A didnt  have a view on the future direction of interest rates,  
and that Lloyds only provided the option  of entering into the fixed rate loan.
Lloyds didnt uphold most of the complaint but said it could have done more to explain the potential 
size of the break costs. The bank therefore offered to put Mr A in the position he would have been in if 
hed terminated the fixed rate on the date he complained to the bank, without any break costs,  and 
the loan had moved to variable rate interest from that time onwards.
Mr A was unhappy  with Lloyds response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that the banks offer was fair and 
reasonable. She gave these  reasons, in summary:
Theres no evidence that fixing the rate was a condition of borrowing. Nor could the 
investigator say that fixing the rate was presented to Mr A as a requirement.
She would expect  Mr A, as a property investor, to have  had an opinion on interest rate 
movement. Fixing the rate provided him with the security of knowing the cost of the loan in 
relation to the amount  of rent he was receiving. He would have been able to take variable rate 
borrowing but that wouldnt have given him the certainty of knowing what  his payments would 
be. Theres no indication that Mr A wanted the flexibility of variable rate borrowing.
During the execution meeting, Mr A asked about break costs in the event of a partial 
repayment, rather than a full repayment. The relationship manager  called the banks 
corporate markets department and gave  a scenario of a £10,000  repayment. The corporate 
markets representative explained that the break costs would be lower for a partial repayment,  
and the relationship manager relayed  this to Mr A. 
Mr A didnt discuss the possibility of selling the property, but instead the repayment of a small 
amount. The investigator didnt think Mr A wanted  the full flexibility  of a variable rate loan. He 
was aware that there would be a cost to repaying  any of the loan early.
The investigator agreed that Mr A could have been given more clarity  about the potential 
scale of the break costs,  but she didnt think he would  have done anything  differently if hed 
been fully aware of the potential  costs.
Lloyds has agreed to reinstate and update its offer to let Mr A come out of the fixed rate as of 
the date of his complaint. 
Ref: DRN54336465Mr A didnt agree  with the investigators  conclusions.  His representative made  the following points, in 
summary:
When the loan was agreed, Mr A wasnt a serious/professional property investor as stated in 
the banks credit  notes. His portfolio had only one previous asset,  a caf. He wasnt a 
professional property investor and couldnt possibly  have held any strong views on the 
movement of interest rates.
There were  limited discussions with Mr A, and perhaps  none at all, to determine whether  to 
agree a fixed or variable rate of interest. The fixed rate and the term of 15 years were  
imposed by the bank from the outset. Mr A made no specific statement that he required 
variable rate borrowing, but there is equally nothing to suggest he wanted security or fixed  
rate borrowing.
There was no specific need for a fixed rate as the rental income  was considerably higher than 
the loan servicing costs.
The call recording suggests there was realistic  possibility of making large sum repayments 
from the first year,  including the possibility  of repaying the entire balance within two years.
A 15-year  fixed  rate loan is generally inappropriate  for a small business/sole trader  because 
its dependent on the health and well-being of the principal. The longer the term, the more  
likely Mr A would end up terminating  the loan early.
The redress  should  be based on a variable  rate from the outset of the loan. But if the 
ombudsman takes the view that Mr A would  have agreed a fixed  rate, the term of the fix 
should be three to five years.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator,  though Ive 
added some further points.
I dont think Mr A was given  enough clarity about the potential scale of break costs. We know from the 
call recording that he did understand that early repayment  of the fixed rate loan would trigger a 
substantial break cost.  He enquired whether  partial repayment would attract the same cost as early 
repayment of the whole balance. Even so, theres no evidence that he fully understood how much the 
break cost could be for his loan of £274,050. The amortising  example in Lloyds  information pack was 
a smaller loan of £100,000 and, in addition, the table of its likely break  costs wasnt easy to interpret.  
From the information he had before him, I dont think Mr A could have readily  worked out how much it 
would cost to terminate  his loan early.  Lloyds has acknowledged that it could have done more  to 
explain the potential  size of the break costs  to the customer.
What I need to decide, therefore, is what Mr A would have done if hed been fully informed  about the 
scale of the potential break  costs. Its not possible  to tell exactly what  would  have happened, so I 
have to base my decision on what I think is most likely,  taking into account  all the circumstances of 
the case. 
I think  Mr A would have been attracted  to fixing his interest  costs even  if hed been fully informed of 
the break cost risk. He was investing in property and the fixed  rate would have given him certainty 
about his monthly borrowing costs in the future.  I think he would have valued the protection from a 
substantial rise in base rates. 
Mr As representative argues  that he couldnt have had any strong  views about  the movement of 
interest rates, because of his limited  property investment experience. But the Bank of England base 
rate at the time was 0.5%  a historic low  and I dont think anyone needed extensive property 
Ref: DRN54336466investment experience to be reasonably concerned that rates might rise over the coming years. 
Interest rates had been volatile and no one knew how they would move in the future. Rates  had fallen 
steeply in the year before  the loan. Only two years previously the base rate had been 5.25%.
Im satisfied that Mr A, when he agreed the deal, understood how a fixed  rate loan works  to the 
extent that the rate of interest  would  remain  constant  for the duration of fixed term.  He was also aware 
of the price of the deal,  in that the bank  told him the interest rate and how much  the monthly  
repayments would be.
Theres no evidence  that Mr A intended to repay the entire loan in the short or medium  term, either  to 
dispose of the property or for any other reason. So I dont think a full appreciation of the risk of break 
costs would  have stopped him from going ahead with the fixed rate loan. Mr As representative says 
that the call recording  suggests the possibility  of repaying  the entire balance  within two years,  but I 
disagree. In the call, the notion of an early repayment of the whole  balance was introduced by the 
relationship manager when talking to the other bank representative, purely  in order to clarify his actual 
question  which was about a part repayment. Im satisfied that theres nothing in the call that 
suggests Mr A felt he might need or want to pay off the entire loan early. 
Mr A did ask whether a part repayment would  trigger the same break  cost as triggered  by a full 
repayment of the loan, and he was told a part repayment would cost proportionately less. Mr A was 
content with that answer. Of course, the actual break cost for part repayment may have been larger 
than he believed. But Mr A was mainly concerned about  whether  he might be liable for the full-loan  
break cost, and he seemed happy to learn that it would be a lower, but unspecified, cost.  I dont think 
that a full appreciation of the scale of potential break costs for ending  the loan would have made any 
difference to Mr As view on this. I dont think it would have  stopped him from agreeing  the fixed rate 
loan. 
Mr As representative says the bank imposed the fixed rate term on Mr A, but Ive seen no evidence  
that fixing was a condition of lending. The representative  points to a lack of evidence of discussions  
about determining whether to fix the rate or not. But I note this wasnt an advised sale, so it was up to 
Mr A to decide whether  or not to accept the banks offer of lending. Mr A would  have known that 
variable rate lending was available on the market. And in any event, its my view that Mr A, if fully 
informed about his options, would have chosen to fix the rate, for reasons Ive given above.
Its my view that Mr A would have gone ahead with the fixed rate loan, but that isnt the end of the 
matter. His borrowing was for 15 years, and Im not convinced he would have wanted to fix the 
interest rate for the entire period if hed fully understood the break cost risk. Given the nature of his 
business, it wouldnt have  been unusual or unreasonable to fix for ten years. But I think its likely that 
Mr A would have regarded 15 years as too long to be locked in by the break  costs, even though it 
would have given him certainty of his payments for the full duration. Mr As representative argues that 
Mr A would have chosen  to fix for only three to five years. But theres  no evidence  to suggest that Mr 
A wanted to fix the rate for such a period, and I think its likely Mr A would have valued  certainty about 
his outgoings on his investment property over ten years.
For the above  reasons,  I asked the bank to calculate an indicative figure for the redress that would  be 
payable if the original  loan were replaced  by a ten-year fixed rate loan,  and compare  that with the 
indicative redress figure  for the banks existing offer. The banks calculations show that the redress for 
its existing offer is the higher  of the two. I therefore think payment of the banks existing offer would be 
a fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already made an offer to settle this complaint. I think that offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN54336467My provisional  decision  is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  put Mr A in the position he would have been 
in if hed terminated the fixed rate on the date he complained to the bank in 2018 and moved on the 
same date to a variable rate. The award  should reflect the following considerations:
The variable interest rate should be calculated  at 3.81% above Bank of England base rate.
Lloyds should reimburse the difference between the repayments made  on the original fixed 
rate loan and those  due on the variable rate loan,  for the period from the date Mr A 
complained to the date of settlement.
Lloyds should add compensatory  interest at 8% simple per annum  to the reimbursed  
payments from the date the costs arose to the date of settlement.
Lloyds should not charge Mr A any break costs.
If Lloyds believes its legally obliged  to deduct tax from the interest,  it should send  a tax deduction 
certificate with the payment.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5433646