K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the increases on his late mothers  (Mrs  M) premiums on her home 
insurance policy, held with St Andrews Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background
Mrs Ms home insurance policy with StAIP started  in November 2008. It provided her 
buildings and contents insurance, with accidental damage included in the contents  
insurance. It initially cost £323.33 for the year. 
The policys  cost increased  gradually over the years and in 2015, Mrs Ms annual  premium 
was £529.28.
In October  2016, the renewal quote for Mrs Ms home  insurance  was £580.14. Unhappy with 
the increase Mr M contacted StAIP. StAIP offered a £150 discount. Mr M considered this 
showed that Mrs M was being overcharged. StAIP then offered a quote for an alternative 
home insurance product that it offered  for around £250. Mr M ultimately switched  insurer  
paying £149.38 for Mrs Ms home  insurance.  
Mr M says that he doesnt think Mrs M had been  treated  fairly  by StAIP and it kept increasing 
her premiums over the years unfairly, despite her circumstances  not changing and with no 
claims made  under the policy. 
StAIP reviewed Mr Ms concerns. It said that the premiums Mrs M was charged over the 
years were  correct. It also explained  that part of the reason for the increase was in relation to 
the insurance premium  tax (IPT) increases that happened over the years. 
It further explained that the alternative insurance  product quoted,  for around  £250, only 
became available in June  2016  a few months before Mrs Ms renewal. It also explained 
that the quote for that alternative product would have included a introductory discount. And 
it was a cheaper policy as consumers could  choose the level of cover or excesses required, 
whereas Mrs Ms policy had comprehensive cover.  
Unhappy, Mr M on behalf of Mrs M referred the complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator thought StAIP hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. As Mr M disagrees, the 
matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mr M, so Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
Ref: DRN56715472StAIP has explained that when Mrs M took out her policy in November 2008 it included an 
introductory discount. This isnt uncommon  and policies may well initially be priced  lower  to 
attract new customers. And I dont think its unfair for an insurer  to seek  to recoup that cost 
over the subsequent years.
With Mrs Ms policy, StAIP says the gradual increases in the premiums each year, were due 
to the initial  discount being recouped  and the increases  in IPT. And by 2015, so around six 
years later, StAIP says it still hadnt fully recouped the discount that had been initially 
applied. It says the increases each year were  to bring the policys  cost up to the true cost of 
the risk associated with insuring Mrs Ms property, alongside the levels of cover provided,  
under the policy.
Mr M thinks because  he got a policy with another insurer for around £150  in 2016, this 
shows Mrs M was being overcharged.  I do understand why Mr M thinks this and why he 
thinks Mrs M may have been  overcharged over the years she held the policy.
But I am mindful the new insurance they got with another  provider (and the quote they also 
obtained from StAIP)  included a new customer discount. As I have explained above, I think 
it's fair that an insurer  recoups  that discount over the subsequent years. I dont think  its fair 
to expect an insurer to maintain  that discount  for the duration someone has their policy. So 
the new policy Mr M obtained, while cheaper at the outset, was likely to increase in price.
And I must also bear in mind that the new policy Mr M obtained most likely provided different 
levels of cover and excesses than the StAIP policy Mrs M had. 
So, for those reasons,  I dont think it would be fair to compare the difference in cost between 
the policy Mrs M had and the policy Mr M subsequently obtained. While Mr M, when he 
decided to shop  around in 2016,  obtained  a cheaper policy   it doesnt automatically mean 
that StAIP had treated  Mrs M unfairly  during the years  she had the policy.  
Overall StAIP  has shown  that the increases  in Mrs M premiums were due to it recouping  the 
initial discount applied.  And as Ive said, I think its fair for an insurer to do this.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that StAIP increased Mrs Ms premiums unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
the estate of the late Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5671547