K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading  as Barclaycard at the time, mis-sold her 
the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs R didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ive been given a copy of the application form for the credit 
card which was completed at the time and this includes a section about PPI. I can see that a 
tick has been placed in this section  to confirm that PPI is required. Mrs R has signed the 
application form which suggests she agreed  with everything that had been entered  on it. If 
Mrs R didnt want to take out the PPI she could have left the section  blank.
Mrs R has said she was told she had to take out the policy by the staff member in branch. . I 
cant know with certainty  what Mrs R was told when she was sold the PPI and I accept she 
may have  felt pressured. But I havent  found any other evidence to support that she was told 
by Barclays that her credit card wouldnt be approved without PPI. The application  form 
allowed Mrs R to leave the box blank if she didnt want the PPI. This isnt something I would 
expect to see if the PPI was a condition of the lending.  
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Mrs R was given a choice whether to 
take out the PPI and she agreed to the cover, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want  
it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs R so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover  Mrs R has told us she would only receive  statutory 
sick pay from her employer if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness and she 
didnt have any savings  or other means with which to meet her repayments if she wasnt  
working. So I think this policy  could have provided  a useful benefit to her.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive mentioned above, she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the 
PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
So taking everything into account, I dont think the policy was mis-sold  so it therefore follows 
that Barclays dont  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
Ref: DRN52431782Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said, including  what  she told us about  her attempt to 
claim when  she was made redundant. Mrs R has said she was told the policy would not pay 
out. Barclays has said it has no record of receiving a claim under this policy. As this 
complaint relates  purely to the sale of the PPI policy, this isnt something I can comment  on 
in this decision. If Mrs R wishes to make a claim for this incident, she should  contact the 
underwriters of the policy to see if she can make  a backdated claim.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5243178