K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) wont  pay their home 
insurance claim for storm damage to a retaining  wall in their garden. 
background 
In December 2015 Mr and Mrs S made a claim to RSA following the collapse of a wall in 
their garden following very heavy  rain and flooding. RSA appointed claims assessors who 
sent out a surveyor  who believed that the wind from the top of the hill and the vast amount of 
rain had affected the wall. He believed the damage was the result  of storm. RSA calculated  
the repairs to cost £3,144.60 net of policy  excess.  
As their neighbour had recently died and there was a proposal  to buy part of the neighbours 
land next to the wall, Mr and Mrs S then asked for the settlement of the claim to be put on 
hold while they reviewed their position.  Then  by March 2017 it became clear  that the land 
wasnt going to be sold so Mr and Mrs S asked what the next steps  were.  They  were  told to 
get contractors  estimates,  which came  out at over £10,000 and over £13,000.  As this was 
beyond the claims assessors' authority they passed it back to RSA, who appointed an 
engineer to look at the wall. That engineer determined that the wall was poorly built and 
never fit for purpose.  He said the sudden accumulation of water  had caused its collapse. He 
estimated that a full repair could cost about  £40,000.
RSA advised that it would be declining  the claim as it wasnt  covered under the policy.  It said 
it had provided a poor service and gave Mr and Mrs S £250 compensation. But it wouldnt 
pay anything towards the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that the reports showed that but for the 
sudden flooding the wall wouldnt have  collapsed. She thought  it fair that RSA honour its 
original offer to pay the repairs estimated at £3,144.60, which Mr and Mrs S were happy  to 
accept.
RSA said it wasnt bound  by the offer as Mr and Mrs S had turned it down. it maintained that 
the claim wasnt covered
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I dont think Mr and Mrs S turned down RSAs original offer. As far as I can see 
that was the estimate put forward by the appointed surveyor which  Mr and Mrs S were  
happy to accept. But as there was the possibility of buying land from next door, which if 
successful would require  them to carry out more  extensive work, it was agreed that the 
matter could be put on hold. They were then told by RSAs assessor to get further  estimates.
So, while I accept that RSA wasnt contractually bound,  it still allowed Mr and Mrs S to 
believe that their claim would be paid and put them to the inconvenience of getting  estimates  
for the work.  But I agree  that the £250  paid was fair to compensate them.
Ref: DRN50227482As for the damage  to the wall, I bear in mind that the original surveyor came out ten days  
after the damage happened. He was of the view that there  was storm damage,  due to the 
vast amount of heavy  rain and the wind. The subsequent inspection and report  was some 
twenty months later. And I think RSA decided to review the damage  as Mr and Mrs Ss 
estimates were so much more than the original one. Looking at the second report  it said 
during  very heavy storms, the existing drainage system along  the roadside  could have  been  
surcharged to the extent that water would have  built up to the rear of the retaining walls.
Whilst build-up of water  over time isnt storm damage (where the cover  would be for one-off 
incidences of storm, not a build-up over a long period)  it does  appear  that this was a sudden 
flood. So I think its likely  that but for the flood caused by the storm conditions the wall would 
have remained standing.
But appreciating that the wall itself wasnt in a good condition, I think  its fair and reasonable 
that RSA should pay the £3,144.60  for the claim,  which  is what  its assessor was satisfied it 
would cost to repair  storm damage. I take into account also that it would have paid this if 
Mr and Mrs S had been in a position  to accept  it at the time.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) to pay to 
Mr and Mrs S £3,144.60 in settlement of their claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5022748