K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that a training course  that he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Carnegie Consumer  Finance  Limited (Carnegie) was misrepresented  to him.
background
Mr K entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Carnegie in November 2017 to pay for a 
gas safe engineering course. The course  was provided by a separate  company who I shall 
call T. The cost of the course  was £7,145, the loan was interest  free and he agreed  to make 
43 monthly payments  of £165. He also signed a registration form with the course provider.
In October  2018 Mr K complained to T that it had mis-sold the course to him. He said he first 
approached T because  he said he wanted to do a plumbing course,  but he says the 
salesman was rather pushy and told him that, if he did the gas safe course instead, then he 
would gain his plumbing certificates as well as being  gas safe at the end of the course.  He 
says the gas course was also a lot more expensive than the plumbing  course.  
Mr K says the salesman didnt explain that he would have to carry out a lot of practical work 
with another company and that hed have to source  this work himself. He says he wouldnt 
have signed up for the course  had he known this. He said that hes done a lot of research 
since and says there are many others  in a similar position to him.
T didnt think it had mis-sold  the course.  It said Mr K was given a welcome  pack when he 
first signed  up to the course which explained  what the course entailed. And it said this set 
out that Mr K would need to spend some  time gaining experience  with a gas engineering 
company, building a portfolio of evidence  to demonstrate knowledge and experience 
gained.. It said Mr K was entitled  to cancel the course without charge in the first two weeks.  
And it said he didnt do so. 
T said that it hadnt seen  anything to show that the training course included plumbing 
qualifications and it said there wasnt a price  difference  between the course  fees. But it said 
that it would  be willing to transfer his enrolment  to a plumbing course.
Mr K was unhappy with Ts response, so he contacted Carnegie to claim for the 
misrepresentation under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75).  Carnegie didnt uphold  
Mr Ks S75 claim as it said it hadnt  found any evidence of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract for the same  reasons as T. Mr K remained unhappy, so he referred  his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. And he said he hadnt seen anything to support 
Mr Ks assertion that the salesman had told him to take the gas course instead of the 
plumbing course. The investigator  also said T had said there wasnt  a price difference 
between the two courses. Finally he said the welcome pack  explained  Mr K would have to 
source his own work experience in order to gain the qualification. And he said Mr K had 
signed a separate declaration to confirm he understood he was entering into a gas engineer 
course and what the contents of the course included.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.  
Ref: DRN55245802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Mr K paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. S75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance  provider,  Carnegie  is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier  T. Im satisfied those circumstances apply  here. 
Mr K says that the course  was misrepresented  to him and I think  hes raised  two reasons:
1.He was told hed get plumbing qualifications with the course; and
2.He wasnt told hed have to carry out work experience and that hed have  to source this 
work himself.
Mr K says he wouldnt have entered into this course  had he been given all the correct 
information. Carnegie says that the documentation  Mr K was given sets out what the course 
entailed. And it doesnt think theres  anything to show the course  was misrepresented.
Ive taken Mr Ks comments into account,  but I havent seen enough to support his 
assertions that the course was misrepresented to him by the salesman. Mr K says that the 
gas engineering  course  was more expensive, but Im satisfied there was no difference in the 
course cost as T has given evidence that all its courses of the same level were the same 
price. 
I note Mr K says he was told the course would obtain him plumbing qualifications. But Im 
conscious that he was given a full course guide  when he first entered  into the course, which 
doesnt specify that the course contained  plumbing materials. He also didnt raise  concerns 
in respect to the course content until hed nearly  completed a year of it. Mr K says it took him 
a year to realise as, when he first started, he didnt  have  any concerns. But he said that, as 
he asked more questions, it became apparent the course wasnt  what he wanted or asked  
for. He says he was never told about  having  to find his own work  experience  and was told 
everything was included in the cost. He thinks that, given the course  cost over £7,000, its 
unfair he would have to find his own work experience. 
Ive considered everything Mr K has said in this respect.  But, on balance, I think  Mr K would 
have complained sooner had he thought the course would contain plumbing material. And I 
dont think Ive seen  anything to support Mr Ks assertion  that he was given false or 
misleading information. So I havent  seen  enough to show that Mr K was misled in this 
respect. But, even if he had, I dont think hes lost out because T said it was willing  to allow  
him to switch onto another  course.
I acknowledge Mr K says he wasnt told hed have to arrange his own work experience. But I 
also note he signed  a declaration which contained  the following:
I must complete a total of 140 days on the job gas related training with a suitably qualified 
gas safety engineer.  My in centre training  (25 days) contributes towards this figure, leaving a 
further 115 days  which must be completed  prior to practical training weeks 5 and 6.
Ref: DRN55245803So Mr K signed  to confirm  he was aware he needed  to do some on the job training and he 
was aware he needed  to arrange this himself.  Mr K disputes that he signed this and says 
that the signature and handwriting dont match his. But Carnegie has advised  us that this 
declaration is signed  during the application  process. I have to think about whats most likely 
to have happened here. 
It seems  to me the declaration was part of the application process the salesman  went 
through with Mr K. I think its likely  T would have provided a pack of documents for its sales 
people to go through with each sale. I think its likely this document  would have been one of 
the documents. I also think its most  likely that the salesman would have asked Mr K to sign 
the declaration  and Mr K did so. And I think his signature does look similar to the other ones 
he provided on that day. So, on balance,  I think its likely he did sign this. And I think its 
likely he was told hed need  to arrange  his own work  experience.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that it was fair for Carnegie  to say that theres not enough  to show  
that the course was misrepresented to Mr K.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5524580