K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy about the cost of a claim recorded by Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited 
after he made a claim under his home  insurance policy.
background
In 2016 Mr R made a claim to Admiral following a water leak from pipes under his 
kitchen floor. Admiral  accepted the claim and arranged for its contractors to carry out 
repairs.
Mr R complained to Admiral about the poor standard of the repairs and delays. 
Admiral agreed that he had cause  to complain. It said:
Your property suffered  extra damage at the hands of the contractors and the quality of the 
work was extremely poor. Some  of the repair methods used were incorrect  and your 
property was left in a poor state because of this.
After Mr R brought a complaint to this service,  Admiral increased the compensation it paid to 
Mr R to £2,500 for the trouble and upset it had caused him.
In 2018 Mr R tried to change insurer. He says he was quoted £300 less than the premium 
charged by Admiral but when he told the prospective insurer  about the claim in 2016,  his 
application was rejected.  He said the insurer told him that was because the cost of the claim 
according to Admiral was £102,000.  So he stayed  with Admiral.
Mr R doesnt think this is fair. He says the majority of the claim cost was due to bad 
management and incompetence  on the part of Admirals suppliers.
He brought his complaint  to this service.  Our investigator asked Admiral for a breakdown of 
the claim cost and what it would have been if no errors had been made by Admiral and its 
contractors. He didnt  receive a reply. So based  on the evidence from Mr R he 
recommended that Admiral should  change the record of the claim cost to reflect what it 
should have cost if the repairs  had been  carried out properly from the outset, pay Mr R a 
further £800 compensation, refund any extra premium Mr R had to pay as a result  of the 
claim cost being  recorded incorrectly and pay 8 per cent simple interest on the amount 
refunded.
As Admiral didnt accept the investigators  view, the matter has been referred to me. Admiral 
has told me the cost of the buildings  claim has been recorded as £94,714.89 and contents 
as £4,487.93. It said the buildings  claim included the compensation of £2,500  but not the 
sum of £14,327.82 being the amount paid to rectify  the original  poor work by Admirals 
supplier. It said it was trying to recover the sum of £2,500 from its supplier and was happy to 
deduct this from the claim cost recorded  on an external database  prior to making  a recovery.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Mr Rs claim should have been relatively  straightforward. The whole  of the ground floor of 
his home  (which included  a kitchen, utility room, cloakroom and living  room) needed to be 
stripped out and dried before everything  was put back. When insurers  accept  a claim like 
this, they set money aside to meet the estimated  cost of the claim  the reserve.  Over time 
as more information becomes available the reserve will be reviewed.
Ref: DRN54870852In this case the original  reserve  was £10,893.  After the property  had been  dried,  further 
damage became  apparent, so Admirals  claims handler recommended  increasing  the 
reserve to between £20,000 and £25,000.  Admiral made arrangements  for Mr and Mrs R to 
stay elsewhere while  the works were carried out and they were  supposed  to return home 
around mid-June  2016.
Unfortunately a lot of damage was caused  by Admirals contractors. They damaged  Mr Rs 
original kitchen so that it couldnt be put back. They also damaged his fridge freezer, oven  
and hob. They chipped  his granite work  top, got cement on his carpet, cut through an 
electricity cable and damaged various  blinds, paintwork  and fittings. All these things had to 
be replaced/made good as well as many  other  smaller items. The cost of new kitchen units 
alone was about £11,000. By September 2016  the reserve had risen to £67,000.
In addition,  due to poor project management and the time needed  for extra  work  due to 
damage caused by Admirals contractors, Mr and Mrs R werent able to return home until 
mid-October 2016, about four months  later than they should  have. That meant  their 
accommodation costs  were much higher than they should have been. The works  were 
eventually finished  in December 2016.
Admiral says the total claim cost of around  £99,000  doesnt include just over £14,000 which 
it recovered from its supplier. I dont doubt that these figures are correct but there may be 
commercial or other reasons of which Im unaware as to why the amount Admiral reclaimed 
wasnt greater. I think if the matter had been handled better  by Admiral and its contractors, 
the total claim cost would  have been  more in line with the first revision of the reserve. Im 
prepared to accept that it could have been £25,000.
A number of factors  affect the premium charged on renewal  and the cost of a recent 
claim is often  one of them. Mr Rs premium has increased from £271 four years ago to 
about £800 now. I think its safe to assume  that the claim cost recorded by Admiral  is a 
factor in the increase (although it wasnt on the first renewal). So in order  to treat Mr R fairly 
I think Admiral should recalculate his premiums for the last three years on the basis of a 
claim cost of £25,000 and refund any difference in the premiums  plus interest.
It should also use this claim cost going  forward  to calculate premiums  whilst Mr R remains 
insured with it. However, its likely that Admiral wont be able to amend the figure  its 
required to record on the industry  claims database.  If it cant amend the claim cost shown 
on internal and/or external  databases,  it should provide Mr R with a letter confirming that if it 
hadnt caused damage during necessary insured repairs  its total outlay for the claim made 
for water damage would  likely have been £25,000. He can then present this to prospective  
new insurers if he chooses to leave Admiral  and the new insurer  can then understand why 
such a large claim outlay is recorded  against Mr Rs insurance history.
I can see that being charged premiums higher than they should  have  been  and shopping  
round for alternative cover has caused Mr R some  trouble and upset. I think the sum of 
£250 is appropriate to compensate him for this.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision although Mr R queried why Id only proposed 
that Admiral should  pay him £250  compensation when our investigator had recommended 
£500.
Ref: DRN54870853my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only looking at compensating  Mr R for the trouble and upset hes suffered as a result  of 
his premiums being higher than they should have been due to Admirals  fault and the 
inconvenience of having to shop  around  for another policy at a lower  cost. Taking into 
account the impact  this had on Mr R I think the amount of £250  is appropriate  to compensate  
him for this. Ive looked  separately at compensating him for his financial loss.
Since both parties  have  accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them 
and they now form part of the findings in this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to:
recalculate Mr Rs premiums for the renewals in 2017,2018  and 2019 on the basis  of a 
claim cost of £25,000 for his escape of water claim;
refund to Mr R the difference  between the recalculated  premiums  and the premiums  he 
paid plus interest*  from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay compensation of £250 to Mr R;
calculate Mr Rs future premiums while he remains insured with it on the basis of a claim 
cost of £25,000 and show this claim  cost on internal  and external databases if possible; 
and
provide Mr R with a letter confirming that the total outlay  for the claim should  have  been  
£25,000. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr R, 
it should  tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5487085