K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the trading account and Individual Savings Account (ISA) he held 
with Interactive Investor Services  Limited  (IISL). He says his access to them  was unfairly 
blocked because  of an unnecessary identity verification demand, which  was not properly 
communicated.
background
Mr M opened the ISA over 10 years ago and some years thereafter he opened  the trading 
account. Around July 2018 he noticed that his ability to trade in and withdraw from the 
trading account  had been blocked, and he put enquiries (and a complaint) to IISL in this 
respect. By late 2018 he learnt that the ISA had been blocked in the same  fashion. In 
between these events,  his complaint about the blocked trading account was addressed  by 
IISL (in August  2018)  and, in the main,  it said:
UK Anti Money Laundering regulations require it to re-verify  identity for account 
holders periodically.  Existing accounts  are subject  to this requirement. In 2017 the 
requirement applied  to Mr M. It sent him notices  in this respect in August and 
September 2017 but received no response. The notices also required  that he 
complete and return information/documentation for the re-verification process.  
Pending successful completion  of the process,  it was/is permitted to block  the 
relevant account  and that is what it did to Mr Ms trading account.
A further  reminder  was sent to Mr M in August 2018, shortly  before its complaint 
response  and the re-verification form was also enclosed with the complaint  
response.
It had/has no discretion in applying the regulated  requirement  for re-verification and 
the trading account  would remain blocked until that is successfully completed.
The ISA was subsequently blocked  for broadly the same reasons.
Mr Ms key points  are that he already completed, successfully, the verification  process  in 
order to open  the ISA (and then the trading account), which  was also linked to his bank 
account (which he has held for over 30 years and where  his identity is further  confirmed). As 
such, in principle, he considers IISLs actions in requesting re-verification of his identity  and 
in blocking his accounts to be unreasonable and unnecessary. He says he has no record  of 
receiving the notices IISL says it sent in 2017. However,  he notes that they might  have been 
sent to a secure message  inbox which he ought  not to have  been  expected  to monitor.  
Mr M considers that his assets  (including  cash) were essentially misappropriated by IISL 
during the relevant period, as it should  not have  stopped him from withdrawing them. In 
addition, he says he is aggrieved that he had to continue paying  quarterly  fees to IISL for 
accounts which were  no longer  functioning  because of IISLs conduct. The complaint he 
referred to this service  claimed recovery of his assets, a refund of the fees incurred during 
the relevant period and compensation for being subjected  to the account blockages. He later 
mentioned the cost he incurred to raise funds  for a particular purpose which he would have 
avoided had he been able to access his funds in the accounts.
One of our investigators  applied a dual approach to the complaint. She investigated its 
merits and she also sought to resolve  Mr Ms pressing need for access  to his assets. Upon 
liaising between the parties, she eventually resolved the latter successfully  which 
concluded on the basis of Mr M closing his trading account and ISA with IISL, being able to 
Ref: DRN52687732withdraw his funds and being able to transfer his ISA to a new provider. With regards to the 
complaints merits  the investigator mainly  found  as follows:
IISL was not wrong  to apply the review  and re-verification process to Mr Ms 
accounts, as required  by the relevant regulations; and it is not unusual for an account 
subjected to such a process being  frozen  until the process is completed.
This service would not interfere with a firm applying such  a process.
However, IISL appears to have  delayed parts of the process.  The accounts have 
been closed and Mr Ms assets have been  returned to him, but he should  be paid 
£250 for the trouble  and upset caused  to him by the delays.
Given that IISL rightfully applied the process  to Mr Ms account, with a regulatory 
basis to do so, there are no grounds  for further  compensation. 
IISL agreed to pay Mr M the £250 recommended by the investigator.  Mr M disagreed  with 
this outcome. He retained his key arguments, rejected the proposal of a £250 payment and 
counter proposed £1,000  as compensation (for trouble and upset)  he would reluctantly be 
prepared to accept.  The matter was then referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for the same reasons she gave.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling in the matter. He gives  a reasonable explanation for 
that feeling and for his position  in the complaint. From his standpoint and with references to 
him having held the ISA for over 10 years, to having  held the bank account associated  with 
the ISA for even  longer  and to having previously  successfully  completed identity verification 
processes for both accounts, it is understandable that he questioned  the re-verification 
process.
However, IISLs position in the matter is at least equally  and certainly no less  
reasonable. As the investigator said, it had a legal and regulatory duty to discharge and that 
was the purpose  behind  the re-verification  process applied to Mr Ms accounts.  I do not 
consider that IISL can reasonably be criticised for doing this or for maintaining  the periodic 
anti money laundering checks  that it is legally required  to perform. It can be argued  that the 
purpose of such checks would be defeated if, whilst they are underway and before a firm is 
satisfied that the checks have  been passed,  trading and withdrawal activities  in the relevant 
accounts are unrestricted. As such, and as the investigator noted, it is not uncommon for 
accounts to be blocked or suspended  pending  successful completion  of such checks.
It is not clear  why Mr M did not receive IISLs notices in 2017, but I consider that they were  
sent to him and that in 2018 it continued  to pursue  the information  and documentation it 
required from him. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms points,  and grievance,  about  paying fees for an account  he could not 
access and about  having to source funds elsewhere at a cost when, but for the account 
blockages, he could  have  accessed his own funds at no cost. However, these situations 
arose directly from IISL discharging a legal and regulatory duty.  I have found (above) that it 
did nothing wrong  in this respect, so there would exist no grounds for compensation in 
relation to these  two grievance points.
Ref: DRN52687733I agree  with the investigators finding  that IISL caused some  avoidable  delays in the overall 
process. I consider that this extends to the point at which she liaised  with both parties  to 
resolve the closure of the accounts, remittance of Mr Ms funds to him and transfer  of the 
ISA to the new provider.  There  is evidence of IISL identifying some errors  on its part which  
delayed this resolution. Overall and on balance, I am persuaded that £250 is fair 
compensation for the trouble and upset  that has been caused  to Mr M in this respect. It is 
broadly consistent  with the level of compensation this service has awarded for trouble and 
upset in comparable  cases.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint but only in relation to the trouble 
and upset caused to him by Interactive Investor  Services Limiteds delay in the overall 
matter. For this, I order Interactive Investor Services Limited to pay Mr M £250  and I note 
that it has already  agreed to make  this payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5268773