K822xcomplaint
Miss K is unhappy with how Barclays Bank  Plc dealt with her account switch. 
background 
On 13 November 2018 Miss K applied online for an account with Barclays and asked to 
switch the existing account  she held with another bank, which Ill refer to as T. Miss Ks 
account with T was overdrawn and she had a large overdraft facility. She wanted to switch 
her overdraft over to Barclays as part of her application. 
Miss K said Barclays website instructed her to take identification documents into a branch to 
get them verified. So, she attended her local branch  that afternoon and spoke to a member 
of staff there. She said she explained she would need an overdraft to replace the overdraft 
arrangement she had with T. And she says Barclays  told her it would apply for the overdraft 
before the switch  took place and that she would need to provide  six months  of bank 
statements. 
On 16 November Miss K said she returned to her local branch with the information  she was 
asked to provide.  She said copies of her identification documents  were  taken and her bank 
statements were retained  by the branch.  Miss K said she asked again about the overdraft 
and was told an application would be made that day on her behalf.  She said Barclays told 
her it couldnt guarantee she would be given an overdraft or predict the amount it would be 
prepared to lend to her. But it would inform her in the event of any issues  arising in case she 
wanted to cancel the switching process. 
Miss K said she received no further  communication from Barclays until 26 November when 
she received correspondence telling her that her account switch  had been completed.  She 
said the following  day she received a text from Barclays,  which  stated that she didnt have 
sufficient funds to cover  a payment. She then realised she didnt have an overdraft facility on 
her account.  When Miss K attended her local branch  to clarify what had happened she was 
told Barclays hadnt applied for an overdraft on her behalf. 
To endeavour to put matters right Barclays applied for an overdraft  facility  matching the 
amount Miss K had had with T. But the following day Miss K was told this application had 
been declined.  A further overdraft application  for a lower amount was then made on Miss Ks 
behalf, which was also unsuccessful. So, Miss Ks Barclays account  remained without an 
overdraft facility and she was asked to repay the balance of her overdrawn account with T. 
She said subsequently took out a loan to clear these  arrears, which she said was at a less 
favourable interest  rate because  her credit file had been detrimentally affected  as a result  of 
what had happened.
Miss K complained to Barclays about what  happened. After her complaint  was lodged, Miss 
K said she was told her identification documents hadnt been uploaded onto Barclays 
system and her statements couldnt  be located.  Miss K said this caused  her concerns about 
the security of her personal data and whether Barclays  had breach data protection  
legislation. In its final response to Miss Ks complaint Barclays offered  her £200 
compensation to apologise for what had happened. But Miss K rejected this offer and 
referred her complaint  to our service.
Our adjudicator investigated Miss Ks complaint and thought that Barclays  gave her poor 
information, which caused her significant  stress  and worry. They  didnt think  that the £200 
Ref: DRN53199632Barclays offered to settle this complaint was reasonable. Instead  they thought that £350 
compensation was appropriate and fair in the circumstances. But Miss K didnt agree with 
this award. So her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Miss K encountered during the account switching 
process. And I want to assure her that I can understand the distress  and inconvenience  this 
all must have caused. 
Miss K wanted to switch her account  to Barclays and expected it to match the overdraft 
facility she had with T. Based on what she told our service I think  its, most likely,  that when 
discussing the account switching process  with Barclays she wouldve emphasised the 
importance of being provided with a like for like overdraft facility. And I think  its clear  that 
all the problems Miss K experienced were  caused  by Barclays  not matching the overdraft 
facility she had with T when it switched  her account.  
I think Barclays shouldve applied for the overdraft  Miss K had wanted on 16 November 2018 
when she attended  the branch with her identification  documents  and the financial information 
she had been  asked to provide. But, for reasons  that remain unclear, Barclays didnt do so 
until after 26 November 2018 when the switching process had been completed.  I think  this 
was an error  and missed  opportunity on the part of Barclays.
I also think this error  was compounded by that fact that Barclays were subsequently unable  
to match  the overdraft facility Miss K had with T. This ultimately led to a situation whereby 
she had to secure alternative  borrowing  to enable her to repay the overdrawn balance of her 
account with T.  
I wish to make clear  that I dont  seek to criticise Barclays decision not to approve  Miss Ks 
overdraft application.  An overdraft application would, of course, need to be subject to 
affordability checks. And, having assessed Miss Ks application, Barclays wasnt  satisfied it 
could lend responsibly or that she would be able to repay what she wanted to borrow.  I think 
this demonstrates that when Barclays tried to match Miss Ks overdraft with T it undertook 
proportionate checks and was responsibility assessing affordability,  which  is good  practice.  
I also appreciate that Barclays  told Miss K it wasnt offering  her a guarantee that it would 
approve an overdraft on her new account. Indeed,  Miss K doesnt dispute this. And I 
understand that Barclays account switching terms and conditions  state  that it cant 
guarantee itll be able to match an overdraft  facility held at another  banking institution. But, 
ten days before the account  switch  was complete, Barclays told Miss K it would inform her of 
any problems with her overdraft application. And it didnt communicate  with her until after the 
switching process had finalised. So, I think Barclays made a further error by not telling Miss 
K that her account didnt have an overdraft  facility before the switch had been completed.
As Ive already  explained, Im persuaded that Miss K made it clear that she needed an 
overdraft facility to replace the arrangement she had with T. And Ive no doubt that if she had 
been informed  that Barclays hadnt  approved  her request for an overdraft she wouldnt have 
instructed it to complete the account  switching process. She already had an overdraft with T, 
which she was using  at the time of the account switching process. And it wouldnt make  
Ref: DRN53199633sense for her to replace  that account with one without an overdraft facility  that she clearly 
needed. So, for the reasons Ive outlined I think Barclays made mistakes in how it 
approached and dealt with Miss Ks account  switch.
In thinking about how to put things right Ive carefully thought  about  the impact  Barclays  
errors had on Miss K. Barclays initially offered to compensate her £200 to resolve  this 
complaint. But our adjudicator didnt think this fairly reflected the distress  and inconvenience 
Miss K was caused.  Instead, they thought an award  of £350 was warranted  here,  which 
Barclays agreed to pay. 
Its clear Miss K doesnt think this amount adequately reflects  her inconvenience and 
experience. So, I need to determine whether the compensation recommended by our 
adjudicator is reasonable to compensate Miss K for the worry and trouble she was caused  
by Barclays mistakes. Having considered all the evidence, Ill explain why I think  an award 
of £350 is fair. 
Miss K says she lost out financially as a result  of what happened because  she had to take 
out a loan to settle her account  with T. She says this loan was at a higher interest rate than 
the overdraft arrangement  that it essentially replaced  so it cost her more. And she told our 
service that this was because her credit score  was detrimentally affected as a result of what 
happened.
But the loan Miss K took out was at a lower rate than the rate of her overdraft with T and the 
charges she wouldve incurred had Barclays provided the overdraft facility she had 
requested. As our adjudicator explained,  the loan provides an end date to the debt,  whereas  
an overdraft is an ongoing debt, with no defined end date. So Im not persuaded that Miss K 
is worse off and I havent seen any evidence shes incurred a loss.
The interest rate Miss K was offered in relation to her loan is a commercial decision taken by 
the lender she approached to lend money  to her. And there are many factors  that can affect 
what rate is offered. I cant fairly  comment on the rate offered by another  business who isnt 
a party  to this complaint.  But I am satisfied that the situation Miss K found herself in with 
Barclays hasnt impacted on the rate of the loan she took out. I say this because Ive seen a 
copy of her credit file and theres no evidence that either Barclays or T recorded  adverse 
credit information on her profile. I understand that our adjudicator has already explained to 
Miss K that there are many factors that can affect  someones credit score. But, having  
carefully considered  all the evidence Miss K and Barclays have provided to our service, Im 
not persuaded that what happened  here reduced her credit score.
Miss K complains  that Barclays incorrectly and insecurely stored her personal  details 
because it wasnt able to find bank statements he had provided it in support of her overdraft 
application. She feels that, in doing  so, Barclays  breached the rights she has under relevant 
data protection  legislation. And she also thinks Barclays asked  her to provide personal 
information that wasnt required.
But based  on the information  Ive seen Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Barclays 
to ask to see identification  documents as part of its account opening process. And I think  it 
was reasonable  to ask Miss K to provide six months of bank  statements.  Its clear it would 
need to see these documents as part of its overdraft application  process and affordability 
assessments  especially if it was attempting the match the overdraft facility  Miss K had with 
T. 
Ref: DRN53199634Miss K is concerned that the way in which her personal data was stored by Barclays 
breached data protection legislation. I should  explain that its not our role to decide whether  
a breach of data protection has taken place. Thats the role of the Information 
Commissioners Office  but, overall,  I dont  think Barclays has done anything wrong here. And 
Im satisfied that no breach of data protection  has taken place. I say this because Im 
satisfied Miss Ks statements were stored confidentially in a locked  room,  which  is why they 
couldnt be initially found. I understand they were  subsequently returned by secure trackable 
post. In terms of Miss Ks identification documents, Barclays said that they were  also stored 
securely and destroyed within its confidential  waste. 
The final part of Miss Ks complaint is about  the charges she incurred on her account  after 
her switch had completed. But like our adjudicator explained in their view,  Im satisfied that 
£350 compensation sufficiently covers the charges  Miss K incurred. It follows  that Im not 
going to tell Barclays to make  an additional  award. 
So while I acknowledge Miss Ks strength of feelings  about the issues  raised by this 
complaint, I think the total amount of £350 is appropriate  compensation based on my 
findings. So I wont be ordering it to pay any more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only to the extent  that Barclays Bank  
Plc has already  agreed to pay Miss K £350 to settle this complaint, which  I think is fair in all 
the circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays Bank Plc should pay Miss K £350 and 
other than this I dont  need it to do anymore. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5319963