K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Sesame Limited  mis-sold  him payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policies.
background
This complaint is about PPI policies taken  out by Mr M in 2009 and 2011, in connection with 
his mortgage.  The policies provided  cover  for Mr M if he couldnt work because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Sesame gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the products it 
recommended were suitable  for Mr Ms needs?
-Did Sesame give Mr M the information  he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policies?
If there was a problem  with the way the policies were sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr M is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done  something different  such  as not 
taking out the policies   if there hadnt  been any problems with the sales?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms case  and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr M says Sesames  representative told him he had to buy the PPI to get the loans he 
wanted, and that he wasnt given a proper choice. Ive thought about everything hes said, 
and Ive also looked at the paperwork that was completed at the time he applied  for the 
mortgages.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed  between Mr M and 
Sesames representative  when the PPI applications  were made. But it seems Mr M had to 
complete a separate application  form to apply for the PPI. So I think he wouldve realised 
that the cover was a separate product to the mortgages he was applying  for. And there  is 
nothing on the PPI application to suggest  that taking the cover was a condition of getting the 
mortgages.
 
Ref: DRN50089802So without anything  else to support  what Mr M has told me, I havent been able to safely  
conclude that Sesame didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional.
Sesame advised  Mr M to take out the policies and it doesnt look like they were unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the relevant  times.  I say this because:
-Mr M was eligible for the policies  given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
-Mr M says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness 
or accident. But the policies would have paid out in addition  to Mr Ms employer sick pay, 
and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policies in place wouldve meant Mr M 
could use his employer  benefits to pay for other expenses. 
So overall I think Mr M would have had some  use for the policies despite his existing 
arrangements.
-Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policies  main  benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better  
advice or information about the policies exclusions and limitations.
-Mr M received quotes for both policies before  he took them out, so I think  he knew  how 
much he would have  to pay and found  it acceptable.  The policies were competitively priced 
and had a reasonable  benefit. So I dont think Mr M needed better  information about  the 
policies cost. 
Its possible the information Sesame gave Mr M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been. But he chose  to take out the policies  and so appears to have  wanted  this type of cover. As 
Ive already said, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policies seem 
to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr M would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided   overall,  I think he would  still have taken  out the policies.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5008980