K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 1996. 
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading at the time as TSB,  mis-sold them  this PPI. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds throughout  this decision.
Im very sorry this complaint has taken so long to reach this stage,  although I see weve  
previously communicated  with a claims management company which  has been representing 
Mr and Mrs H. Nevertheless, I do appreciate its been quite a wait, and Id like to assure 
Mr and Mrs H that I have  read through everything theyve submitted with great care. Ive also 
looked at the latest information  Mr H submitted; I understand the points being made and I 
thank him for taking  the time to diligently set them out.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and they told Mr and Mrs Hs 
representative they didnt think we should  uphold it. They disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion but they didnt  raise any new or additional points at this stage but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has now been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  Weve 
set out our general  approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and published some 
example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant considerations may apply 
to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed information here, but Ive 
taken into account  all relevant considerations in making a decision.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, but having considered the case, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint and Ive summarised my reasons below.
did Lloyds properly obtain Mr and Mrs Hs consent?
The first thing I looked at was whether  Mr and Mrs H gave their consent to add PPI to their 
mortgage. Although  it was a joint mortgage,  only Mr H was covered by the PPI. So Im afraid  
certain complaint  points  made on their behalf  about Mrs H not being eligible for the PPI 
arent relevant in this context. As only Mr H was protected,  Ive looked at his eligibility. Mrs H 
was never  named on the PPI.
Similarly, their representative made  a large number of complaint points, many of which  as I 
explain later,  I consider  to be general and not related specifically to Mr and Mrs Hs 
situation. However, I think it was clear  enough at the time of this sale in 1996 that Mr and 
Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI if they didnt want  to. I say this because I see we still 
have a copy of the mortgage application form. There was a section on this about PPI 
Ref: DRN59864062(MortgageSure) and I note the box for this was ticked. Mr and Mrs H both signed the 
application with a tick in the relevant box on 14 June  1996. I consider this to be strong  and 
reliable evidence that they wanted to have this type of cover,  selected  only for Mr H.
I see they were also given or sent a Mortgage  Offer. This is an important document which  I 
feel Mr and Mrs H would  have wanted  to read carefully.  It too said theyd chosen PPI and it 
set out the monthly cost of £16.30 together with the other mortgage costs.  I think Mr and 
Mrs H would have also filled out a direct debit instruction (or similar)  to authorize the 
payment(s) to leave their bank account  each month.
In summary,  I think theres plenty of solid and reliable evidence  here showing they wanted to 
have PPI, they knew it was optional, and that Lloyds correctly obtained their consent.
was the PPI suitable?
Lloyds probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs H as part of an advised sale.  It 
therefore had a duty to check that the PPI was right for them.  I consider this to be the crux of 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  because they make  several points about  the PPI not being  
something they needed. I understand  the points being made.
However, as Ive said, they wanted the PPI and they could easily  see they had a choice from 
the documents they were  presented with. Mr H appears to have been  eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the main  exclusions we typically see in these policies. As our 
adjudicator previously explained,  we no longer have access to the actual policy  rules, 
because they relate  to an old policy form the mid-1990s. But Ive seen some policy  
documents from near to the 1996  period and Ive made some reasonable assumptions about 
what the rules and limitations of the cover  would have been  like.
Those representing Mr and Mrs H said his sick pay with his work extended beyond 
12 months at the full rate. However, I dont think this is right.  We see very few cases  where 
the provision of sick pay cover is so generous.  And Im familiar with Mr Hs occupation and 
the general benefits he would have enjoyed. Whilst I accept he would have had fairly good 
protections in place,  his sick pay would have most likely been six months at the full rate and 
six months half. We see more generous provisions in only a select  few professions as a rule, 
and Mr Hs representative submitted no evidence to the contrary.
However, even accepting that he had good job-related  protection,  I think the PPI was still 
suitable. It was a mortgage  secured  on his and Mrs Hs home  and the consequences of 
them not being able to keep up payments  could  have been serious. So, I think  the PPI was 
suitable and it being recommended to them wasnt unreasonable.  
Also, there was nothing obvious  about  Mr Bs occupation which would have  made it difficult  
for him to make a successful claim on the policy, in my view.  He hasnt told us about any 
pre-existing medical conditions that could have  affected his ability to claim and there were no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems that Im aware of. Again, 
the points made on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf  about  possible  mental  health  limitations  on the 
policy, for example,  are mere generalised ones.
after our adjudicator issued their view
After the adjudicators view was issued, Mr and Mrs H subsequently mentioned some health  
matters in relation  to Mr H which appear  to post-date the sale. Im sure these issues  will 
have been of concern to them and its certainly not my intention to under-estimate  their 
impact. But Im afraid  I dont find that they affected  whether or not Mr and Mrs H would have 
Ref: DRN59864063taken out the PPI policy in the first place. My assumption is that by being after the PPI sale, 
Mr Hs apparent health deterioration  wasnt known  about and so I cannot take this into 
account as affecting whether or not the sale would have gone ahead  in 1996 because  the 
policy excluded some pre-existing  health  conditions. 
Mr H also strongly  put forward some further points, asserting the overall vulnerability of his 
and Mrs Hs family situation at unspecified points in time  in so much as being  a family with 
young / dependent children. But in my view this demonstrates that having  the PPI was 
something Mr and Mrs H are likely  to have given considerable thought to, a point borne out 
by the evidence Ive seen:  it clearly  shows they wanted this type of protection.
Again, after our adjudicator had issued their view, it was also subsequently raised by Mr H 
that he had, in fact, already possessed a form of income protection in 1996 with another  
company i.e. it existed  at the time of the PPI sale now complained of. That may well be his 
genuine recollection now. However,  I take the view that Mr and Mrs H are represented by a 
professional claims management  company and it provided no such evidence in its 
submission to us, some  time ago. I note Mr and Mrs H themselves both signed a complaint 
form, submitted through that same professional company, confirming that at the time they 
had no such means in place when they were sold the PPI by Lloyds.
In any event, the income protection  policy Mr H mentions now is said to have protected  a 
percentage of his income. Even if I were to apply  any weight to this information he hadnt 
previously mentioned, in my view, it merely portrays Mr and Mrs H as responsible and 
intelligent consumers who were  keen on planning  for the unforeseen challenges that family 
life presents. It adds  weight to them being  interested in products of this nature. It does not, in 
my estimation, mean  that Lloyds was wrong  to recommend a further insurance product that 
covered different eventualities, albeit there may well have some moderate resemblances in 
cover between the two. 
In short,  my findings on these later  submissions are that they lack consistency and came to 
us after contrary statements submitted by Mr and Mrs Hs representative and signed by 
them. And in any event, they would make no difference to my overall findings for the reasons 
explained. 
did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs H enough information at the point of sale?
Its certainly possible the information Lloyds  gave to Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. We only have limited documents  left from the sale.  However, in 
my view, this doesnt alter my overall  decision. I think they chose to take the PPI out and it 
looks like they specifically  wanted  this type of cover, with Mr Bs income being  protected. It 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them, nor was it too dissimilar to what they reasonably 
thought they were buying from the information they were probably given at the point of sale. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable for them  so it seems like it would have been useful 
if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have declined the 
cover, even  if Lloyds  might have done a better  job at explaining certain  things, particularly in 
relation to the policy rules.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs H would  have still taken out the PPI. It was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and I think the policy could have 
provided a useful benefit at a potentially difficult time if Mr H lost his job or was too ill to work. 
As Ive implied, Mr and Mrs Hs representative raised a large number of what I consider to be 
general complaint  points,  which  it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points 
Ref: DRN59864064include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly  applying the 
regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints;  these policies represented poor 
value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled  with 
the low claims  ratio;  and the duty of utmost good faith meant  Lloyds should  have  disclosed 
the poor value  and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions and the 
impact it had on the chances  of making a claim.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has failed to say how these  points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of their individual complaint, just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have, however, thought carefully  about  all these things and how they might apply in this 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.  
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold and for the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5986406