K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Express Finance (Bromley) Limited (trading as Payday Express) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr B had three loans  from Payday Express between June 2011 and September 2011:
Loan Date Amount Due Repayment Repaid Notes
1 15 Jun 2011 £320 1 Jul 2011 £400 1 Aug 2011 1 x rollover
2 17 Aug 2011 £320 2 Sep 2011 £400 2 Sep 2011 On time
3 7 Sep 2011 £320 3 Oct 2011 £400 £207.66 o/s 5 x rollovers
Payday Express says it asked Mr B for information about his income  and assessed  
affordability based on the Office of National Statistics (ONS) figure for average expenditure. 
It says that it found Mr B had sufficient disposable  income to make the repayments.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Payday Express did enough checks before approving each of the loans and found the loans 
to be affordable on that basis.
Mr B responded to say he had a number  of short-term loans with other lenders at the same 
time he was borrowing from Payday Express.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Payday  Express on 5 March 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Because the scheduled repayments were a large proportion of Mr Bs declared 
income of £2,700,  I considered Payday Express should have asked him about his 
regular expenditure;
I wasnt satisfied that the checks carried out by Payday Express  went  far enough in 
that respect, so I looked at Mr Bs bank statements from the time to see what  better 
checks were likely to have shown;
I found Mr Bs regular expenditure came to a minimum of £2,350 each month;
I considered it likely that Payday Express would not have found a £400 repayment  to 
be affordable to Mr B.
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or Payday Express, my provisional decision 
was that Payday Express should refund interest  and charges on all three loans (plus 8% 
statutory interest) and remove any associated negative information from his credit file.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision.
Payday Express responded to say, in summary, that the ONS figures were  not used in the 
original lending decision, only in the assessment  of the complaint. It says it had no evidence  
to suggest it checked Mr Bs expenditure at the time of the applications, so it agreed with the 
provisional findings. It added that Payday Express has made  a decision to no longer offset 
redress against any outstanding balances. It said that if Mr B wishes  to clear his balance  in 
full he can do so by contacting its account  services team.
Ref: DRN56473772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr B and Payday  Express  accepted the provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from my original  conclusions.
I acknowledge that Payday  Express will not be offsetting the redress  against Mr Bs 
outstanding balance, so Mr B now needs  to contact Payday Express himself  should he wish 
to clear his balance.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Express  Finance (Bromley) Limited (trading as 
Payday Express) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr B paid on the loans;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  for loan 3; 
Remove any negative  information about the loans from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Payday Express to take off tax from this interest.  Payday 
Express must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
Payday Express intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it 
must do so after deducting  the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5647377