K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about the margin call process  applied by IG Index Limited. He says:
There was a margin call closure,  without notice, of his short/selling options  positions 
(calls and puts in equity indexes and currency pairs) at 04:19 on 6 February 2018.
The margin call process, based on IGs terms and conditions, operates in breach of 
the regulators principles  for business; Principle 6 (Customers Interests, including 
reference to the clients best interests  rule) and Principle 8 (Conflicts of Interest).
In addition or in the alternative, the process is not fit for the purpose of catering for 
customers trading (particularly  selling ) options.
background
Mr K says he does not allege that IG breached its terms and conditions. He also says he 
does not allege that IG has not acted honestly or professionally  in the matter. However, he 
vehemently asserts that IGs application  of its margin call process and the process  itself are 
unfair  hence  his reference to breach of the clients best interests  rule. 
Mr K seeks  reimbursement  of his account  balance at the point of the margin call  which  was 
lost due to the call  but he says he is prepared to forgo  the potential  profit  from the positions 
that were closed. He also insists that it is really important to have  a review, within IG and 
within the sector of comparable firms, of how margin call closures  are applied to short  
options positions  hereafter referred to as SOPs.
In a nutshell, Mr Ks points are as follows:
The notion and practice of margin calls being  applied to SOPs inherently results in an 
outcome that defeats the idea of such calls protecting clients from avoidable  
accumulation of losses. Instead,  such calls (and closures)  ensure that a client with 
SOPs will incur a substantial  loss at some time. 
This is because of the nature  of options  trading and, in particular, SOPs  whereby 
actual risk exposure exists at the point of the options expiry and not before, whereas 
margin calls falsely  or erroneously operate as though such exposure exists at all and 
any time before expiry; there  is insufficient correlation between  the mark-to-market 
value and the risk exposure in the SOPs prior to expiry to justify  application  of margin  
calls; market corrections  and spikes are temporary occurrences which,  for SOPs, do 
not provide an accurate impression of potential losses at expiry; and, in summary, 
the arguably unique nature of SOPs  is such that a linear connection to mark-to-
market values does  not exist as it does for other  types of instruments so it cannot be 
fair to apply margin calls to SOPs in the same fashion as they are applied to other  
types of instruments.
Two potential ways to mitigate the unfair effect of margin  calls on SOPs are to 
monitor them in real time, at all times and with readiness to add funds at any time; or 
to have cash in the account in excess of the required margin.  The first is unrealistic 
and the second does  not resolve the unfairness effect. It is not possible to monitor  
positions 24 hours a day and seven  days a week  any such  expectation is 
unreasonable. Having, in the account, cash in excess of the margin  requirement 
could potentially reduce the frequency of margin calls but it does not stop their 
application on the same workings as they apply to other  instruments  this being the 
core area of unfairness. Furthermore,  having such excess cash could mean less 
frequent margin calls but, at some point in time, the excess  cash creates  the risk of 
Ref: DRN55511162greater losses as a result of margin calls that can eventually be triggered by sharper 
or larger market spikes or corrections than the cash balance and increased margin  
can withstand. Hence  the point that the root problem  within the way margin calls are 
applied to SOPs  is what must be addressed.
If this service cannot determine the matter beyond application of IGs terms to the 
facts in the context  of the existing regulations, the need arises for the industry and 
the regulator to review  the fitness for purpose  of margin call arrangements  for SOPs.  
In this respect, it would  be appropriate  to hold a meeting with this service, IG and 
even the regulator.
IG did not uphold  the complaint. Despite understanding some of Mr Ks points, it considered 
it had done nothing wrong in applying the margin calls to his positions as supported  by its 
terms and conditions for the account.  The matter was referred  to this service  and one of our 
adjudicators reached  the same conclusion as IG for broadly the same reasons. He 
suggested that Mr K consider raising his wider concerns with the regulator directly  if he 
wishes. Mr K did not accept the outcome  and he confirmed  that he had already contacted  
the regulator, without success in having his issues addressed. The adjudicator referred  the 
matter to an ombudsman  and informed Mr K that an ombudsman will consider whether (or 
not) the meeting he mentioned is appropriate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It is beyond my remit to determine  the 
wider issue(s), arising from Mr Ks complaint,  which he seeks  to address in a meeting. His 
explanation of the wider issue(s)  is both very competent and commendable. I understand the 
points he has made  within  them. However,  as I believe the adjudicator  mentioned, the wider  
issue(s) appears to be beyond the scope within which  this service operates.
The meeting  Mr K has mentioned appears to be for the dual purpose  of explaining his points 
and having them meaningfully addressed. As I said I above, I understand his points. I 
understand his descriptions of the unique effects that margin  calls can have on SOPs  
effects that do not apply to the other  financial instruments he mentioned,  given the way in 
which options and SOPs operate differently to those instruments. I do not consider that I 
need further explanation  of his points within a meeting. Furthermore,  as I am not in a 
position to address the wider (regulation  related) issue(s) that his points relate to  and in the 
manner that he seeks  I do not consider  that a meeting is necessary.
IGs terms and conditions
There appears to be no breach in this respect  and in terms of the circumstances surrounding 
IGs application of the margin call (and closures) to Mr Ks positions on 6 February 2018. 
Evidence suggests that the margin call was triggered and thereafter applied  as it was 
supposed to and as provided  for in the terms and conditions agreed between  both parties.  
As noted above,  Mr K does not allege a breach in this respect so this is not an issue  in 
dispute. I conclude  that IG did nothing wrong in applying the margin  call to the positions.  
Reference appears to have been made to the absence of prior notice, from IG, about the 
margin call. I have  not seen evidence that IG was obliged to give such  prior notice.
Principle 8 (Conflicts of Interest)
Ref: DRN55511163The wording  of this principle requires a firm to  manage conflicts of interest fairly  The 
suggestion within this is that such conflicts might arise in the provision of a regulated  service  
but their existence,  alone, does not mean  the firm has done something wrong. The duty,  
upon a firm, that comes  with any such conflict is to manage it fairly.
In Mr Ks case, the conflict he alleges is that IG enjoys an advantage in selling options  upon 
elevated levels of volatility subsequent to closing  out positions by hedging  and then resolving 
the positions after volatility subsides.  I understand the explanation that he has given to 
support this assertion. However, despite  his strength of feeling  that his description is more 
likely (than not) to be or have been  IGs practice,  IG disagrees. IG refutes the assertion, so it 
is arguable that, at best, it is an assertion based  in theory  especially as I have not seen 
enough evidence  that IG actually did what Mr K says it did. It appears  that there is not quite 
enough evidence  to say the alleged conflict of interest existed. Even  if it did, I am not 
persuaded that I have seen enough  evidence to say it was not managed fairly.
Principle 6 (Customers  Interests, including reference to the clients best interests  rule)
Principle 6 requires  firms  to pay due regard to the interests of their customers and to treat 
them fairly. The clients best interests  rule is at COBS 2.1.1 (R) of the regulators Handbook, 
which says A firm must act honestly,  fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.
As I said above Mr K does not allege that IG acted dishonestly or unprofessionally, so the 
only issue to determine from COBS 2.1.1 (R), and Principle 6, is whether (or not) IG treated 
Mr K fairly in its process for applying the margin calls. This issue primarily relates to the 
terms on which the margin  call process was based  without them the process would not 
have applied   so the key question is whether (or not) those terms were fair.
Part 2 of the Consumer Rights  Act 2015  (the CRA) says an unfair  contract term would not be 
binding on the consumer and would be one which causes a significant imbalance in the parties 
rights and obligations under the contract, to the detriment of the consumer. I am not persuaded 
that such an imbalance existed between Mr K and IG in relation to the margin call process. He 
would have agreed to IGs terms and conditions with reasonable awareness and knowledge of the 
key trading related terms and processes. He was not locked into those terms (and processes), he 
could have decided  not to open  the account  or, if later, could have decided to close  it at his 
discretion. The implication that arises from his trading in the account is that he wilfully agreed to do 
so under the relevant  terms  (and processes). In this context, I do not consider that there was a 
significant imbalance between the parties.  
With regards to the fairness  of the terms for the margin call process at the point of its application 
on 6 February 2018, the fact that they remained agreed terms is also relevant. Beyond  that, and as 
Mr K appears to acknowledge,  the manner  in which the process was applied was not particularly 
inconsistent with the way in which other firms apply comparable margin  call processes  without  a 
distinction made for SOPs as he says should be the case. IG also makes an arguable point about 
the need to apply a margin call process (that is influenced by mark-to-market values) to leveraged 
trading that takes place in its accounts. The argument would be that it was/is reasonable for it to 
apply a process that is broadly fair to the range of trading conducted  by its customers.  In the 
absence of regulation that required it to apply a bespoke margin call process for SOPs, I am not 
persuaded that such an approach was unreasonable or unfair to Mr K, as customer  trading SOPs.
Ref: DRN55511164my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5551116