K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that on the expiry  of their mortgage product Santander UK Plc gave 
them incorrect information about  the availability of new products, causing  them  to remain on 
its standard variable  rate (SVR) at greatly increased cost to them.
background
The initial mortgage  product on Mr and Mrs Ms Santander mortgage ended in 2012. They 
contacted Santander to put in place a new product rather than revert to the SVR. They say 
Santander told them they wouldnt be able to switch to a new mortgage product because  
their mortgage was interest-only. Santander said it didnt offer interest-only products so they 
would have no choice  but to start a new application for a repayment mortgage. They couldnt 
afford to do that.
They made contact  with Santander  again  in 2013, 2016 and 2017  to check if there were  any 
changes and were  told on each occasion that there wasnt  an available product. 
In 2018 they spoke to a mortgage broker  who advised they were  paying too much on a SVR 
and that they could  switch  with Santander very easily.  He managed  to switch to another  
product within  a few hours which completed within three days. Their payments were  reduced 
from £1248.18  at 4.74% per month down to £340.77  at 1.29%.
Mr and Mrs M believe they were misled and given  wrong information by Santander.  They 
were led to believe that they werent  able to change their product  and were  trapped  on the 
SVR because of the incorrect  information  Santander  provided.
On their complaint  to Santander it said that its file notes showed  it had spoken to 
Mr and Mrs M on 30 May 2012, 19 April 2013,  25 August 2015 and 20 July 2017. Each note 
showed that they declined  the discussed changes or were calling for information only.
In 2017 theyd contacted  Santander to discuss converting their mortgage  to repayment, and 
they asked what  rates would be available to them on repayment. Santander said there  were  
lower fixed-interest products available, but Mr and Mrs M declined and said theyd been 
offered lower  rates elsewhere. There was no discussion about what interest rates would be 
available to them on interest-only.
Santander said it had also written to them in 2012  when their previous product ended, 
providing details  on how to secure a new product. They were on interest-only at that time.
Mr and Mrs M then brought  their complaint to this service but our investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He said hed seen  the call notes which Santander referred  to. On 
30 May 2012, Mr and Mrs M declined the discussed  changes. And they called on 19 April 
2013 and 20 July 2017, but were looking for information only.
The investigator had listened to the 20 July 2017 call. Mrs M said theyd  like to borrow some  
more and move onto repayment.  She mentioned that they had a loan elsewhere and spoke 
about possibly  consolidating it all into a repayment  mortgage. She said theyd like to borrow  
around £60,000. Santander said that the maximum  it could offer for debt consolidation was 
£35,000. Santander had said it could offer 1.23% for a two-year  fixed  rate but Mrs M said 
weve been offered  much  better  rates somewhere else and didnt proceed with the 
application. Mrs M said they were thinking of moving elsewhere. Shed only spoken about  a 
Ref: DRN53354602repayment mortgage at this time and hadnt  mentioned interest-only fixed rates. The 
investigator couldnt say Santander had done anything wrong by not offering an interest-only 
rate during  the call, as it wasnt requested.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree and asked  for an ombudsman to look at the case. They  said it 
wasnt acceptable to expect them to continually contact Santander to see if it had amended 
its product range, or that they should have to go through the hassle and expense of 
switching to another company. Obviously  leaving them on the SVR was very profitable  for 
Santander with extra interest payments of £800 per month for seven years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M say they shouldnt have to contact Santander to see if it had amended its 
product range. But Im afraid thats how it works. When introducing a new mortgage product 
a lender isnt obliged  to consider which of its existing borrowers might  benefit and notify  
them accordingly. It was up to Mr and Mrs M to contact Santander.
Mr and Mrs M say in their complaint form that they did that in 2012, 2013,  2016 and 2017 
and were told they wouldnt be able to switch  to a new mortgage product because  their 
mortgage was interest-only. Santanders  notes of these calls dont support this version of 
events. The only other evidence I have is a recording of the call in 2017. Ive listened to this 
and it doesnt  support  Mr and Mrs Ms version of events either. Theres  no mention at all of 
the availability  of interest-only mortgage  products,  nor any enquiry about them.
Mr and Mrs M have  since acknowledged in an email to the investigator that they didnt in fact 
ask about this.
In order to uphold  this complaint Id need to be satisfied  on the balance of probabilities  firstly 
that Santander did have fixed rate interest-only  products available in 2012, 2013  and 2016, 
and secondly  that it falsely told Mr and Mrs M that it didnt. But theres no evidence  about 
product availability, and on the available  evidence Im not persuaded that its more  likely than 
not that Santander gave  false  information. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5335460