K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that The Co-operative  Bank  Plc (when  it was trading as Britannia 
Building Society) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI). 
The Co-operative Bank merged with Britannia Building Society and it is dealing with this 
complaint. So, to keep things  simpler, from now on Ill just refer to Co-op  Bank  as the seller  
in my decision.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI alongside a mortgage  in 1997. The policy  provided Mr C with 
cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
Co-op Bank  has already agreed to refund the unemployment premiums  Mr and Mrs C paid 
up to October 2004 as it mistakenly charged them for this type of cover  when theyd  only 
applied for accident  and sickness  insurance  in 1997.
In 2004 Mr and Mrs C took out a further  advance and additional  PPI to protect their new 
monthly repayments if Mr C couldnt work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about  the PPI they 
were sold.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed. Although they have a number of concerns  they told us 
the basis of their complaint is that the advisor they spoke to made them  think that they had 
to take out the PPI as part of the mortgage application process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
what happened  in 1997 when Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage  
I dont know what the advisor told Mr and Mrs C about PPI. But I cant fairly say that 
Co-op Bank  didnt make  it clear that the cover was optional  just based on what Mr and Mrs C 
say. I say this because I think the paperwork  they had to complete wouldve made it clear 
that PPI was optional and it was up to Mr and Mrs C to say if they wanted it with their 
mortgage.
Ive seen the mortgage application Mr and Mrs C completed in 1997. This shows that PPI 
was offered to Mr and Mrs C when they were applying for their mortgage. There  were Yes 
and No tick box options in the section headed  Mortgage Payment Protection. So I think 
that Mr and Mrs C wouldve seen that PPI was available as an optional extra and it was their 
choice if they wanted  it with their mortgage. Theres a tick in the Yes box.
Ref: DRN53232992They also signed  a form which  clearly states  that the advisor  has explained details of 
accident, sickness and unemployment insurance  and that these are not a condition of sale.
And this is borne out by Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  offer  this mentions nothing that 
suggests that PPI was required as part of the borrowing. 
A separate  PPI application had to be filled in if they wanted to take out PPI. Ive seen the PPI 
application that Mr C completed in 1997. His name is shown on the form indicating he was 
the person to be insured.  He answered  questions to check he was eligible for the policy  and 
chose to take out accident and sickness cover  only from a range of possible cover options.  
Mr C signed the completed form to get the policy. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Cs home wouldve been  at risk if their mortgage payments  werent  kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and better protection  than they had otherwise. 
So, I can see why Mr and Mrs C mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  
I can completely understand if Mr and Mrs C have forgotten these details as this happened 
such a long time ago. But, based  on the information Ive seen,  I think  its likely that 
Mr and Mrs C decided they did want the benefits  that PPI offered. And, on balance, I find 
that they chose  to buy the policy, knowing it was up to them  to say if they wanted it.
Mr and Mrs C feel certain  that the PPI was personally recommended.  Co-op Bank says it 
didnt recommend the cover. It told us that its sales process at the time didnt include giving 
customers personal advice about taking out PPI. And Ive no reason  to think its likely  that 
Co-op Bank  wouldnt have followed its usual sales process when  it sold PPI to 
Mr and Mrs C. So I think its unlikely that Co-op  Bank advised  Mr and Mrs C to have PPI. But 
it still had to make sure that they had enough information to make a proper decision about  
whether PPI was right for them. And if that didnt  happen, I must decide if this makes any 
difference overall.
Ive taken into account that Mr C told us his employer  paid at least 12 months sick pay. But 
I think its likely that Mr and Mrs C still couldve benefitted from having  PPI. The policy  
wouldve paid out the full monthly benefit amount on top of his sick pay for up to 12 months 
per claim. This couldve been a useful benefit  at whats likely  to have been a difficult time if 
Mr C had been off work  sick  especially  if Mr and Mrs C faced extra  costs  as a result  of 
Mr C being unwell or disabled. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs C wouldve always had savings they couldve relied  on if theyd 
needed to make a claim - or what their savings mightve been  intended  for. Having PPI 
meant Mr and Mrs C could keep savings intact  to spend on other things or provide them with 
financial security for the future. 
Mrs C wasnt in paid employment  at that time. And relying on other people to help out in the 
event of money problems  isnt as dependable  as PPI as everyones  circumstances can 
change unexpectedly. So I can see why Mr and Mrs C mightve  wanted  the security  that 
having PPI gave them and I cant fairly say they couldnt have benefitted from having it.
Ref: DRN53232993Its possible some of the information  Co-op  Bank gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But it doesnt  look as if Mr C was affected  by any policy  
conditions that mightve  made it difficult for him to benefit under the accident and sickness  
part of the cover. So, I dont think more information about policy exclusions and limitations 
wouldve made any difference  to their decision to take out this cover.  
Its possible that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have been aware how much  they would pay for the 
policy. But Ive seen  nothing to suggest  it was unaffordable for them. They  made a separate 
application to have PPI when they didnt have to take it out. So it looks  like they were happy 
to pay to have  this cover at the time. Even if there were failings in the way Co-op Bank sold 
accident and sickness cover to Mr and Mrs C, I dont think  its likely that better  information  
wouldve put them off buying it when they took out their mortgage  in 1997. 
Co-op Bank  added unemployment cover to Mr and Mrs Cs policy and paid for this for the 
first 12 months that the policy was running.  So Mr and Mrs C had the benefit of 
unemployment cover  free of charge during this period. After that, Co-op  Bank says it 
mistakenly kept the unemployment cover part of the policy  running  and it charged the 
monthly premiums to Mr and Mrs C  even though this wasnt  something  Mr and Mrs C had 
said they wanted. When investigating their complaint, Co-op Bank identified this error.  It 
offered to pay an amount to Mr and Mrs C to put them back  into the position  they wouldve 
been in if they hadnt  been wrongly  charged. I think thats fair - and the amount offered is in 
line with what this service  would expect to see.  
what happened  in 2004 when Mr and Mrs C took out a further advance   
PPI wasnt extended  automatically to cover extra borrowing on the mortgage  account. A 
separate PPI application had to be filled in if Mr and Mrs C wanted  to take out PPI. Ive seen 
the PPI application that Mr C completed  in 2004. He answered  questions on the form to 
check he was eligible for the policy. He indicated  that he wanted to take out accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.  And he filled in details of the amount of monthly benefit 
required to protect Mr and Mrs Cs new mortgage monthly repayment. Mr C signed the 
completed form to get the policy. 
I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs C wouldve understood at the time that PPI wasnt  
required with their further advance as theyd  already taken out some extra borrowing on their 
mortgage account a few years earlier  without taking out PPI. 
Co-op Bank  says that in 2004 it recommended  full accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover for Mr and Mrs C  plus some extra benefit  to cover other monthly bills. In the event, 
Mr and Mrs C chose to buy enough  protection to cover their mortgage monthly repayment 
only. 
So, despite  what Mr and Mrs C say, it looks to me like extra PPI was added  to their 
mortgage account alongside  their further  advance in 2004 when they chose the amount of 
cover they wanted.  And the information Ive seen suggests that they understood at the time 
that it was their choice  to have it  even if theyve  now forgotten  this. 
If a business makes a recommendation  about  PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable  steps to make  sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable. 
Ref: DRN53232994Although Mrs C was working  part time in 2004,  as far as I can see their circumstances 
otherwise were broadly the same.  The new policy protected Mr and Mrs Cs monthly 
repayments for up to 12 months if Mr C was off work sick or disabled.  And it also paid out 
the monthly benefit amount theyd  chosen for up to 12 months if he lost his job unexpectedly 
and was out of work. Looking at their circumstances, as Mr C was the main earner, its likely 
that losing  his regular income  wouldve had a significant impact  on the family finances. So 
I think PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs C.  
Mr C continued to be able to take advantage of all the main benefits under the policy.  And 
theres nothing to suggest that the extra  cost was a problem for Mr and Mrs C when they set 
up the arrangements at their bank to pay for this additional PPI. 
Taking all their circumstances into account, even  if there were  failings in the way 
Co-op Bank  sold them PPI in 2004,  I dont think that better information  wouldve put 
Mr and Mrs C off having it given  the useful protection it offered them.  I think its likely that 
they wouldve  still bought the policy.
In coming to my decision Ive taken carefully  into account everything Mr and Mrs C have said 
in response to our adjudicators view. I accept  that some of the paperwork may have  been  
completed by the advisor. That said, I think that was likely as a result of a conversation  
between them and Co-op Bank.  
And by signing the completed paperwork Mr and Mrs C were  agreeing  to the information  that 
had been put on the form. 
So what  they say about this doesnt affect my overall decision that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C 
because: 
The Co-operative Bank Plc got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr and Mrs C about  that. Because  
The Co-operative Bank  Plc didnt tell Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, The Co-operative Bank  Plc has paid back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case. 
The Co-operative Bank Plc has also offered to refund  the amount Mr and Mrs C paid to have  
unemployment cover  (plus interest) after the free period ended and before they took out 
accident, sickness and unemployment in 2004. 
Ref: DRN53232995my final decision 
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this and sent them a cheque so I dont award  any further compensation for this. 
The Co-operative Bank Plc should also refund the amount owing  to Mr and Mrs C in respect 
of the unemployment premiums  they were incorrectly charged, as it has offered to do (if this 
hasnt happened  already). 
If Mr and Mrs C find they are now unable to cash the cheque(s)  sent to them  some time ago 
then Id expect  The Co-operative Bank  Plc to re-issue any payment still owing to them.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019. 
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5323299