K821x#15complaint
Mr Q says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He said the repayments took up a large  
part of his wages  so he had to borrow time and time again. He says that Myjar shouldnt 
have approved these loans.  
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan (loan  1) and three instalment loans Myjar provided 
to Mr Q between April 2017 and March 2018.  Some of the information Myjar has provided 
about Mr Qs lending  history is as follows:
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 14/04/2017 £375 47 31/05/2017
2 31/05/2017 £1,000 183 30/11/2017
3 30/11/2017 £925 182 29/03/2018
4 29/03/2018 £582 365 outstanding
When Myjar was notified that Mr Q had brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  
Service it said that it shouldnt have approved loans 1 and 3.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and also upheld Mr Qs complaint about loan 4. 
Overall he thought that loans 1, 3 and 4 shouldnt have been  approved.  Myjar agreed and 
made an offer in line with what the adjudicator recommended  for these loans.  
Mr Q disagreed. He said that all of the lending wasnt appropriate. As no agreement  was 
reached the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr Q could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Qs complaint.
Myjar agrees that it shouldnt have approved loans 1, 3 and 4. Because  of this I dont think  
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision  about 
this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr Q had with Myjar. So they 
are something I will take into account when  considering loan 2.
Ref: DRN59902072When he took loan 2, Mr Q committed to repaying  just under £300 a month for six months.  
Ive seen a record  of the information he provided  when he completed his loan application for 
loan 2. Mr Q said he had a monthly income  of £4,000. He had regular credit commitments of 
£600 and Myjar  calculated his other expenditure to be just over £400. This left him with a 
significant amount  of disposable income.  
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Myjar was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr Q had at the time. The information it obtained  from the credit reference  
agency shows that Mr Qs financial situation  had improved from when he took loan 1. In 
particular the amount  of Mr Qs other  borrowing had decreased by a reasonably  large 
amount. 
So there isnt anything that wouldve prompted Myjar to investigate  Mr Qs circumstances 
further. So I think it was reasonable for Myjar to rely on the information it obtained to the 
extent that it did.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Myjar did before approving loan 2 
was proportionate and the checks showed that Mr Q could sustainably  afford  to repay  the 
loan. I think its decision to lend for this loan was reasonable  but as Myjar lent Mr Q the other 
loans when it shouldnt  have, it needs  to put things right.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr Q paid on loans 1, 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 1, 3 and 4 from Mr Qs credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Mr Q still owes Myjar  any of the principal balance he borrowed on his her final loan Myjar 
should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding balance. Myjar should  
then re-work the account as if all payments made by Mr Q went  to towards the principal. But 
importantly, Myjar needs to make sure that Mr Q doesnt repay  more  than the principal 
amount borrowed.  
If after doing this Mr Q hasnt repaid  the principal he borrowed Myjar can deduct  this from 
the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr Q has already paid enough to repay the principal 
then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
And if Myjar no longer  owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction  due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mr Q.
Ref: DRN59902073my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Qs complaint. 
MYJAR Limited should pay Mr Q compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5990207