K821x#15complaint
Its agreed that Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Mrs A says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs A took out in 2003.
I sent Mrs A and FICL  my provisional  decision on 13 November 2018 explaining why I was 
intending to uphold the complaint, and the direction I was intending to make.  I said that Id 
consider anything further the parties  sent me before 13 December 2018 before I made my 
final decision.
Neither party has sent me further  points for me to consider in response to my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint, and Ive explain why again below.
Mrs A has told us that she was a student  on a fulltime education  course and working just six 
hours per week when the PPI was sold to her. From  all of the information  Ive seen, Ive not 
seen anything that makes  me doubt this, and I accept its most likely true. Its my 
understanding, however, that to be eligible for the PPI Mrs A needed to be working at least
16 hours per week  which, as Ive said, I dont think she was. Mrs A therefore  wasnt eligible
for the PPI. This means the PPI wasnt  of any use to her.
I dont think Mrs A wouldve  bought  the policy if shed realised she wasnt  eligible. So, I think  
Mrs A has lost out because of what FICL  did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs A in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs A would have owed when she closed her store  
card account if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the 
mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Ref: DRN54254712FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs A owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs A made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs A would have 
owed when she closed her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate is 8% a year.*
C.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs A would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs A paid more than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs A paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs A wouldve  owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.*
D.FICL  should tell Mrs A what its done  to work out A, B and C.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs As complaint  and I direct  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5425471