K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) when she took out her mortgage.
background
Mrs M took out a mortgage in 2002 and at the same time she bought a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP). This is a packaged protection  plan and it consisted of three  parts - 
PPI, critical illness cover  and life cover. 
Mrs M took out all three parts of the plan but to be clear this decision is about the PPI part of 
the policy only. The PPI covered Mrs M for accident,  sickness  and unemployment. It would 
have cost around £16 per month and on a successful claim it would have paid out a monthly 
benefit of £269.36 for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed and asked 
that her complaint  be referred to an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I realise  Mrs M will be 
disappointed with my decision so I will explain why below.
Mrs M has told us that she was led to believe the insurance was compulsory and she had to 
take it. Halifax hasnt  got all the paperwork from the time. This isnt unusual  or surprising as 
the sale took place so long ago. But it has sent some internal records from which  I can see 
she has been asked  some information about her circumstances. I think  she likely would have 
received a welcome letter setting out her choices. So I think its likely she could have 
questioned it with Halifax if she was unsure about  it. From what we know about  these types  
of policies I think she would likely  have  been  given a choice about buying it and would have 
known she was choosing  the PPI and had the option to decline it if she didnt want it.
Halifax advised Mrs M to take out the policy in a branch. That meant  it had to make sure it 
was suitable for her as well as giving her enough clear information  so she could  decide  for 
herself whether  or not she wanted  it.
Looking at her circumstances and the terms and conditions of the policy,  I think  it would 
have been suitable for her.
Mrs M was eligible for the PPI. And she has told us she was in good health  at the time she 
took out the cover. And whilst I have thought very carefully about what Mrs M has told me 
about her job I dont think she would have been affected by any of the main  limitations  or 
exclusions set out in the policys terms and conditions. 
Mrs M has said she was an agency worker  but nothing in the policy  terms would have likely 
prevented her from making  a claim. I can see that Mrs M through her representative has 
Ref: DRN53499192referred us to the term in the policy which would  have prevented her from making a claim if 
she was aware of any impending unemployment. But I have taken into account she was 
taking out a mortgage and I dont think it would have been  likely she would have thought she 
would have been made redundant  when she took out that mortgage  or the PPI. I can also 
see that the Halifax representative  likely asked her a question about  her impending 
unemployment  to which it looks like she answered  no. So I dont  think she would have 
been caught by this term and on balance theres nothing else in the policy  I can see which 
likely would have prevented her from making  a successful claim. 
Mrs M had no sick pay from her employer and she hasnt told us about any other  means she 
had at the time. The policy  would have paid out for up to 24 months if she couldnt  work or 
lost her job. As she was taking out a mortgage,  the consequences of not being able to repay 
it were serious. So I think she might have valued the protection the PPI gave and I think it 
could have been useful if things went wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think the PPI was unaffordable for her.
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it could have been. But thats not enough 
to uphold this complaint.  I next need to think whether Mrs M would have been  put off buying 
the PPI if shed had better or clearer  information.  I cant say she would have been. It looks  
like she chose the PPI and it would have been  useful for her if things went wrong. And for 
much the same reasons as Ive explained above  as to why I think  the PPI was suitable,  I 
dont think Mrs M would have been put off buying  the cover even if shed been given more  
information about it.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs M lost out because of anything Halifax  did wrong and I dont uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5349919