K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs O complain HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly assigned   or recorded that it had 
assigned  their life insurance policy to its First Direct mortgage business without their 
authority. They  feel that in the event of a claim, the sum assured would not have been  paid 
out or in a timely manner.  Therefore the policy was not fit for purpose  and HSBC  should 
return the premiums.
background 
Mr and Mrs O took out this term assurance policy in 2000. The application form shows it was 
not to be assigned to any borrowing commitment.
In July 2018 Mr O contacted HSBC to place the policy in trust. HSBC said that according  to 
its records the policy was assigned to its First Direct mortgage division so it asked it to 
release its interest  in the policy. First Direct confirmed - in September  2018 - that it had no 
interest in the policy.
HSBC provided Mr O with conflicting information, saying the policy  was assigned but had 
since been released, but subsequently admitting its own system  notes were incorrect.  It 
confirmed its records had now been updated and the policy was no longer marked  as 
assigned to First Direct.
It initially offered Mr and Mrs O £250 in lieu of this error, adding a further  £220  after they 
brought their complaint  to this service.
Mr O said that if a claim had been made the sum assured would either  have been paid to 
First Direct  or not have been paid out in a timely manner. It was therefore likely that their 
lender would have enforced a sale of the property and his children would  have been  evicted.
An adjudicator at this service  said she could  not recommend a refund of premiums as 
redress cannot be based on a loss that has not occurred. She also felt there was nothing  to 
suggest the sum assured  would not have been paid out, adding it could not have been paid 
to First Direct as it had never had an interest  in the policy.
Mr O did not agree. He stated there  had been a financial  loss as he had paid premiums  for a 
policy which  was not properly implemented.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
Mr and Mrs O still own this policy and it has not been assigned to anyone so they have 
clearly not suffered any financial  loss. There are, therefore, no grounds for refunding the 
premiums which have  paid for the life cover they have enjoyed over the past 19 years.
I do not agree that HSBCs mistake in wrongly  recording  that the policy had been assigned 
would have ever led to First Direct  receiving  the sum assured if either  of them  had died. Nor 
do I believe HSBC would  not have paid this sum out to their dependents.  I accept that its 
administrative error wouldve meant some delay,  as occurred in 2018 when they sought to 
Ref: DRN51103382put this policy in trust. I also accept that such a delay would almost certainly have created 
greater trouble and upset  if Mr O or Mrs O had died and the proceeds could not be 
distributed promptly.
In that situation  I would probably have instructed HSBC to pay more than the £470 it has 
offered. But, thankfully,  this has not happened. Given  this, I am satisfied that HSBCs offer is 
not unreasonable. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  but only to the extent outlined  above.  I instruct  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to 
pay Mr and Mrs O £470.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5110338