K820x#14complaint
Miss I has complained Santander  UK plc didnt  refund her in 2014 after a disputed  cash  
machine transaction.
background
In 2018 Miss I queried why Santander hadnt refunded her £50 following a disputed  cash  
machine withdrawal in January 2014.  Shed  recently  been  going through statements  and 
noticed shed  never  had money refunded after shed complained originally in 2014.  
Santander confirmed  that because of the time that had elapsed there was now no clear  
evidence Miss I had ever contacted them in January 2014 to raise the initial  dispute.  They  
also felt it was her responsibility to monitor her account. She should have raised her concern 
earlier. They  wouldnt  refund  the money  involved.
Miss I brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service.  Our adjudicator  noticed  Miss I had 
contacted Santander two days  after the disputed cash  machine  withdrawal  in 2014. Although 
the call was no longer  available,  she thought it was more than likely this was about the 
withdrawal she disputed. She asked Santander  to refund the £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Santander wouldnt agree  to this.
Our adjudicator felt overall Santander  had done nothing wrong. She noted Miss I had raised  
a further cash machine  dispute in 2017  so, like Santander, wondered why she hadnt  raised  
the 2014 incident again. It seems shed  had plenty of opportunity  to do so.
Miss I disagreed with this outcome.  Shes  asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a different 
conclusion to our adjudicator. Ill explain  why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent when  looking  after their card and PIN but 
nothing that Ive seen that would have an impact on how Im considering  this case.  So when 
we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
Its worth  saying  first that as this all happened in January  2014  there  are limited records  
available and some  detail is lacking.
Miss I doesnt dispute on 13 January 2014  she attempted to withdraw £50 from a cash  
machine. I can see from Santanders records she was debited  £50. Miss I has told us she 
was with friends and didnt raise her complaint with Santander when she didnt  get £50 until 
a couple of days later. As a student she had coursework to complete. But when she phoned  
Santander on 15 January, she was told her dispute would be looked  into. This obviously  
never happened as she never received any refund  (or follow-up).
Ref: DRN54055592So to help me decide whats right here,  Ive noted:
The evidence shows Miss I called  Santander on 15 January 2014. This was two days 
after the disputed  £50 withdrawal so in all likelihood this is why she phoned. 
Santander obviously no longer  has this call. Im not surprised because  of the time 
that has passed. Santander  said Miss I has no history of phoning them regularly.
Miss I also withdrew a further £20 on 13 January 2014. This suggests to me she 
didnt get the original  £50 she requested but, as a student and mindful of her money, 
she withdrew a smaller  amount at a different cash machine.  
Im also not too surprised she had other  things  on her mind and didnt follow  up the 
dispute with Santander  at that time, or in 2017  when  she queried another payment. 
Shes told us she only noticed this when she checked her statements in 2018.
Miss I has been willing to come to the ombudsman service  to dispute just £50 and 
wait for a resolution for over a year. This seems  like an unusual step to take if she 
got the £50 when  she originally withdrew  it.
I asked Santander  whether  in light of this they would now re-consider. They  still felt shed  
taken a very long time to dispute this £50. However taking everything into account they were 
willing to refund £50 to her, adding  8% simple interest to that amount and also paying an 
additional £50 for the inconvenience caused.
I think this is a fair outcome and asked Miss I whether she wished to accept this. I was 
unable to contact  her so think its right I complete  a final decision confirming Santanders 
offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Santander UK plc to:
Refund Miss I £50 for the disputed cash machine withdrawal that took place on 
13 January 2014;
Add 8% simple interest from that date to the date of settlement; and
Pay Miss I an additional £50 as compensation for the inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5405559