K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that he didnt receive  notification when his savings account  with another 
bank was transferred  to Santander UK Plc. Hes also unhappy  he hasnt received statements 
of his account.
background
Mr L held a savings  account with a bank that Ill refer to as B. He didnt realise this had been  
transferred to Santander until he attended a branch to discuss  his current  account. During 
that visit Mr L was told he had a savings account,  which he had no knowledge of.
It became clear that this savings account  was a savings account  that Mr L had held with B. 
Santander said it took over Bs savings accounts  in 2008. But Mr L said he still had his old 
account book  with B and he hadnt  received a new card or any statements about  his new 
savings account  from Santander. Mr L said he was told to discard his old book and a new 
card would be sent to him.
Mr L wasnt happy that his account had been  transferred  to Santander without his 
knowledge. So, he made a complaint. But after Santander investigated Mr Ls complaint it 
didnt uphold  it. It said it communicated with all affected customers  at the time to ensure they 
were aware of how the changes would affect  them. It also said its acquisition  of B was widely  
reported in the media.  And it explained  that the process of it taking over Bs savings account  
had been fully approved  by all appropriate  regulators. So, it thought Mr L ought to have been  
aware that his account had been transferred  to it.
Santander also said it had made  Mr L aware that his savings account had been  transferred 
to it because he had been sent annual statements confirming  the interest he had been  
receiving on his account balance. Mr L said he had never received any statements. But 
Santander said it hadnt received any returned  mail. So, it had no reason to think he wasnt 
receiving correspondence  it was sending him.
Mr L wasnt happy with Santanders response to his complaint or the way in which  it had 
been dealt with. So he referred  it to our service. Our investigator looked into this and, while  
they empathised  with Mr L, didnt think that Santander had done  anything wrong or needed 
to do anything more  here.  But Mr L disagreed and asked for the matter  to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr L and Santander  that Ive read everything  thats been  sent. 
So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered  it. Its just that I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Mr L said he isnt happy with how Santander  responded to his complaint. Strictly speaking,  
we dont have  the power  to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint handling  
Ref: DRN55472072as its not a regulated activity under the legislation  that governs  our service. So, even if I did 
think Santander hadnt done things  well in this regard,  I wouldnt  be able to uphold  that 
element of his concerns or make an award.  I cant act outside  the law. So, I wont  spend any 
time in this decision on that. Ill deal solely with Mr Ls complaint that he didnt receive 
notification that his savings account  with B had been  transferred to Santander or any 
statements relating  to that account.
Santander said it wrote to all affected  customers in 2008 to explain that savings accounts 
that had been held with B had been  transferred to it. I havent seen the original letter  sent to 
Mr L advising that his account had been  transferred. Santander  has said that due to the 
passage of time it isnt able to provide a copy of this letter, which  isnt unreasonable  in the 
circumstances. Mr L says he didnt  receive  any notification informing him his account had 
been transferred  to Santander. But I think it would have written  to all customers who had 
accounts that were  being transferred to it and that would  have  included  Mr L. I cant see any 
reason why Santander wouldnt  have  followed that process. 
Santander said its acquisition of Bs savings  accounts was widely  reported  in the media  and 
Ive no reason to doubt that happened. Mr L doesnt recall seeing  this though. And I think  its 
possible that he didnt  notice media attention about  Santanders acquisition  of B. The reports  
may not have stood  out to him at the time.
 
Santander said it sent Mr L annual statements relating to his savings account because  he 
was receiving interest each year. But Mr L said he didnt receive any correspondence. 
Santander hasnt  been able to produce  evidence showing that these  statements  were posted 
because it said it uses a third party mailing  company to send these to its customers. It isnt 
unusual for banks to use external companies  to mail statements and correspondence to its 
customers. And I think this explains why it isnt able to produce  evidence showing the dates 
it sent mail to Mr L.
Santander said that when correspondence was sent to Mr L it was correctly addressed to 
him at the address it holds  on file. And, based on the evidence,  Ive seen Im satisfied that 
when Santander  wrote to Mr L it used  the correct address.  I say this because  its the address 
that we have recorded for him.
Ive seen screenshots from Santander  which confirm that there arent any return mail blocks  
on the account or account alerts that show mail has been returned  undelivered. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that annual statements  were posted 
to Mr L. 
I accept what Mr L says about not receiving any correspondence from Santander about his 
transferred account.  But this is perhaps  due to issues with the post where he lives.  I can see 
that he didnt receive  at least  three  letters our service sent him after he referred  his 
complaint to us. Ive seen copies of the correspondence he didnt receive  and Im satisfied 
the letters were  sent to him by our service.  
Overall, I think this all goes to indicate that Mr L has been experiencing a problem receiving  
post. While  its very unfortunate when things get lost in the post, I dont think  it would be fair 
for me to hold Santander  responsible for that. Its not something over which it has any 
control. 
So, while I recognise  Mr Ls strength of feeling about  this complaint, Im satisfied  that 
Santander notified him that his account  was transferred to it in 2008. And Im persuaded it 
Ref: DRN55472073sent annual statements to him. So, I cant fairly find that its done anything  wrong here.  It 
follows that I wont be telling it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5547207