K820x#14Complaint
Mr M and Mrs F have  complained about  a term assurance policy they took out, provided by 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva).  They have said they were told they had to take 
the policy in order  to obtain the mortgage they were applying for at the time.
Background
Mr M and Mrs F were applying for a mortgage  in 2001. At the same time they took out a term 
assurance policy. Very little detail has been provided by both parties  about  this policy but 
from what I have seen  it looks like the policy matched the term and the level of borrowing of 
the mortgage and was taken out to purely provide protection for the mortgage  they were  
applying for.
Mr M and Mrs F have  said they were  forced  to take out the life protection even though they 
didnt want or need it. They have also referred  to it being a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
found that the policy was sold by and independent financial adviser (IFA)  and so Aviva 
couldnt be held responsible for anything concerning the sale of the policy.
Mr M and Mrs F didnt  agree  with the assessment. So as no agreement  could be reached, 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Firstly, given Mr M and Mrs F have  referred to this policy as being  a PPI policy I think it 
would be worthwhile me explaining why this isnt the case. A PPI policy is one which  
provides a regular  payment to cover  the regular mortgage repayments in the event the policy 
holder(s) is unable  to work due to a health  problem or suffers unemployment. It ensures the 
regular monthly repayments can be met, usually for a short  period of time (6 months). In 
contrast a life policy such as the one this complaint is concerned with provides a lump  sum 
payment upon  death that can be used  by the surviving policyholder or remaining family 
members to redeem the remainder of the mortgage  in full.
Now turning the policy in question, I am satisfied that this policy  wasnt sold to 
Mr M and Mrs F by Aviva.  I have seen the application form which  Mr M and Mrs F completed 
and it has the IFAs  name all over it. So from this there is no doubt  that Aviva  didnt sell the 
policy and so it therefore follows that it cant be held responsible for the way in which this 
policy was sold, what information was provided to Mr M and Mrs F at the point of sale or 
what was said to them during this process.
From researching the IFA concerned, it appears it is no longer in business. So while  I can 
appreciate this is frustrating for Mr M and Mrs F this doesnt mean that this Service can 
pursue Aviva  for something it didnt  do. Mr M and Mrs F have been given details about how 
they may be able to pursue a complaint against  the IFA in previous correspondence from the 
Ref: DRN59482302investigator who initially assessed their complaint, so there is little point in me repeating  this 
here.
Overall, therefore, while I understand Mr M and Mrs Fs concerns over what they were  told 
when they were sold the policy, as Aviva didnt sell them the policy  it cant  be held 
responsible for anything  that happened during  the time of the sale. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5948230