K820x#14Complaint
D, a limited company,  has complained that HSB Engineering Insurance Limited (HSB) 
declined a claim it made on its contractors plant  insurance policy.  
D is represented in this complaint by a director, Mr P.
Background
D had hired out a dumper to a building contractor,  but the dumper was stolen from the hirers 
site, so D made a claim on its insurance.  
When Mr P reported the dumper stolen to HSB, they told him they would require a copy  of 
the hire agreement showing the terms and conditions  of hire. Mr P provided a signed hire 
agreement showing  that model  CPA  Conditions  applied  so HSB  initially  agreed  to pay 
the claim.  The claims  handler  thought  this document  showed  D had complied  with the 
special  conditions  in its policy  and made  an offer to D on this basis.  HSB also told D that 
they intended to pursue a recovery direct  from the hirer once the payment was issued.
When  HSB  began  to investigate  recovery  from the hirer,  it transpired  that although  the 
CPA  conditions  were  stated  on the hire agreement,  the hirer hadnt  signed,  nor had they 
ever seen  or accepted  the conditions  of the hire agreement.  HSB  then withdrew  their 
offer to settle  the claim  explaining  to Ds broker  that they didnt have all the facts at the 
time they agreed  to pay the claim. 
They said D hadnt  complied with the requirement  for adherence to the CPA conditions,  
which was a special  condition of the policy. Based  on this information, Ds broker  agreed it 
was in order for HSB to contact Mr P and confirm they were retracting their offer.
HSB originally agreed to pay the claim however they later declined  the claim and withdrew 
their offer. 
HSB explained  the claim was declined on the basis that D hadnt complied with the terms of 
its insurance policy because the hirer hadnt  received  or accepted  the terms of a hire 
agreement from D. 
HSB said a condition  precedent of the insurance  policy was that D could only hire equipment 
to a third party under  written conditions no less onerous than the current standard conditions  
of the Construction  Plant Hire Association (CPA).
Our investigator thought that Ds claim  met the terms  of the policy  and the dumper had been 
hired out under terms that were no less onerous  than the CPA conditions. As such, HSB 
should pay the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. She said:
It was clear there had been a meeting of minds  between D and the hirer about the 
hiring of the dumper.  
The hire agreement in question stated model CPA conditions apply. Copies 
available on request  as required  by the policy. 
There was nothing  within the terms of the insurance policy  or the CPA conditions to 
say a signature was required  from the hirer for the CPA conditions to be applicable.
It wasnt disputed that Mr P signed  the hire agreement on behalf of the hirer but that 
didnt mean the claim hadnt met the special condition in the policy.  
Ref: DRN51921302Although the hirer told HSB that they didnt  sign anything and its not his signature , 
it wasnt clear  who HSB had spoken to and therefore wasnt enough to say D didnt 
hire the dumper out in accordance with the special  conditions.
It was unfair to decline the claim on the basis that the hirer didnt  have insurance  as 
although the CPA conditions hold the hirer liable for any loss or any damage to the 
plant hired, it did not say the hirer was required to have insurance. 
HSB suggested  that Mr P had retrospectively signed the contract to strengthen  his 
claim but as this hadnt been raised  previously with D, it was not information she 
could comment on.
HSB disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. They 
said:
It was clear that no formal contract of hire was in place under CPA conditions or 
otherwise. 
They spoke to a director  of the hirers company who confirmed  in a telephone 
conversation that they never  received, signed, had sight of or accepted any hire 
agreement or CPA conditions of hire. 
Their ability to recover against the hirer directly and/or  any insurance policy he may 
have in place  had been materially  prejudiced as a result  of the hirer not having 
received, signed and agreed to the CPA terms and conditions. 
It is not unfair or unreasonable to rely on a breach of this condition  precedent  to 
reject liability  for this claim. 
They didnt decline the claim on the basis that the hirer didnt  have insurance.  It was 
declined on the basis  of D not being  able to evidence  his agreement  with the hirer 
which  would  have  bound  the hirer to the CPA  conditions.
Mr P admitted he signed  the hire agreement instead of the hirer and Ds broker  
confirmed in writing that Mr P should  not have held his signature  out to be that of the 
hirer.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 June 2020.  I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im minded not to 
uphold the complaint and Ive explained  my reasons below. 
The terms and conditions  of Ds policy  say that its a condition  precedent  of the policy 
that vehicles are hired out under written conditions  which are no less onerous
than the current  standard  conditions of the Construction Plant-hire Association, 
Scottish Plant Owners  Association or Hire Association Europe;  or other  written  
conditions of hire which  HSB have approved. 
A condition  precedent means that the policyholder (in this case  D) is required to do 
something before the insurer has any liability under the policy.  In this case that meant 
that if D didnt hire out the dumper under the written conditions specified, then HSB 
didnt need to pay their claim. 
Ref: DRN51921303The condition  was set out in the policy  summary  and as a condition  precedent  in 
the policy  document.  Its clear and unambiguous and a prominent  part of the policy.  
I have seen no evidence  to show  that the hirer was made  aware  of the CPA  
conditions,  either  verbally  or in writing,  so I cant  say that D has complied  with the 
terms  of the policy.  As a result,  Im satisfied  that HSB  acted  in line with the terms  
of the policy  in declining  the claim.
However, Im also required to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So, while I accept that the condition  is a condition  precedent, Ive also 
thought about whether D not complying this has prejudiced HSB. By that I mean 
whether in not providing a written  agreement D caused HSB a loss they wouldnt 
have had if it had provided a written agreement. 
HSB have explained that if a written agreement had been in place it would have been 
able to attempt  to pursue recovery from the hirer.  As there wasnt a written 
agreement HSB are unlikely to recover their losses, as they cant  show  that the hirer 
agreed to be liable for any losses that occurred while  the dumper was in its 
possession. So, I do think by not providing  a written hire agreement  D has prejudiced 
HSB, as its unlikely  to be able to recover money it would have done if the agreement 
was in place. 
Mr P argued  that, as per his arrangement  with the hirer,  the delivery  was made  
out of hours  and as there  was no one on site to accept  the delivery,  he signed  
the hire agreement  himself.  Mr P said he made  a note on the docket  to say there  
was no one on site and he thinks  the claims  handler  should  have  noticed  this.
Having  seen  a copy  of the hire agreement,  I think  it is obvious  that Mr P signed  it 
himself  and I can see that he did note not on site beside  his signature.  
However,  I dont  think  that this would  have  changed  the outcome  of the claim.  
I think  that if the claims  handler  had noticed  this at an earlier  stage  it is likely  that 
the claim  would  have  been  declined  sooner  without  an offer being  made  to D. 
This is because  HSB  would  have  realised  earlier  that there  was no hire 
agreement  in place  for them  to rely on, thus leaving  them  unable to pursue the 
recovery of their loss from the hirer.
I appreciate  how frustrating  and inconvenient  having the offer withdrawn will have 
been for Mr P and I do think HSB should have  noticed the issue with the signature  on 
the hire agreement sooner. But at that stage, they had no reason to doubt that the 
hirer had a copy of the hire agreement and agreed with the terms. And I dont think  
this makes it unfair for HSB to decline the claim.  
HSB also asked if a previous  hire agreement existed with the hirer which could show  
that they were  aware of the conditions of hire. Mr P was able to show  cash  
transactions between  D and the hirer. However,  he was unable  to produce any 
evidence that the hirer had ever seen the conditions of hire. I think HSB acted fairly 
by giving D this opportunity  before  they withdrew their offer. 
Our investigator  said it was unfair  for HSB to decline  the claim on the basis that the 
hirer didnt have insurance, as although  the CPA conditions hold the hirer liable for 
any loss or any damage to the plant hired, it didnt say the hirer was required to have 
insurance. Im satisfied that HSB didnt decline the claim  on this basis. It was 
declined because  D could  not evidence  that there  was a hire agreement  in place  
which  bound  the hirer to the CPA  conditions.
Ref: DRN51921304It was the responsibility  of D to ensure  a written  hire agreement,  in line with the 
terms  and conditions  of its insurance  policy,  was in place  between  it and the 
hirer.  As there  was no contract  in place,  I think  it was fair and reasonable  in this 
particular  case  for HSB  to decline  Ds claim.
Had the hire agreement been  seen  and accepted by the hirer then HSB could have 
attempted to recover their loss. D has prejudiced HSBs  right to recovery,  so I 
therefore think its reasonable that HSB declined Ds claim. 
I think its fair and reasonable for HSB to decline the claim as there  is no evidence of 
a CPA contract between  the hirer and D. 
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited D and HSB to give me any more evidence and information  they wanted  me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.  HSB accepted my provisional  decision.
D disagreed with my decision, Mr P said in summary: 
The hirer had hired from D in the past and signed the contract, but any copies of a 
signed agreement  had been destroyed due to storage. 
There was evidence  that the hirer had made a bank transfer to D to pay for the hire 
of the dumper. Mr P thought payment automatically  meant  the hirer agreed  to the 
conditions of the hire.
Most  small  contractors dont read the small print. They  just sign and start working.
The delivery took place at the weekend due to the distance  involved. This was 
agreed with the hirer who wasnt going to be on site, so Mr P signed the agreement 
at the time of delivery  as he considered  himself  to be the hirers agent.
The hirer could have checked Ds website  at any time and seen  the CPA conditions.
There was evidence  that a theft had taken place and the hirer had contacted the 
police.
Mr P thinks HSB would have checked  the share capital of the hirers limited  company 
before declining to pay their offer.
Ref: DRN51921305What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision.
For the most  part, Mr P hasnt provided  any information that Id not already considered 
before I issued my provisional findings.  
However, I will address his comment about  the share capital of the hirers limited  company, 
as this was not previously  raised.  
HSB have said that the first time they were made aware of the share capital  of the hirers 
limited company was when Mr P raised it in response to my provisional findings. They told 
us this had no bearing on their decision  to reject the claim.
This is not something  I would expect HSB to consider as part of the claims process.  And 
having reviewed  HSBs files relating to this claim,  I can see no evidence  to show  that this 
was a consideration in rejecting the claim. 
As such none of the comments Mr P made have changed my mind.  
I've carefully considered all the information that's been provided, and I understand why Mr P 
feels strongly about what's happened. I realise  this won't be the outcome he was hoping for, 
but I don't think HSB have treated D unfairly  in declining the claim. So, I won't  be asking 
them to do anything further.
My final decision  
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf  of 
D, to accept or reject my decision before 12 September  2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5192130