K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains Family PEP Managers  Limited (FPM) mis-sold  him a Personal Equity Plan 
(PEP) investment in 1997.  Mr C is represented  by a claims management company, but Ill 
just refer to him throughout.
background
Mr C met with FPM in early 1997 about his savings and investments. It recommended  he 
invest £30 a month into its Managed Fund,  held within a PEP. He made the first payment, 
and then increased his monthly contribution to £100.  He paid into the PEP for two years.  
After that PEPs were phased out and replaced by ISAs. Mr C took out an ISA (not on FPMs 
advice) and paid into that for a further ten years.
In 2018, Mr C complained  about FPMs advice to invest in the PEP.  In summary he said:
He didnt have  time to fully consider the recommendation before agreeing to it.
FPM didnt  document his financial position, and he shouldnt  have been sold this sort 
of investment with no previous investment experience.
FPM didnt  ask about his income  and expenditure, and the monthly invested amount 
wasnt affordable for him.
FPM didnt  assess his attitude to risk and the fund was too risky.
The investment  was supposed to be used to repay his mortgage, but the advisor  
should have talked about changing to a repayment mortgage instead.
One of our adjudicators looked  into things.  She didnt think FPMs advice had been  suitable. 
She had concerns about the affordability of the investment, and thought the fund Mr C 
invested in exposed him to more risk than he was in a position  to accept. She recommended  
FPM compensate Mr C by comparing the performance of his PEP to a benchmark.
Mr C agreed with our adjudicator, but FPM  didnt and it asked for an ombudsman to decide 
the matter. It said Mr Cs increase in contributions  showed he could afford the investment. 
And it thought the fact that, within a few years  of taking out the PEP, Mr C invested in a 
stocks and shares ISA without advice showed  he was willing to take a risk with his 
investment.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I didnt think this complaint should be upheld. I 
said:
I think this case is finely balanced.  But overall Im not persuaded FPMs advice was 
unsuitable for Mr C. So Im not intending  to ask it to pay him any compensation.
The fact find shows Mr C met with FPMs adviser  twice  about  a fortnight apart  
before he agreed  to the recommendation. So I think he had plenty of time to consider 
what FPM  were  advising him to do.
It was recorded  that Mr C was 40, with two dependent children and an income  of about 
£15,000. There isnt anything on the fact find about  his outgoings and theres no record 
he had any other savings or investments,  other than a pension. Mr C had a pension 
mortgage due to end when he was 60 and he intended to retire  at 65. His investment 
priorities were given  as building  up capital for the future and saving for his children. 
Ref: DRN57525392I dont think that putting  some money  into an investment (within  a PEP)  was an 
inherently unsuitable thing for Mr C to have done. He had provision to repay  his 
mortgage, and this plan gave him flexibility to free up his pension if he wanted to, or 
use it for other  needs or wants  if he preferred.   
Like our adjudicator, I think this case really  boils down  to the affordability and risk of 
the investment  plan FPM recommended.
Mr Cs recorded income  was modest,  and FPM doesnt appear to have asked about 
his outgoings.  But I think its likely  a discussion  about affordability took place. I say this 
as FPM  initially  said Mr C should invest £50 a month, and this reduced to £30 by the 
time of their second  meeting  and when FPM produced  an illustration. 
Im also mindful that from the second month of paying into the plan Mr C increased his 
contribution to £100. He carried on paying into this PEP (and then his ISA) at that rate 
for a decade. Im not persuaded  hed have done so had the original recommendation 
to invest £30 a month  been unaffordable.
Mr C says the Managed  Fund was too risky for him. The fund itself invested in a range 
of other  funds, and its overall exposure at the time was largely to equities  (mostly UK 
and European) with a small fixed income  element.
As Ive noted, there isnt a record  of Mr Cs attitude to risk at the time. But it seems 
likely hed not invested before. Where evidence is incomplete as it is here I must make  
my decision  based  on what I think, on balance, is more likely than not to have been the 
case.
The Managed Fund  had a fairly  heavy  equity weighting  for a first time investor. But Ive 
given weight to the objectives and time horizon  over which Mr C was looking to invest,  
as well as the sum he was investing. He wanted  his money to grow and had plenty of 
time to allow  it to do so. Hed said this was an investment he was willing  to make  over 
at least 10 years and, were he to use it to help pay his mortgage,  he had 20 years until 
that was due. 
Over this kind of timescale I dont think it was unsuitable to recommend the fund FPM 
did. Given he had a long term plan for his money, too cautious an approach may have 
increased the risks of his capital not meeting his growth objectives  or eroding his 
moneys value against  inflation. 
Ive also looked  at what we know about Mr Cs other investment decisions around that 
time. When PEPs where phased out a few years  after he invested, Mr C put the same 
monthly amount  into an ISA instead.  He did this without  advice,  and chose a stocks 
and shares ISA (although Im not aware of the specific  investment choices he made 
within it).
While I acknowledge this was two years after FPMs advice, it is the most  
contemporaneous evidence I have of Mr Cs risk appetite.  And it shows he was willing 
to put £100 a month into stock market  linked investments, and continued  to do so for a 
long time.
Taking all this into account I think FPMs advice  to invest £30 a month into the 
Managed Fund was suitable for Mr C. It gave him the opportunity  to grow  his money 
Ref: DRN57525393over the medium to long term, in an investment  which  exposed  him to a level of risk 
Im persuaded that, on balance, he was willing and able to accept.
It follows that I dont intend  to recommend  FPM  pay Mr C any compensation.
FPM agreed with my provisional decision and didnt add anything. Mr C and his 
representatives didnt  reply within the timescale provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason  to depart 
from my provisional conclusions. I therefore  make the same findings here as in my 
provisional decision, and make  them  final.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019. 
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5752539