K820x#14Complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) didnt do enough when he fell victim to a banking 
scam. He feels BOS could have  done  more to prevent the payment going through and to 
recover the money from the bank used by the scammer.
Background
On 21 December 2018 Mr P made a payment of £360 to pay for goods he wanted  to buy via 
an online  shopping site. The seller  had told him they couldnt take payments using the 
method recommended  by the shopping  site, so Mr P made the payment via bank transfer.
When Mr P didnt  receive any goods  from the seller, and couldnt get back in touch  with 
them, he realised that hed made  the payment to a scammer. Mr P contacted  BOS  on 
24 December 2018 to explain what had happened and to see what  it could do to help. BOS 
contacted the scammers bank that same day to see if any of Mr Ps money could be 
retrieved and told Mr P theyd update him within 20 days. 
When Mr P didnt  hear from BOS by 14 January 2018, he got in touch to find out what  was 
happening. BOS  confirmed it was still waiting for a response from the beneficiary  bank.  On 
17 January 2019  the beneficiary bank  confirmed to BOS that none of Mr Ps money 
remained in the beneficiary account.  BOS immediately informed Mr P. 
BOS acknowledged  there were delays in updating Mr P about what was happening with his 
scam claim. BOS paid him £50 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hed 
suffered and £7 to cover  the cost of his additional calls. But it refused to reimburse him for 
the money he lost to the scammer.  
Mr P was unhappy with how BOS  handled things, so he complained  to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
They believed BOS  had done all it reasonably could to try and help. He also felt that what 
BOS had paid in compensation was appropriate,  and that it didnt need to do any more.
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicator. He felt the payment he made should have been flagged  
as high risk by BOS,  and that it hadnt  done enough  to try and recover the money hed lost.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN59528102But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like BOS are also required to conduct their business with due skill, care 
and diligence  (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers (Principle 6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether BOS acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mr P when he transferred  £360, or whether  it should have done more  than it did.
Im very sorry to see that Mr P lost this money. But, having looked at the circumstances, I do 
think BOS acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer  to leave Mr Ps account.  And I 
think it took appropriate steps to try and recover funds from the beneficiary bank. So, I dont  
believe it needs to reimburse Mr P for the money he lost. Ill explain why.
Mr Ps accepted that he authorised the transfer himself. Because of this, BOS  had an 
obligation to follow his instruction. But there  are some situations in which  it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully.  In doing so, Ive looked at some  previous statements for the 
account, and I dont think the type of payment, or the amount paid, was particularly unusual 
or suspicious in comparison to the normal activity  on Mr Ps account. From what  Ive seen, 
there isnt anything remarkable about  the payment in terms of either its value or the payment 
Ref: DRN59528103type. So, I dont  think BOS did anything wrong  in not treating this payment as suspicious in 
the circumstances.
When Mr P told BOS  hed been  scammed, it contacted  the scammers bank the same day to 
see if any of Mr Ps money was still in the receiving account  and could be retrieved. 
Unfortunately, the receiving bank cant provide the exact times funds were  removed  from the 
scammers account. However, I cant fairly conclude that it would have made  a difference  
even if BOS had acted sooner. Thats because the payment was made three days  before 
Mr P contacted BOS  and, often with these types  of scams, the funds are removed quickly.  
In this case, while I appreciate Mr Ps been  the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think BOS 
decision not to refund him in this instance  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
say this because  it followed Mr Ps instruction to make the transfer and I havent seen any 
reason why it shouldnt  have  done this. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and 
recover the funds  once it was notified  of the scam.
That said,  I acknowledge that BOS could have done more to keep Mr P updated  while it was 
waiting for the beneficiary banks response. But I think  the £57 in total BOS  has already paid 
to Mr P for thats appropriate in the circumstances. I dont think BOS  needs to pay him any 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5952810