K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2002. Mr S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr S says he was led to believe 
he had to take the PPI in order to get the mortgage,  but he hasnt given us much detail on 
what was said or what made  him think this. And Santander hasnt been  able to send us any 
evidence from the sale showing  Mr S chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that 
has passed since the sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But none  of the paperwork I have seen  from the sale suggests the PPI is mandatory  or will 
affect the mortgage application. And, because of the limited information available,  I dont 
think theres enough evidence here for me to say that Santander made  Mr S think  he had to 
have the PPI. So I think its more likely Santander  made it clear to Mr S that he had a choice 
about the PPI, and that Mr S chose  to take it knowing  he didnt have to.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it had to check that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, he doesnt  appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than he wouldve been entitled  to 
sick pay.
Mr S has also mentioned that he already  had life insurance and had rental income  he 
couldve used to make  his repayments,  so he didnt need the PPI. But, from what  hes said,  
he didnt have the rental income at the time of the sale and it wouldnt have been enough to 
replace his salary  in the time after the sale. And life insurance covers  different risks to PPI. 
So I still think the PPI was right for him at the time.
As well as checking it was right for him, Santander had to give Mr S clear  information about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But a 
mortgage is a serious  financial  commitment, and Mr Ss property couldve ben at risk if hed 
failed to make his repayments. So I think he couldve found the protection he policy  offered 
appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would 
have been useful for Mr S if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr S off taking it out.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN53077732But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr S the extra he paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5307773