K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ps complaint concerns advice she received on two investment bonds  from a registered 
individual (RI) of Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited  from mid-2007 onwards.
background
Ive issued two provisional decisions on Mrs Ps complaint. An excerpt from the second  of 
these is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In that second  provisional decision I set out my thinking on what I saw as the five main 
issues encompassed by the complaint. In brief;
the Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander  (KSF) recommendations  I was of the view 
that too much of Mrs Ps money  had been committed to deposit with the bank, given 
the financial climate  at the time;  
investment funds  I thought the recommendations  made  to Mrs P to switch back  into 
equity funds in 2008 carried a greater  degree  of risk than she wouldve wanted to 
take or understood; 
transparency  on this point I thought Positive Solutions had acted reasonably.  I 
noted that Mrs P shouldve received  statements from the bond provider and if she 
hadnt, she or a representative couldve asked for them directly. I also noted 
documentation that showed  the adviser giving  information to Mrs P and her 
representatives concerning withdrawals and distributions as far back as 2012;
the mortgage  I wasnt persuaded that it had been Mrs Ps absolute intention from 
the outset to pay off her mortgage  in 2008. So I didnt think  that her being unable  to 
access the KSF deposits wouldve  led to a loss in this respect;
trouble and upset   I felt Positive  Solutions  should pay Mrs P £400 to reflect  the 
distress she experienced relating to the lack of access to her money, as the issue 
came at a very difficult time for her and during the course of serious health problems.
Mrs P responded to say; 
She hadnt placed any great  emphasis on the mortgage issue when  the complaint 
was first brought  as she hadnt recognised the importance and cost.  It was only as a 
result of the adjudicators prompting  that shed looked at it in more detail. 
She couldnt have  used  the money being  returned from KSF to pay off the mortgage 
sooner because it was needed  to pay back the adviser  money hed lent her in a 
personal capacity.
Mrs Ps representative provided a copy of a handwritten note from Mrs Ps previous 
accountant that indicated repayment of the mortgage had been  discussed and was an 
intention in late 2007. Mrs Ps representative also added, in brief;
Mrs P had been too ill to keep a close eye on matters and be aware  of the lack of 
information. Shed been wholly reliant upon the adviser. 
Shed  understood that the money she was receiving from the adviser  was in lieu of 
income that couldnt be paid while the KSF deposits were frozen. She hadnt realised 
it was in fact a return of the capital intended to pay off the mortgage. 
Positive Solution responded to my second  provisional decision to say, in brief;  
Ref: DRN54045882It was pleased Id provided a balanced  view in respect of the mortgage issue.
It didnt feel it could  be held responsible  for the equity recommendations as it had not 
been responsible for the advice  to start the bonds. 
Moving the investment into cash had effectively de-risked the investment, which  was 
appropriate as it was good practice  to have a cash element  to a portfolio.  And the 
switch back to domestic and international equity  exposure in 2008  was also suitable  
given the market at the time and the fact that Mrs P was an investor  whod had her 
own stockbroker and other wealth/financial interests. 
Id based my decision in respect  of the KSF deposits on too much  money  having  
been placed with the bank, as opposed  to the move into cash  itself being  unsuitable. 
As such,  any redress should be based upon  a comparison with what Mrs Ps position  
wouldve been if a smaller amount had been committed to KSF.
The money already  paid back  from KSF,  and any future distribution should  be taken 
into account. 
The adviser had carried  out proper due diligence in respect of KSF and had also 
provided a great deal of general information to Mrs P and her representatives over 
the years, all without  charge.    
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the further 
submissions, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I remain broadly of the view reached in the attached  second  provisional 
decision. I still think the complaint should be upheld and compensation paid to Mrs P. 
That said,  I will expand  upon my previous comments in light of whats been said by both 
parties in response  to my second  provisional decision. 
the KSF recommendations
As Ive said previously, I acknowledge the points  made by Positive  Solutions  and the adviser 
in respect of the KSF deposits. Clearly many parties were recommending the bank at the 
time in question and many investors sought to take advantage of the very high returns  
available. But I nevertheless still think that advising Mrs P to commit £330,000 to a single 
institution given  the financial conditions in early 2008, when there were clear  rumblings of 
uncertainty, was unsuitable. 
I take the point  about whether it follows from my reasoning that redress  in relation to this 
should in fact be based upon Mrs P having committed a lesser amount, rather  than, as Ive 
suggested, a comparison with a no-risk benchmark  for the whole amount. 
But I think there would be too much  uncertainty involved  in trying to recreate in that sort of 
detail what Mrs P might otherwise have done if circumstances had been different. For 
instance, Im not looking at the KSF in isolation, but in the context  of Mrs Ps circumstances 
as a whole  and whether her levels and type of equity investment might  also have been 
different. As such, I think any figure I might settle  upon would be entirely arbitrary. So its 
fairer, on balance, to avoid specifying a figure.      
investment funds
This is the area that I see as being  most finely balanced. In respect of whether Positive 
Solutions is responsible  for the advice  provided I think its clear  that while the adviser  was 
Ref: DRN54045883representing a different  business at the time the bonds themselves were recommended,  
there were nevertheless  fund switches advised  later, in 2008, and its these that I consider to 
have carried too much risk. 
I accept that Mrs P was clearly very reliant upon  this money  for income  and needed it to 
produce as much as reasonably possible. But that still had to be within the parameters  of a 
level of risk that she understood and was happy  with, particularly given her health situation 
at the time. And looking at the recommendations made I dont think this was the case.  For 
instance, in May 2008 Mrs P was recommended to switch  into medium risk funds while she 
was in hospital.
To be clear, Im not saying that Mrs P shouldnt have been  provided with advice at all while  
she was ill, or that there wasnt room within her portfolio  for some higher risk investment. 
But, in the circumstances, I think on balance that adopting a more cautious approach 
wouldve been more  suitable at that time 
the mortgage
I remain of the view that theres insufficient  evidence to support a finding that Mrs P would 
more likely than not have paid off the mortgage  if shed been able to access  the KSF money. 
I acknowledge the note provided by Mrs Ps representative and it does appear that in late 
2007 some  consideration was being given to the possibility of repaying  the mortgage.  But, 
particularly in light of the lack of any other  documentation supporting this intention, I still 
dont think I can reasonably conclude that the mortgage would definitely have been repaid in 
2008, or at any other time prior to Mrs P selling the property. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs P as close to the position she wouldve been in had she not been  
provided with unsuitable  advice by Positive  Solutions from mid-2007.
investment funds
In respect of any investment (as opposed to the cash deposits) recommendations  fund 
switches  made from the point  at which Positive Solutions became responsible for advising 
her, Mrs P should  be put in the position  she wouldve been had she otherwise  invested for a 
broadly cautious  return, as follows:
50% for a return matching the average return from fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England on its website over the same  
period of time
50% in line with the average return from the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income  total 
return index
All withdrawals taken can be deducted as and when they were taken from the bonds. 
Positive Solutions should ensure that any potential exit penalties  applied to regular 
withdrawals (as well as any ad hoc withdrawals) should be accounted  for in the calculation.
To any loss calculated up to the time of surrender should be added interest at 8% simple  per 
annum gross  from the date of surrender until the date redress is paid.
Ref: DRN54045884the KSF recommendations
In respect of the cash fund element of the bonds invested with KSF, Positive  Solutions  
should put Mrs P in the position she wouldve  been in had she otherwise invested for a 
return matching the average return from fixed-rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity, as 
published by the Bank  of England on its website over the same period of time.
Withdrawals from the bonds  and deferred payments relating to KSF should be taken account 
of in the calculation, as and when they were  received. 
To any loss calculated up to the time of surrender should be added interest at
8% simple  per annum gross from the date of surrender  until the date redress is paid.
If any payments are distributed in relation to the KSF deposits later, Positive  Solutions  will be 
entitled to those funds, as Mrs P will already have been compensated. Positive  Solutions 
may therefore request that Mrs P provides an undertaking  that shell transfer any future KSF-
related payments to it. Positive Solutions  must pay any reasonable costs associated with 
any such undertaking.
trouble and upset
Finally, Positive Solutions should also make a payment of £400 to Mrs P in respect of the 
distress caused by the problems relating to the lack of access  to her money,  coming as they 
did following a very difficult  time for her and during  the course of personal health  problems.    
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Positive 
Solutions (Financial  Services) Limited to pay compensation to Mrs P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN54045885EXCERPT OF SECOND PROVISIONAL  DECISION
background
To recap  briefly, in 2006 Mrs P had some  money available  that she wanted to invest, primarily  to 
generate an income. The adviser, who at that time was a representative of a different business  
(against which a separate complaint has been considered), recommended she start two investment 
bonds  one intended to be a cash  bond with easy access, the other to hold investments  for the 
longer term. A total of £550,000 was split £250,000  and £300,000  respectively between the bonds. 
Since it was initially raised in 2017, Mrs Ps complaint has encompassed several  issues  including a 
lack of transparency (a failure  by the adviser  to keep her informed of what was going on and how her 
investments were performing) and the suitability  of the investment recommendations. 
But I think its fair to say the focus now is upon recommendations  made by the adviser in 2008  in 
particular in May of that year  to place £190,000 from the cash bond and £140,000 from the 
investment bond into deposit accounts with the Icelandic bank Kaupthing,  Singer and Friedlander 
(KSF).
KSF went into administration soon after, in October 2008, resulting in Mrs P losing access  to this 
£330,000. The money has since been returned  by way of a series  of distributions, ongoing since 
2009. But the crux of the matter is that the loss of access in 2008 caused Mrs P financial difficulties 
both at the time and for some years  after.  And, in particular  as highlighted in the responses to my 
initial provisional decision  Mrs P has said she was unable to repay an outstanding mortgage of 
£250,000, which she ultimately had to maintain until last year when she sold the mortgaged property. 
As a result, she says shes paid substantial additional interest and arrangement fees since 2008, 
amounting to just over £100,000. 
In my initial provisional decision I explained that I felt the complaint should  be upheld  in part  in 
respect of the KSF recommendation and also any other investment advice given while  the adviser 
was a representative of Positive Solutions. In brief, I felt too much was committed  to KSF; particularly 
at a time when there  shouldve been a reasonable awareness of problems  developing  within the 
banking industry. I also felt that the fund recommendations made to Mrs P were  too reliant upon 
equity performance and most  likely inconsistent with her attitude to risk. 
Regarding the mortgage  I noted that Id seen no documentation relating to advice  on it post-2006. But 
in any event, as noted, Mrs P maintained the mortgage until September of last year.  I felt she 
wouldve been  able to pay it off from other funds if that had been her aim  certainly  from 2014 
onwards when the KSF repayments had been received, but possibly earlier  than this with the other 
money that was invested. As such, I didnt think I could  reasonably hold Positive  Solutions 
responsible for the mortgage  not being  paid off.
Positive Solutions didnt think  the complaint  should be upheld at all, arguing  that I was looking at the 
KSF situation with the benefit  of hindsight. It pointed  out that numerous  institutions,  organisations  and 
investors had committed billions of pounds  to KSF as in May 2008 thered  been no reason to suspect 
it would fail. 
It said Mrs P had been provided with information  about her investments  and had always pushed for a 
high rate of return to boost her income. It highlighted  that the adviser had made payments  to her on a 
personal basis to replace  income lost from the inaccessible KSF money. It also suggested, as Id 
done, that repayment of the mortgage couldve  been  made earlier as distributions  from KSF were 
received over the years.   
Mrs P and her representatives responses to the initial provisional decision,  as noted, focussed on the 
mortgage issue  and Mrs Ps inability to pay the borrowing off as a consequence of the advisers 
actions. 
Ref: DRN54045886On the issue of transparency they said that money was invested on which no return  was received.  
And Mrs P was never in a position to know she was receiving capital  rather than income, having 
never had valuations/statements from the adviser  or bond provider.
Mrs P also raised  the issue  of compensation for the trouble and upset the matter had caused her. 
my further  provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, including the further submissions,  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint. Ill give my current thinking on each 
of the various issues in turn. 
the KSF recommendations
I remain of the view that the adviser recommended too much of Mrs Ps money  be committed  to KSF.  
I note Positive Solutions comments about  the use of hindsight and I acknowledge that it couldnt be 
known with any certainty what would happen in 2008. But, as I explained in my initial provisional  
decision, I nevertheless think there  were  sufficient  indicators of potential  problems by May 2008 that 
committing such a large amount to a single  deposit taker wasnt  appropriate.
investment funds
I think  the position  here is a little less clear. Positive Solutions has highlighted that the advice to start 
the bonds  and the initial fund selections took place prior to the adviser becoming  its representative. 
That is correct and, as noted, matters  relating  to that have been dealt with separately. But there were  
still a number of fund switches recommended  in 2008, for which Positive Solution does have 
responsibility. 
And as I explained in my initial  provisional decision, many of these were highly  reliant upon equity 
performance, including international equities. While  Mrs P was clearly looking to maintain quite a high 
level of income from the investments, Im still not persuaded she wouldve wanted to expose her 
capital to the level of risk associated with the funds in question. She had no real investment  
experience prior to the 2006 advice, bar inheriting a small portfolio  of shares, which I understand  was 
sold soon after.
transparency
The issue of Mrs P not receiving statements, or any other information  about  the investments  
meaning she wasnt  aware to what degree the monthly income payments might be a return of capital 
rather actual growth  was very much the original focus of the complaint.  
Mrs Ps representatives  have raised  this again  in response to my initial provisional decision. For 
clarity, I dont  think this is something for which Positive Solutions can be held responsible. Mrs P 
should have received statements from the bond provider  and if she didnt, Ive not seen  that she 
wouldve been  prevented  from asking for them directly. 
Ive also seen  quite a lot of documentation that shows the adviser  giving information to Mrs P and her 
representatives, obtained  from the bond  provider,  concerning withdrawals and distributions as far 
back as 2012. And further, it seems Mrs Ps representative  was in a position to be able to reconcile  all 
the payments taken from the bonds by late 2014.
Ref: DRN54045887the mortgage
I think  its fair to say that this is the key issue now. Mrs P and her representatives have said that as a 
consequence of not being able to repay her mortgage  in 2008  when  it came to the end of a two year 
fix during which early  repayment penalties wouldve applied  Mrs P has incurred  many more years 
of interest payments and arrangement fees than she would otherwise have done.  
Ive reconsidered all the evidence  in light of this now very specific assertion  (I think its worth noting 
that the issue  of the mortgage didnt form part of the initial complaints made  by 
Mrs Ps representative   they focussed very much on the lack of transparency).  
In 2006 Mrs P had an existing mortgage of £250,000 on her residential property.  She remortgaged in 
around May 2006; an application that was handled by the investment adviser.  This remortgage 
involved a two year fixed rate, so it couldnt be redeemed without penalty until the middle  of 2008. 
Mrs P has said that she intended to redeem the mortgage once it became  free of penalties. But by the 
time it was, the funds that wouldve been used to redeem it were frozen with KSF.  
Ive looked again at the documentation relating to the original recommendation in 2006. Neither the 
fact find nor suitability letter give any indication  that Mrs P was intending to use the cash part of the 
£550,000 to redeem the mortgage after two years, in 2008. The suitability letter said;  You  would  like 
£250,000 of the total amount to be on the best cash deposit rate and to be readily accessible,  as you 
may need to withdraw  up to this amount to fund a further property  purchase in London.
I appreciate Mrs Ps plans may have changed by 2008.  But by this time she had taken around 
£18,000 income  from the £250,000  and also one significant withdrawal of around £50,000 in July 
2007. As such, it seems there wouldnt have been sufficient available in the cash bond to pay off the 
mortgage in 2008 in any event. 
And Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mrs P raised  her inability to pay off the mortgage as an issue 
around that time. And further, as I noted in my previous provisional  decision, as each regular 
remortgage occurred from 2011 onwards none of the KSF money  that wouldve been received  back 
by that point was used  to reduce the mortgage balance. Indeed, it appears that by 2017 the balance 
had increased to almost  £300,000.
All this being  so, I dont think I can reasonably conclude  that in the event that Mrs P hadnt been 
restricted by the KSF issue  in 2008 she would  more likely than not have paid off the mortgage and not 
incurred the ongoing  interest payment and arrangement fees. So, as things stand, I remain  of the 
view that I cant hold Positive Solutions responsible  for any of those  costs.
trouble and upset
I made no recommendation in this respect in my initial provisional decision. However, Ive noted 
Mrs Ps comments about  how distressing  she found the problems relating to the lack of access to her 
money, coming as they did following a very difficult time for her and during the course of personal 
health problems. As such, on reflection, I think it would be reasonable for Positive Solution to make a 
payment of £400 to her in this respect.  
Ref: DRN5404588