K820x#14complaint
Mr P says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  on a credit  card.
background
Mr P bought the policy in 1998,  at the same time as applying for a credit  card through a 
postal application.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think RBS made it clear that Mr P didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it 
out. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ps application from 1998 and he had to actively  tick to take out 
PPI. 
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. I say 
this because Mr P applied for the credit  card and PPI through  a postal application.  I havent  
seen anything to suggest that RBS assessed  Mr Ps individual  circumstances  such as his 
employee benefits, other insurances and ability to meet his repayments if he was unable  to 
work and from this provided  a tailored recommendation for PPI.
Mr P has concerns that the application  form stated We strongly recommend you take out 
this cover.  For cover just tick this box. Mr P says that this was his first credit  card and he 
was financially naive  and he took this statement at face value without fully understanding 
PPI. So Mr P says he ticked the box but didnt need PPI as he was living  with his parents 
and had no dependents or outstanding debts. He says had he understood what  PPI was he 
wouldnt have ticked the box.
As I explained earlier, RBS didnt formally assess Mr Ps circumstances. While I understand 
Mr Ps concerns, having looked at the statement I consider that RBS was making more of a 
general statement, encouraging consumers to consider whether or not they could meet their 
repayments if they died, were  unable to work through  an accident or sickness  or if they lost 
their job. Its quite possible that Mr P thought that protecting his repayments,  if he was 
unable to work, was important and ticked to take out the cover  as it was something that he 
thought could have been of use to him at the time.  
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But Im satisfied that Mr P chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he 
Ref: DRN54000712was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr P received limited  sick pay if he was unable to work because of an accident or sickness. 
In the event of a successful claim the PPI would have covered  10% of the outstanding credit  
card balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr P was off work because of an accident  or 
sickness, or if he became  unemployed.  The policy also included life cover.  So I think  it 
provided a useful benefit, especially if Mr P was off work for a lengthy period.
Mr P says he was living with his parents and they would have helped him meet his 
repayments if he struggled. Mr P also said he had some savings, had no dependents  or 
outstanding debts and didnt need the PPI. 
I appreciate Mr P says family would have  been able to help him meet the repayments if he 
wasnt able to. I dont  doubt that they would have  wanted to help Mr P. But their own 
circumstances may have changed and they might  not have been  able to help when he 
needed it. And while Mr P held some savings, insurance is there to protect against the 
unexpected. Having the PPI meant  that he wouldnt have had to use his savings and they 
could be kept intact for their original purpose.  
Overall, I think the PPI would have  been useful for Mr P if something went wrong.  And I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
All things  considered, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means RBS doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mr P, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - including what he has said about the sale of 
the PPI and his circumstances  at the time. But, for the reasons above, these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
issued a cheque  to Mr P, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Ref: DRN54000713Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5400071