K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that:
-he shouldnt have  been given his mortgage  in 2005. Mr B thinks he only got the 
mortgage because  Landmark Mortgage Limiteds predecessor relied upon an inflated 
valuation of his property at the time;  
-his mortgage  was transferred to Landmark  Mortgages Limited without his permission;
-when the Bank  of England base  rate (BoE  base  rate) fell in 2016,  it was unfair that 
Landmark Mortgages Limited  didnt pass on this rate reduction to its customers  on its 
Standard Variable  Rate (SVR) quickly enough;  and
-Landmark isnt offering  any new interest  rate products and Mr B says hes a 
mortgage rate prisoner,  trapped  with his lender, and having to pay more interest as 
a result.
Mr B wants  Landmark to lower its SVR and he wants compensation for the mortgage  being 
given to him on an overvalued property when it was taken out in 2005.
background
Mr B re-mortgaged with Northern Rock in May 2005  having received advice from a mortgage  
broker. Mr B took out a mortgage of around £110,000 on a capital repayment basis  over 23 
years. At the same time Mr B borrowed a further £30,000 on an unsecured  basis  as a 
Together Loan to consolidate  other  debts. The mortgage was on a fixed  rate of 6.19% for 
the first five years.
At some point in the mortgage term Mr Bs mortgage transferred to NRAM. Later, in 
July 2016, the mortgage  was transferred again  to Landmark. I will refer to Mr Bs lender as 
Landmark throughout although I note the changes to the lender during the loan term.
Mr B is unhappy that during 2016  the BoE base rate fell by 0.25%. Landmark  chose not to 
pass this reduction on to its SVR until months  later in November 2016. Mr B was also 
unhappy about the change to his lender and the valuation when he took out the mortgage. 
Mr B complained to Landmark about  the transfer of his mortgage and the SVR on 
16 August 2016  and Landmark gave its final response to these concerns on 26 August 
2016. It thought  the transfer  of Mr Bs mortgage in 2016 had been  in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of his mortgage.  And it said it didnt have to pass  changes  in the BoE 
base rate on to its SVR.  It said the SVR was a managed interest  rate and it was able to 
review it and make a commercial decision about  whether or not the rate should be changed  
dependent on prevailing market conditions.
Mr B disagreed and brought his complaint to us. Since Mr Bs complaint  has been with us 
hes also complained  to Landmark  about  its decision not to offer new products and that hes 
a mortgage rate prisoner. Mr B blames  Landmark for his current situation - in particular the 
valuation it used in 2005 when its predecessor  gave him his mortgage. Landmark gave its 
final response on these  issues  on 18 September 2018. It didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint  
about these new points.
Landmark wouldnt give its consent for us to look at the part of Mr Bs complaint about  the 
valuation completed  when the mortgage  was sold in 2005. It said this had been brought to 
us out of time. Our investigator looked  into the matter and agreed that Mr B had made his 
complaint about  the valuation ascribed to his property in 2005 out of time. Mr B accepted 
Ref: DRN59459512that and said this wasnt at the heart  of his complaint. Hes said that his main  complaint is 
that hasnt had access to a fair rate of interest  on his mortgage,  especially after seeing  
recent media  coverage about other consumers in a similar position to him.
Our investigator looked at the remaining parts of Mr Bs complaint. He said an adjudicator 
had already given her view on the transfer  of the mortgage so he wouldnt look at that matter  
again. And he thought the complaint about the valuation had been made out of time. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the other parts of the complaint. He was satisfied that Landmark 
had acted fairly in choosing  not to pass on movements in the Bank of England base  rate to 
its customers on SVR mortgages  and that Landmark  wasnt obliged to offer new interest rate 
products to Mr B. He thought Mr B could move his mortgage elsewhere if he felt his 
mortgage no longer  offered good value for money.
Mr B asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint again and make a final decision on the 
matter.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 28 March 2019. I set out why we couldnt look at the part 
of Mr Bs complaint about the valuation of his property in 2005. In summary, I thought Mr Bs 
complaint had been brought  more than six years after the event  being  complained  of, and 
more than three years since Mr B ought reasonably have known he had a cause to complain 
about this issue.  I also didnt think exceptional circumstances prevented  Mr B from making 
this complaint to his lender or us sooner. 
My provisional decision also looked at the parts of the complaint we could consider. It said:
transfer of the mortgage
Mr Bs complained that his previous loan owner transferred his mortgage to Landmark  
without his consent. Mr B originally took out his mortgage with the former  Northern Rock.  
When Northern Rock  collapsed, his mortgage was moved to the government-owned  vehicle  
which took it over, and it has since been sold on to Landmark. I can see why Mr B is 
unhappy about the lack of control hes had over what  has happened to his mortgage 
borrowing as a result  of their mortgage account  passing between lenders like this. I also take 
his point that other Northern Rock loans were  sold to lenders who have since offered them 
new interest rate products  and further  borrowing. Im aware that Mr B wasnt  given the 
opportunity to choose who his mortgage  was sold to.
Ive looked at terms and conditions of Mr Bs mortgage and Im satisfied that Landmark and 
the previous loan owners were acting  within the terms and conditions of Mr Bs mortgage  
when the loan was transferred. Its also true that Mr Bs permission  wasnt needed before his 
mortgage loan could be transferred between lenders. I note what  Landmark has said about 
the terms of Mr Bs mortgage being  unchanged  as a result  of the transfer.
Ive also thought about mortgage regulation and whether the regulator  accepts such 
transfers of regulated mortgage loans. The Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) allows the 
transfer of mortgage  borrowing from one lender to another under certain conditions. 
Landmark is a regulated  lender in its own right,  and the transfer (or sale) of a regulated 
mortgage contract from one regulated lender to another is permitted under the FCAs rules.
Ref: DRN59459513Overall I dont think Landmark acted unreasonably in transferring the ownership of Mr Bs 
mortgage loan without his prior consent.
did Landmark act unfairly  when  it didnt  pass on a reduction in Bank  of England  base rate to 
Mr Bs mortgage in 2016?
Ive looked at Mr Bs mortgage offer to see how Northern Rock set out what  interest rate 
would apply to the mortgage once the initial fixed rate expired. Ive also looked  at under what 
circumstances it said this rate of interest  could be or would be varied. 
After Mr Bs five year fixed  rate of 6.19% expired, the mortgage offer said that the mortgage 
will revert  to Northern Rocks SVR for the remaining term of the mortgage. I dont consider 
that the mortgage offer said or implied  that the SVR would track  the Bank of England base 
rate. 
Ive also carefully looked  at Northern Rocks  Mortgage Offer General Conditions (Edition 2 
11/2004) to see what the terms  and conditions said about the way the lender said to would 
set its variable rates. In section 7 of the terms and conditions (Changing  the interest rate) it 
says it may reduce the Standard Variable Rate at any time. 
There isnt a requirement to track or follow the Bank of England  base rate, or to pass  on any 
decreases in prevailing interest rates within a given period of time.  The terms and conditions 
go on to list a number  of reasons why Northern Rock may increase the SVR. These 
reasons are broad and are fairly  open to interpretation but theres no specific  mention of 
changes to the Bank of England base rate being a reason to either  decrease  or increase the 
SVR.
I note that Landmark  chose  to pass this reduction on to its SVR several months after Mr Bs 
complaint. Overall, having taken into account  the terms of the mortgage and considered 
whats fair in all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Landmark didnt  treat Mr B unfairly in 
not passing this reduction  sooner. It was acting in line with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage, and Im satisfied that Landmarks SVR was broadly in line with other  comparable  
lenders over the period  in question.
Mr B complains hes a mortgage rate prisoner
Typically if Mr B was unhappy  with the rate of the SVR hed be able to apply for a new 
interest rate product  with his lender or remortgage  elsewhere. Im aware  there isnt an early 
repayment charge  that would prevent him moving his mortgage.  However,  Mr Bs said he 
cant move  his mortgage because of the high levels of borrowing he has with Landmark. He 
says hes in negative  equity and he owes Landmark more than his property is worth.
Because Mr B cant go elsewhere, he also complained that Landmark isnt making  new 
interest rate products  available to its customers. Landmarks said its not an active lender, 
and isnt trying to attract new customers through offering low rates. It says its taken a 
commercial decision in the interests of the financial management of its business  to maintain 
all its customers  on the SVR once  their previous interest rate products expire. To that extent,  
its not treating  Mr B any differently to any of its other customers. 
Ref: DRN59459514Its common for borrowers to take a fixed or tracker rate product  and then, at or shortly 
before its expiry, take another  rate rather than revert to their lenders  SVR.  Sometimes they 
may take out a new product with their existing  lender, or sometimes  its with another  lender. 
Ive looked carefully  at Mr Bs mortgage agreement. Theres nothing in Mr Bs mortgage 
agreement that says hes entitled  to a new rate  and thats also true of most other  lenders 
mortgage agreements  too. Theres also nothing in the regulators rules that requires 
Landmark to offer new interest rates. 
Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  I do that by taking into account the law, regulators rules  and 
guidance, and good industry  practice   but ultimately Im not constrained  by them  if I think  
fairness requires me to do something else. Ive thought  carefully about whether its fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances that Landmark wont  offer Mr B a new interest rate thats 
lower than its SVR.
Through no fault of his own, Mr B has ended up with a closed book lender that doesnt  offer 
new rates.  Landmark  is his lender,  and legitimately so. Its decided not to offer new interest 
rates to any customers,  including  Mr B. Under current law and regulations,  thats a decision 
Landmark is entitled to take.  
But in this case, Mr Bs said hes concerned that he wont be able to move his mortgage to 
another lender because hes worried he is in negative equity. There are a number of aspects 
of Mr Bs financial  situation that make me optimistic that this may not be the case. Mr Bs 
mortgage and his unsecured together loan are both on a capital  repayment  basis and Mr Bs 
kept up-to-date with his repayments  on both loans.  In the last 14 years Mr B has made 
significant progress  to reduce the balances outstanding under both his Landmark  loans.  And 
the unsecured  element of his borrowing isnt a part of his mortgage  that counts towards his 
loan to value.
However, I can understand why Mr B is worried about what his options are now. This is a 
challenging financial climate and Im not aware  what Mr B currently considers his property to 
be worth.  If Mr B is in negative equity he will struggle to move  to another lender and he will 
remain on Landmarks SVR. But I do consider that Mr B may have various options open to 
him  and Id encourage him to explore what those options might be. 
Ive thought about my experience of other cases involving lenders who have decided to 
withdraw from parts of the mortgage  market or have become closed books. In such  
instances some lenders  have made  arrangements for their borrowers to consult mortgage  
advisers to see whether  they can move  elsewhere  to a lender that would offer new interest 
rates. I think that represents good  industry practice.  In the specific circumstances of this 
case, I consider  that Landmark should arrange  for Mr B to receive  mortgage  advice  at no 
cost to him  as other  lenders do. 
To be clear, I dont think a referral  to a debt advice charity, or the Money Advice  Service,  is 
adequate in the context  of the good  practice offered  by other  lenders. I think  it would be 
appropriate for Mr B to speak to a regulated  mortgage adviser,  who will be able to offer 
regulated mortgage  advice  about specific mortgages Mr B may be able to apply  for 
elsewhere. There are particular aspects of Mr Bs unsecured borrowing with Landmark that I 
think merit specialist advice so Mr B fully understands what  the consequences of moving  his 
mortgage will mean for him.
Ref: DRN59459515I ask that Landmark  makes arrangements  for Mr B to receive  independent mortgage advice 
from a regulated mortgage adviser without charge to him, should  Mr B choose to make use 
of this service.
If Mr B cant move his mortgage  elsewhere  yet, at least hell be in a position to work towards 
refinancing elsewhere  in the future and hell be fully informed about his options  and any cost 
involved with this.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr B replied  to say, in summary:
- he would like me to look beyond the law and regulations and to take into account the 
impact that Landmarks actions are having  on peoples  lives;
- even if he could move  to another  lender  now, hes been unable to for most of the time; 
- hes heard on a documentary that Landmark  had made an agreement with the government  
to offer new interest  rate products and now it has gone back  on its agreement;
- Mr B also explained that because of the cost of his mortgage debt,  hes had to go without 
other things  over the years and borrow money from relatives at times. 
- Mr Bs said he wants compensation, not mortgage advice to help him move  his mortgage 
elsewhere. 
Landmark replied  to say it would like to refer Mr B to a debt charity thats able to provide 
regulated mortgage  advice.
my findings 
Ive carefully considered  all the available evidence and the further arguments that have been 
made by Mr B and Landmark to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
I appreciate the comments Mr B has made  and I dont  underestimate  his strength of feeling 
on the matter. I believe  Mr B when he says hes made sacrifices  over the years to keep  up 
with his debt payments.  I also think it is as a direct result of Mr Bs careful financial 
management that hes probably  now in a better position financially.  I know Mr B is frustrated 
that hes not been able to access a lower  rate of interest before. Im not sure if Mr B has 
previously explored moving his mortgage  but I still think he should explore  his options now.   
While I have taken into account  legislation and regulation in reaching my decision, Ive also 
considered whats  fair and reasonable. In the particular circumstances of Mr Bs complaint, I 
dont consider that further compensation should  be paid. Ive said I dont think Landmark  
have to provide  other mortgage  products to Mr B. 
It seems  to me that there are a number of reasons  why Mr B couldnt  move his mortgage  
elsewhere. Falling house prices and negative equity,  coupled with a change in lending 
appetite in the mortgage market following the credit crunch, and increased mortgage  
regulation are all factors.  Overall, I dont think it would be fair to expect Landmark to 
compensate Mr B for his mortgage being  on an SVR in recent years as a result of wider 
factors that couldnt have been  envisaged  at the time the contract  was entered  into. 
I think its reasonable that Landmark arranges for Mr B to receive mortgage advice, at no 
cost to him, so he can explore his options and potentially moving his mortgage  to another 
lender. I leave it to Landmark to decide which  regulated mortgage  advisor  it chooses  to sort 
Ref: DRN59459516out for Mr B. My direction is that Mr B should  have access to regulated mortgage advice 
(rather than debt counselling). This is so Mr B can make an informed choice about what  
mortgages and interest  rate deals might  be available to him with other lenders at present. It 
is then for Mr B to decide if he wants to move  his mortgage elsewhere.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint against  Landmark Mortgages Limited.
Ive decided that Im not able to look at Mr Bs complaint about the valuation  relied upon by 
Landmark when  he took out the mortgage in 2005.
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about  the fairness of Landmarks SVR or the transfer  of his 
mortgage without  his consent. However,  I think Landmark should  now make arrangements 
for Mr B to have access regulated mortgage  advice at no cost to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5945951