K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Qmetric Group  Limited  (trading as Policy Expert) automatically renewed 
his insurance policy  without his consent.  He says this has caused  him considerable 
inconvenience and money.
background
Mr G bought insurance during a phone call with Policy Expert in 2017.  He bought a policy  
with a guaranteed 2 year premium.
In 2018 the policy was due to renew. Policy Expert  says it wrote to Mr G about a month  
before the renewal  date and explained it would auto-renew  the policy unless Mr G contacted 
it to say he didnt  want that.
The policy was renewed about a month later and Mr G promptly  contacted Policy Expert 
explaining that hed asked  Policy  Expert  not to auto-renew his policy when he first bought it, 
and hadnt wanted payment taken from the credit card Policy Expert had used. Policy Expert 
said he could cancel  the policy and hed only be charged for about  four days worth of cover. 
Mr G complained about the premium being taken  from his account without his consent. He 
said there was nothing apart from a passing  comment about auto-renewal in the policy terms 
and conditions, and hed been  clear  about his wishes when he initially  bought  the policy.  He 
said he didnt see the renewal email Policy  Expert  sent as it went  to a different part of his 
email account. He said hed lost money  through fees and interest  being  charged  on his card 
account, and an adverse  movement in exchange rates.  
Mr G also sent Policy  Expert a subject access request (SAR) which required Policy Expert 
to send him any call recordings (amongst other things) it had of conversations between  Mr G 
and Policy Expert. Mr G received the recordings but couldnt access  them. 
Policy Expert said it didnt think it had done anything wrong.  Unhappy  with this Mr G brought  
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think his complaint  should  be upheld. In summary she said the call 
where Mr G bought his policy didnt mention how the policy should be renewed.  She said 
she could see auto-renewal  was clearly described  in the policy  sent to Mr G when he bought 
the insurance, and also that Policy Expert had emailed Mr G about renewing his policy  
including which credit card it would take the money  from in advance of the renewal  date. 
Overall she didnt think Policy Expert  had done  much wrong.
Mr G remains  unhappy about this, and Ive been asked to decide  this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to comment on every point Mr G made, although I have read everything he 
sent us. Instead  Ill concentrate on the key issues he raised.
Ref: DRN51374862Mr Gs main complaint is that he remembers telling  Policy Expert not to auto renew  his 
insurance policy  but it did so anyway. Hes made other points too, but Ill comment on 
those later.
Mr G says Policy  Expert hasnt followed the relevant  guidelines on auto renewal issued by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).  Ive given some thought to what  Policy  Experts 
responsibilities are on this.
The FCA says the seller of the insurance  has to make  it clear when selling the policy that it 
will auto renew, if thats what it does. It suggests  this could be during  a call  but it also says 
its acceptable to make this clear  in the paperwork thats sent to the policy  holder.  I think 
Policy Expert needs to do one at least of those  two things.
Ive listened to the call Mr G had with Policy  Expert when he agreed to buy his policy   and 
we sent it to Mr G so he could listen to it too. Theres no mention  of auto renewal in the call I 
listened to. Mr G says it was discussed. There  is one point in the call where the recording is 
stopped, because Policy Expert doesnt  want to record  in the call any of Mr Gs card details. 
Its possible auto renewal  was discussed  at this point, although its not mentioned  once the 
recording re-starts.  Mr G thinks  he discussed auto renewal at the end of the call and Policy 
Expert has deleted  this. I dont think that happened  in the call I listened to. The call ends as 
Id expect it to, with both parties saying goodbye. It is possible that auto renewal was 
discussed in an earlier conversation,  as Mr G was calling  because hed received some 
information from Policy Expert.  But I dont think  it was mentioned  in the call where he 
actually bought it.
As I cant  be sure auto renewal was or wasnt discussed during the call, Ive gone on to 
check whether the topic was clearly covered in the terms and conditions Policy Expert sent 
out. I think they were  clear. In the general terms and conditions theres a section headed 
Renewal which explains how this works.  I think that the section makes  it clear Policy Expert 
will use existing  credit card details to collect future  payments   but that Mr G could call to 
stop this if he so wished.
In line with the terms and condition, Policy  Expert  sent a renewal notice to Mr G at the 
beginning of October 2018,  saying that it would auto-renew the insurance unless it heard 
from him. Mr G told Policy  Expert  he received this, but it went  to his junk mail, so he didnt 
read it. I dont think Policy Expert can be held responsible for this, as its Mr G who would 
decide how incoming  emails are sorted in his mailbox.
Taking everything into account,  I think Policy Expert   did enough to bring Mr Gs attention to 
the fact that it auto renewed policies  and supported this with the renewal notice it sent the 
following year. 
It follows that as I dont think Policy Expert did much, if anything  wrong,  Im not upholding 
this complaint. That means  I wont be looking  at any costs Mr G said he suffered, or at 
compensation for his time and inconvenience.
Mr G also complained about how Policy Expert  dealt with his request for information  about 
himself  the SAR.  This service can look at a great  number of things, but not everything  a 
customer complains about.  How a business  responds to a SAR is an activity  regulated  by 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Policy Expert says it would have helped Mr G 
open the call recordings he sent if hed asked,  but didnt know  he was having  problems.  If 
Ref: DRN51374863Mr G is unhappy with that response  he could contact the ICO about what he should do next. 
I cant say more on this topic other  than that we shared  the calls we received from Policy 
Expert with Mr G, so hes had the same information we have, and I have no reason to think  
Policy Expert withheld  any information.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5137486