K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) gave her poor service  after she made  a 
claim on her motor  insurance policy following an accident. 
background
Miss Bs car was damaged in a collision. It was repaired by one of UKIs approved repairers.  
The car had been back with Miss B for a week when  it wouldnt start. UKI said a garage of 
Miss Bs choice could  diagnose the issue and gave her a hire car. The garage  found that the 
cars head gasket  had failed. UKIs  engineer said that was a mechanical fault and couldnt 
be connected to the minor  damage caused in the accident, or to the repairs.  Miss B didnt 
agree. She said it was due to the accident or was caused by UKIs repairer.
Miss B also complained  that UKIs staff spoke to her inappropriately due to her race. Later 
on, she said the car hire firm UKI used  shouldnt have charged her £50. And she said the 
petrol shed  left in her car had been used when she got the car back  from the repairer. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Bs complaint. He thought UKI had acted reasonably  
by relying on the view of two engineers  about the head gasket. He listened  to the calls 
between Miss M and UKIs employees.  He didnt think there was any evidence in them of her 
being treated  less favourably for racial reasons. He noted that UKI had offered Miss B £125 
compensation, partly because staff had raised  their voices at times. Miss B withdrew her 
complaint about  being charged £50 by the hire company, as the sum was returned to her. 
The investigator didnt  think Miss B had provided  evidence of missing petrol, but said it was 
fair that UKI had asked  the repairer  to look into the matter.
After Miss B queried some issues, the investigator  issued a follow-up letter  to his initial  view.  
He said UKI had confirmed that Miss Bs car was held by a recovery firm until it was sent to 
the garage of her choice. UKI said it had offered her a choice of garages to check  the fault 
with the car as she wasnt happy with the initial repairer. UKI knew  it wasnt going to repair 
the head gasket by mid-September 2018,  therefore it was for Miss B to collect her car. But 
she said she wouldnt return the hire car until she was given her car back. UKI knew she 
needed to return  the hire car in order to avoid serious problems with the hire firm. So in the 
end UKI returned  her car to her, as a gesture of goodwill. The investigator thought  UKI had 
acted reasonably in relation to all the issues Miss B had raised.   
As Miss B didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint was passed  to me.
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
Ref: DRN50509812I think it was reasonable  for UKI to conclude that the head  gasket wasnt damaged in the 
accident or by its approved repairer. I think the engineers evidence is persuasive.  Miss B 
said shed been  given different advice elsewhere, but she hasnt provided anything  that 
contradicts the evidence  UKI based  its view on. I can see why she might  have assumed the 
engine failure  must  be connected to the accident or the repairs. It seems  shed had the car 
serviced shortly before the accident, and no issues with it were  raised.  But the engineer  said 
that in a car the age of Miss Bs car, the head gasket can fail suddenly at any point. 
Ive listened to the disputed calls. I think its fair to say that at times an advisor  spoke over 
Miss B - but that she also interrupted and spoke over him. I think its very likely that he would 
have raised his voice no matter who was speaking  to him in those  circumstances. And he 
apologised at the time for doing  so. I think the same  applies to the call between Miss B and 
the engineer.  He became  frustrated towards  the end of the call - but I think thats because 
hed given his explanation  to Miss B several  times and could add nothing  more. I dont think  
the calls show that Miss B was treated less favourably than she otherwise would have  been  
by UKIs employees on racial grounds. UKI paid Miss B £50 compensation as it accepted 
that they shouldnt have  raised their voices. I think that was fair. 
UKIs notes  show that there was a further  call with another  advisor who said hed get the 
engineer to call Miss B. UKI accepted that the advisor didnt follow-up on his promise.  It paid 
Miss B £50 compensation  for that, which I think was also fair. 
I think Miss B was left in hire for far longer than is usual. Once her garage had confirmed the 
problem was due to the failure of the head  gasket,  UKI had no responsibility for repairing the 
car. At that point, Miss B should have made  plans  for it to be collected so she could get it 
repaired herself. And she should have handed back the hire car. But UKI accepted that she 
was in a city a long way from home  - and from where her garage was - due to a family 
matter. UKI allowed her to keep  the hire car for a further three  weeks at its expense. It also 
arranged to have  her car delivered back to her. I think  that was more  than fair.
UKI didnt  charge Miss B for transporting  her car to the garage  for the diagnostic  checks  and 
she wasnt charged the £75 fee for them. I think UKI acted more than reasonably in terms of 
all these issues. It also paid Miss B £25 for the petrol she said had been  used by the 
repairer. That was despite the repairers  insistence  that the car hadnt  been driven by its staff 
and the lack of evidence  from Miss B on the issue.
I dont think Miss B has shown that UKI acted unreasonably in dealing  with her complaint. In 
my opinion, in relation  to some issues it did more than it could have  been  expected  to do in 
order to assist her. So I cant uphold Miss Bs complaint.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5050981