K820x#14complaint and background
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them  a 
number of accounts. Their account history is as follows:
opened as a fee free account
upgraded to an Additions Plus account  in September  2006
changed to a fee free account with a Travel  Plus Pack  add on in November 2012
changed to a fee free account with a Travel  Pack in 2016
changed to a free account  in 2018
Mr and Mrs W say that they were not told that the cover offered by the travel insurance  could
be withdrawn if they developed  medical conditions. In addition Mr and Mrs W say that the
lounge passes which came with the accounts  were not fit for purpose.
Ive attached my provisional decision from December 2018, which forms part of my decision.  
In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I wasnt  planning to uphold  this 
complaint. In short, that was because I didnt think that Barclays had mis-represented  the 
benefits that came with the account  in the manner  described by Mr and Mrs W. I also set out 
why I believed that Barclays offer of £100 in relation to saying incorrectly that it had upheld 
the complaint  was sufficient.
I asked both Mr and Mrs W and Barclays to let me have any more  information they wanted 
me to consider. Barclays  has accepted  my provisional findings,  and Mr and Mrs W have 
responded with some  further comments, which I will respond to.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not upholding this
case.
Mr and Mrs W responded to my provisional decision. They restated that they were  told that 
they would  be always covered for medical  conditions providing they declared them and that 
they were told they could  always use their lounge passes at all lounges  regardless of which 
Airline or class they were  travelling.
I have carefully thought  about this and I am not satisfied  that it is likely that they were told 
that their medical conditions would always be covered. I think it was highlighted that Mr and 
Mrs W needed to declare their medical  conditions in order to see if they would be covered 
rather than being  assured  that all conditions would be covered  going forward if declared.  I 
say this because  if all conditions were covered regardless of what they were, then there 
would be no reason to have  to declare them.  So I think that Mr and Mrs W would have been 
aware that they were being asked  to declare the medical conditions for a reason.
In relation to their lounge passes I am not satisfied  that Mr and Mrs W were told that all 
lounges in all airports would be available at all times. I remain of the opinion that while  the 
lounge passes would have given them access regardless of class  of travel  and Airline it 
would depend  on their being a participating  lounge  with available  space. I understand that 
they may have thought that they would find it easier to use and that it would be more useful 
to them  but I dont think it was likely that they were told they can use it at all airports at all 
lounges. 
Ref: DRN53180022I know that Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed  and frustrated by this, but I have to make my 
decision based on the information available and overall I dont think  Barclays  owes 
Mr and Mrs W a refund  of the account  fees.
As I set out in my provisional  decision I can see that Barclays incorrectly  said it had upheld 
the complaint  before  clarifying  that it did not and that I remain of the opinion that its offer of 
£100 was reasonable.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  currently intend to ask Barclays  Bank  UK PLC 
to do anything more  and therefore it should pay Mr and Mrs W £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs Ws to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
copy of my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN53180023Where evidence  is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind  everything Ive seen and been told.
After giving  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint a lot of thought,  I currently think what Barclays have offered to 
do is enough  and I am not persuaded that the accounts or packs  were  mis-sold. Let me explain  why.
Mr and Mrs W have not said that they werent given a fair choice  to take out the accounts  or packs; 
their complaint relates more  to the benefits of these accounts being  mis-represented to them. 
Specifically, that they were not given accurate  information about the lounge passes and the travel 
insurance.
Firstly I will address the information that Mr and Mrs W were provided with in relation to the travel 
insurance.
Mr and Mrs W say that they were not told that the cover on the account was dependent on them  
passing medical  screenings and that if they developed  medical issues the cover may be withdrawn. I 
am satisfied  that Barclays  told Mr and Mrs W that they would need to declare medical conditions  and 
this is illustrated by the fact that Mr and Mrs W did declare  them as they arose. Given  that Mr and Mrs 
W were aware of the need  to declare these conditions  I think it would  have been reasonable for them 
to have known that there was a reason  that they were  being asked to do so. And that this may affect 
the cover that they would  be provided with. After  all, why would Barclays make it clear  that Mr and 
Mrs W had to declare  medical conditions  if the cover was unchangeable, regardless of the conditions 
that Mr and Mrs W might develop  in the future?
Given this I think Barclays told Mr and Mrs W enough in relation to the Travel insurance to allow Mr 
and Mrs W to make an informed choice as to whether they wanted  the Additions Plus account  or the 
two packs.  I should also add that Mr and Mrs W were able to cancel the accounts  or packs if they no 
longer thought they provided  value for money and that Barclays were  under  no obligation to reduce 
the cost of the accounts and packs once  the travel insurance was no longer available to them.
I will next address Mr and Mrs Ws issues with the lounge passes. Firstly I should highlight that the 
lounge passes were  a benefit of the Travel Plus pack only. Mr and Mrs W say that they attempted to 
use these passes  on a number of occasions and were only rarely  successful.  Mr and Mrs W also say 
that they specifically asked about these lounge  passes and they were told that they could  use them 
regardless of what airline and class that they were travelling. My understanding of these  lounge 
passes is that it does  give access to lounges  regardless  of what airline  and class that a person is 
traveling, but it is dependent on their being a lounge with available space at the airport that they are 
travelling through.  
It may have been the case that due to the particular airports  Mr and Mrs W were  using and the times 
of year that they travelled the lounge  passes were of limited use to them. But I dont think  this means  
that they were mis-led at point of sale or were  guaranteed  during the sale that they would  be always 
able to use the lounge passes.   
I will now address Barclays saying that Mr and Mrs Ws complaint was upheld before changing its 
decision. While I can understand that it would be frustrating for Mr and Mrs W that Barclays changed  
its decision I cannot reasonably tell Barclays  to reinstate  its offer unless I think  it mis-sold the 
accounts and packs. For the reasons I have set out above I do not think  that this was the case. 
Having said this I do think that this change in position wouldve caused a measure of trouble and 
upset to Mr and Mrs W and I think that Barclays  offer of £100 is sufficient to address this.
 Having  carefully considered what Mr and Mrs W and Barclays have said I dont think that the 
packaged bank account or the packs were mis-sold  or that Barclays needs to do anything more than it 
has already  agreed  to do.
Ref: DRN5318002