K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold a life insurance policy by Phoenix Life Limited  as he 
was led to believe it would provide  a payout at the end of the term. 
background
Mr T and his wife applied for joint life and critical illness cover in 1998. Not all the options 
they wanted were  available to them due to medical  reasons. But eventually  life cover of 
£28,000 over a 25 year term with a rated  premium of just over £27 was agreed  for Mr T. The 
policy is still in operation. A few years later Mr T did also start a critical illness  policy,  which  is 
also still in operation but isnt a subject of this complaint.
Phoenix Life didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint about his life policy.  It felt it had been  a suitable 
recommendation, given he was married,  and that hed been provided with sufficient 
information about how the policy worked. This included  the fact that there would be no 
payout unless  a claim was made. Phoenix Life could  find no evidence  that Mr T had been 
told there would  be any payout at the end of the term, or anything that wouldve indicated to 
him that hed been sold an endowment policy rather  than a life policy. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service,  but our investigator reached the same 
conclusions as Phoenix Life and for broadly the same reasons. 
As Mr T remained  unhappy and of the opinion that hed been  mis-sold the policy,  the 
matters been  referred  to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr T feels he was led to believe there would be a payout from the policy  at the 
end of its term. While Ive no particular  reason to doubt his recollections of the sale (although 
this was a sale from over 20 years ago), I have to balance these against the documentary 
evidence. And none  of this indicates  that the policy was anything other than a life assurance  
policy that would payout only in the event of Mr Ts death. 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy was an endowment, or similar, that would provide a 
value at the end of the term. I note that Mr T has referred to the policy as a whole  of life 
policy. But, for clarity, its a term assurance policy set up to pay out a claim if he died during 
its 25 year term.  
I note also that he says he didnt receive much of the documentation associated with the 
sale. But there does  appear to have been  quite a lot of engagement  between him and 
Phoenix Life during  the process  of setting up the various  policies, including him signing to 
accept that the policy  would  proceed in his name only and with increased premiums  because 
of medical issues. 
So, I think, on balance,  he wouldve  had enough  information made  available to him in order 
to make an informed decision.  I appreciate that as time has passed it may have become less 
clear what  type of policy this was. But I dont think Phoenix Life can be held responsible  for 
any misunderstanding that might have occurred  since the sale. 
Ref: DRN51898752In respect of suitability, Im satisfied that given his circumstances Mr T had a need for the 
policy. It seems  the only existing cover he had in place was for funeral expenses.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5189875