K822xcomplaint
Mr B complained that Close  Brothers  Limited didnt handle his request to reject  a car 
properly.
background 
The adjudicator set out the background at some  length in his view issued in November and I 
wont rehearse the detail in this decision,  but the following is a short summary. However, I 
can reassure Mr B and Close Brothers  that I have taken into account  their respective 
submissions and evidence.
In January 2018 Mr B bought a car funded  by a conditional sale agreement. He encountered  
a number of problems and Close Brothers  agreed to have the car repaired. This was done 
and it paid Mr B some  £1,000 to cover  three  months  payments and compensation of £150. 
The work was checked  by an independent engineer.
The car was returned to Mr B at the end of May, but there  was damage to the bumper and 
the battery  was flat. Close Brothers  paid for a new battery. At this point further  faults were 
identified and Close Brothers asked for the independent engineer to comment. There  was a 
delay in the engineer responding. A response was received  by Close  Brothers on 12 July 
and on that day it informally agreed  to accept  the rejection  of the car.
Close Brothers asked for a formal report into the state of the car from another  engineer and 
this was arranged  for 23 July. Unfortunately  this was cancelled by the engineer due to 
sickness, but Mr B had taken the day off work. Shortly after this Close Brothers  accepted the 
rejection of the car and it was collected on 2 August.
Close Brothers refunded  the remaining three  months payments, along with a further £150 for 
the loss of enjoyment Mr B experienced by not having the car. It also refunded the road tax 
and the £1,000 deposit Mr B had paid. It also refunded Mr Bs insurance costs.  Mr B felt this 
was insufficient  and in an email dated 22 August he set out his estimate  of the cost of hiring 
a car for the period he was without the rejected car. He said this ranged between £4,019 and 
£7,445 and suggested Close Brothers  come back to him with an offer between  those two 
figures. It refused to do so.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators  who recommended that the 
compensation be increased  by a further £250.  Mr B didnt agree and felt the day he had 
taken off work hadnt been recognised. He said the problem lay with the car being faulty and 
so everything which  came  out of that was Close Brothers responsibility and he should be 
compensated. He said he had suffered five months  of stress until the business finally agreed 
to let him reject the car. He said this service awarded much higher levels of compensation 
than the adjudicator proposed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN52092442The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It has been accepted that the car was faulty and it has been rejected and Close  Brothers has 
refunded the costs  incurred by Mr B. The only issue not resolved is the level of 
compensation due. When  a customer  notifies the business that the goods are defective it is 
only reasonable for the business  to seek the views of an independent expert. This is what  
Close Brothers did and it then arranged for repairs to be undertaken and refunded Mr Bs 
monthly costs. Quite sensibly it asked the expert if the repairs had been done  satisfactorily  
and he confirmed they were.
When Mr B had the battery  replaced the garage which  carried  out this work identified  other  
issues and at that point Close Brothers  said informally  that it was open to a rejection. That is 
a major step and it is reasonable for the business  to ask for a formal report  confirming the 
faults. They paid for a third party to make the inspection, but the engineer cancelled his visit. 
A report from another garage was accepted  as evidence of the faults and the car was 
rejected.
The power I have  to award compensation for trouble and upset comes  from the rules  that 
apply to how we work.  The regulator's handbook says we can award  fair compensation that's 
a proportionate reflection of the impact a business's actions (or inaction) had on their 
customer. Throughout this matter  I believe  Close Brothers has acted fairly and reasonably. It 
was not responsible for the engineer  cancelling the inspection. It is appropriate that the 
business was satisfied there were grounds for rejection and to do so it commissioned 
independent reports  at its own cost. 
Mr B has been inconvenienced  and has suffered some upset, but I believe the sum of £550 
is more than fair and reasonable  and in line with what this service  recommends in these 
circumstances. I also consider it is sufficient to cover any interest  that I could award on the 
refunds paid by Close Brothers. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed,  but I dont believe I 
can fairly award any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brothers  Limited to pay 
Mr B compensation of £250 in addition  to the £300  already paid. Under  the rules of the 
Ref: DRN52092443Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 9 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5209244