K821x#15complaint
Mr P firstly complains about  a personal  loan provided to him by Loans  2 Go Limited, trading 
as Loans 2 Go, (L2G), which he says was unaffordable. He is also unhappy with L2Gs  
customer service.
background
L2G provided Mr P with a loan of £400 on 1 September 2018.  The interest rate was 205.2%  
(989.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of 
£90.62. If Mr P made  each payment when it was due, hed pay £1,631.16 in total. The loan 
hasnt been repaid.  
Mr P said that if adequate  checks had been carried out, L2G would have seen that the loan 
was unaffordable.  He had suffered with a gambling addiction for several  years  and his 
addiction was the reason for applying  for the loan. When  he applied for the loan, Mr P was 
already behind in repaying several payday loans and other credit commitments and he was 
already in a repayment plan for a £400 loan with a payday loan provider as he could not 
afford his repayments.  That loan should have been visible to L2G if it had looked through his 
credit report  closely.  As he could not afford  the £400  payday  loan (with interest/charges 
capped at the amount of the loan),  Mr P queried  how L2G could have  believed  that he could 
afford a £400 loan with it that came  with well over £1,000 in interest.  Mr P also said that hed 
exceeded the credit limit on his credit card for over 20 months. Hed also taken out nine 
payday loans  in the two months prior to taking  out the loan. 
Mr P is also unhappy about  the rude way L2G spoke to him in a call in which  he was seeking 
to delay a repayment as he was struggling.  Mr P had told L2G that he could  make  a 
payment later in the month. Mr P said that a very rude person had said they would not help 
him. Mr P had told L2G that he could not pay anything that day, and had asked whether L2G 
would keep harassing him in the meantime?  Mr P said that he used the word harassing very 
clearly and that L2Gs staff member  had replied yes. Mr P thought  that it was disgusting  to 
be treated like that. Mr P stopped him thereafter  and asked him to reconfirm what hed said.  
Mr P said that L2Gs staff member  made  up some nonsense saying  that he didn't really hear 
him, but did say sorry for it. Mr P said that apology wasn't enough and made him worry 
about the company that he was dealing with if this was the attitude of their staff. 
In its final response letter  for Mr Ps first complaint issue, L2G said that it had carried out a 
thorough affordability  assessment. It had asked Mr P for his monthly income  and 
expenditure and reviewed  his payslip and credit  file. L2G noted  that Mr Ps payslip showed 
his income as £2,293.18, although  hed declared  a monthly income  of £2,500  in his 
application form. And whilst Mr P declared  his expenditure as £1,060, L2G calculated it to be 
£1,720.11 after reviewing Mr Ps credit  report and after applying a 5% buffer  to allow  for 
fluctuations in Mr Ps monthly outgoings.  This left a disposable income of £573.07. After 
deducting the monthly loan payments of £90.62 this left Mr P with a disposable income of 
£482.45. L2G said that Mr P had enough disposable income to repay the loan.  So, it didnt 
uphold this aspect  of Mr Ps complaint.
In its response to Mr Ps second complaint issue, L2G said that it had listened  to the call in 
question. Having listened to the call L2G said that it could confirm that Mr Ps statement was 
are you going  to continue to which L2Gs staff member responded yes prior to the end of 
the statement. Mr P had then asked  its staff member to confirm  whether he was stating that 
it would  continue harassing Mr P even  though  Mr P was unable to pay. In response to this, 
Ref: DRN59174512L2Gs staff member advised that was not what Mr P had previously  said and if it was, hed 
misheard. The staff member also confirmed that what he meant was that L2G would 
continue with his account as normal but apologised if hed misheard Mr Ps original  
statement. So L2G didnt  uphold this aspect of Mr Ps complaint.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator assessed the first aspect of Mr Ps complaint and recommended that it be 
upheld. He said that based  on the credit checks L2G had completed, he thought L2G 
shouldve done  more. He said that the checks showed multiple loans that were under 
arrangements to pay that predated the loan by around a year but also continued up until    
Mr P requested this loan.  This likely suggested that he had been having difficulty repaying 
many of his loans for a long period of time. He couldnt see that L2G had carried  out further 
checks. The adjudicator had reviewed  Mr Ps bank statements  and found  that Mr P was 
gambling with large portions of his salary. He thought  this shouldve been  enough  to 
determine that it may not have been right to agree to lend based on this type of spending on 
the account. 
L2G disagreed.  As well as adjusting Mr Ps declared  income and expenditure as set out 
above, L2G also said that it had checked Mr Ps credit report. This didnt show any adverse 
information such as accounts that had entered a defaulting or delinquent status within  the  
three years prior to the application or evidence  of any county  court judgements, individual 
voluntary arrangements  or bankruptcy. L2G said that Mr P was up to date with most of his 
active accounts and had settled quite a few loans prior to taking out the loan which  was a 
clear indication that he was managing his finances  well. L2G also noted that Mr P had 
honoured the repayment arrangement the adjudicator had referred to and never  missed  any 
payments. The lender  also said that considering Mr Ps credit history,  the loan amount and 
the monthly repayments, L2G believed the checks were proportionate.  And based  on that 
information, it concluded that Mr P would be able to afford the repayments relatively 
comfortably. 
L2G also said that Mr P was given the opportunity to tell L2G about  his other regular 
expenses (such as gambling) but he chose not to inform it about this. It also referred to 
another decision of this Service to support its view. It believed it wasnt unreasonable to rely 
on the information it had and approved the loan. 
As this complaint  hadnt been resolved  informally,  it came to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to L2G on 7 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
I noted that Mr P had asked us to consider both aspects of his complaint and Id dealt with 
these under separate headings.
Id said that L2G had referred to other decisions made by this service  that had been  
published on our website. But I said that we decide each case  on its own merits and it wasnt  
always appropriate to compare the outcomes of complaints without a detailed  understanding  
of the specific facts of each complaint.  
Irresponsible lending  complaint
Ref: DRN59174513When L2G lent to Mr P the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  Its rules  and 
guidance obliged  L2G to lend responsibly.  As set out in CONC, this meant that L2G needed  
to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford  
to meet  its loan repayments in a sustainable  manner over the lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  meant  being  able to meet repayments out of normal  
income while meeting  normal outgoings  and not having to borrow further to meet  these 
repayments.
The lender  was required to carry out a borrower  focussed  assessment each  time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or affordability check.  Neither  the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate  
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried  out in practice.  The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated  cost and risk to the borrower relative  to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst  other factors.
The checks  had to be borrower focussed   so L2G had to think  about whether Mr P could 
sustainably repay  his loan. In practice  this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments  to the loan wouldnt cause  Mr P undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough  for L2G to simply think about the likelihood  of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr P. 
In general, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers  income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting  the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make  
repayments for an extended  period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on the first aspect of Mr Ps complaint, Id 
considered the following questions:
-Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing Mr Ps 
loan application  to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate  checks  have 
shown?
-Did L2G make a fair lending decision?
Did L2G carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks when it provided the loan?
As set out above, L2G gathered some  information  from Mr P about  his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit  check.
Mr P had declared that his monthly  income  was £2,500  and that his expenses  were £1,036 
including £100  credit commitments.
Ref: DRN59174514But Id thought L2G should have been  concerned  from its credit  checks about Mr Ps 
financial situation. L2Gs credit check showed that Mr P had two live short  term loans, both 
taken out in July 2018  and both subject to a payment arrangement at the time. It also 
showed that Mr P had two other  loans  subject to a payment  arrangement  one taken out in 
early July 2018 and the other  taken  out a week earlier. Altogether the total amount  borrowed 
under these four loans was £1,900. Mr P had also taken  on another loan for £400 in         
July 2018 but no repayments for this loan were shown in the checks. The checks also 
showed that Mr P had three credit  card balances at or over their respective credit limits and 
a current account  which was over its overdraft  limit. I also thought  L2G ought reasonably to 
have been concerned that Mr P had taken out five loans in the ten weeks  leading  up to his 
loan application  but that only £100 had been declared for his credit commitments  in his loan 
application. 
Id noted that L2G amended the amount of Mr Ps expenses following its credit check to 
around £1,720.  It also amended the amount  of his income following sight of his payslip  to 
£2,293.18.  I thought  L2G should have been concerned about  the accuracy of the other 
information provided in Mr Ps application  form. For instance, Id noted that Mr P had said in 
his application  form that he had no dependants, but his payslip showed  that he received 
paternity allowance.  
Id also thought L2G ought to have been concerned about Mr Ps ability  to repay  its loan out 
of his usual means,  without borrowing,  as he wasnt managing to do so with his existing 
debt. It was clear that his finances were already pressured, and hed also taken on 
substantially more debt within  the previous ten weeks.  I didnt think  it was likely Mr P would 
have been able to meet further  debt sustainably if he was just servicing his existing debt. 
I didnt think L2G treated  Mr P fairly when it agreed  to lend to him based on the information it 
would have seen  on its credit checks because this showed it was likely  that agreeing more 
credit for him would  simply have added to his debt levels. At the least, I thought  it would 
have been reasonable  and proportionate for L2G to have looked  into Mr Ps spending in 
more detail before doing so. In addition, in view of the amount being  lent, the repayment 
amounts, the length of the loan term and that Mr Ps finances  in its credit checks were 
showing signs of strain, Id thought L2G should  reasonably have taken steps to gain a more  
thorough understanding of Mr Ps financial position  in order to satisfy itself that he could 
sustainably repay  the loan.  L2G didnt say it took steps to do this. So overall, I didnt think  
that the checks that L2G carried out before  agreeing to the loan were  reasonable and 
proportionate.
But that in itself didn't mean  that Mr Ps complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks  would have shown L2G that  
Mr P couldn't sustainably  afford the loan. So, Id looked at Mr Ps bank statement information  
to see what better checks would have shown L2G.
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time? 
Mr P had provided his bank statements from around  the time hed applied  for the loan. I 
wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that L2G should have done. But I thought 
looking at his bank  statements  gave me the best picture of what the lender should have 
seen. Had it sought  some verification of Mr Ps spending, I thought L2G wouldve been  in a 
better position to have  understood Mr Ps financial situation before it decided  to lend to him. 
Ref: DRN59174515Had L2G looked into Mr Ps finances in more depth, I thought it would have likely found out 
that he was reliant  on short term lending. He had at least nine outstanding short term loans  
which would have been repayable at the same  time as L2Gs  loan. So, further checks would 
likely have shown that Mr P had other debts it didnt know about  and that Mr P was having  
significant difficulties  managing his money. 
It was also clear to me from the bank statement information that Mr P was gambling heavily. 
I didnt think this was conducive to him being  able to sustainably repay this loan. He was 
spending the rest of his income on.his mortgage  payments,  council tax, living  costs  and his 
other regular  financial  commitments. He told this Service that he was in mortgage debt at the 
time and had to pay a large part of his wage to try and begin paying  back the arrears. I could 
see that Mr Ps expenses were substantially  higher  than hed disclosed to L2G.  
So, it was clear that further  checks wouldnt  likely have provided  the assurance  L2G needed. 
As Mr P was borrowing a significant amount of short term loans just to fund his existing 
expenditure and credit  commitments, I thought  there was a very real prospect that he would 
need to borrow  again in order  to repay  his new loan and that would likely have a significant 
adverse effect  on his financial  situation. 
Id noted that L2G had said that Mr Ps disposable income of £763.20 would be sufficient to 
make the loan repayments. But it seemed to me that L2G was focussing on its calculation of 
whether the loan was affordable for Mr P on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was 
required to establish  whether Mr P could sustainably make his loan repayments   not just 
whether the loan payments were  technically affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable  on this basis might  be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it didnt automatically follow that this 
was the case.  And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order  to make  his 
payments, it followed that a lender  should  realise,  or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  
that a borrower  wouldnt be able to sustainably make his repayments if it was on notice that 
he was unlikely to be able to make his repayments without borrowing further.
Id also noted  that L2G had referred to Mr P honouring the payment arrangement the 
adjudicator had referred to and that hed never  missed any payments. But L2G would have 
been aware from its credit check that Mr P also had four recent payment arrangements 
which would only have  been entered into relatively recently  as the loans  had only been taken 
on in the previous ten weeks. I would have  thought  that L2G would have been concerned  by 
Mr Ps need  to enter into these.
L2G also said that Mr P was given the opportunity to tell it about his other regular expenses 
(such as gambling)  but he chose not to inform it about this. But I thought L2G would likely 
have found out about these if it had carried out proportionate checks.
So, if L2G had carried out the independent view of Mr Ps circumstances that I thought  was 
needed for this loan,  I thought L2G ought reasonably  to have realised that it was unlikely that     
Mr P would have been able to sustainably repay his loan.  So, it should reasonably have 
concluded that it wasnt appropriate to lend to him and so I considered  it was irresponsible  to 
have done so. I thought  L2G treated Mr P unfairly  when it agreed  to lend to him, and I 
intended to say that I was satisfied that this aspect of Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. 
Customer service  complaint
Ref: DRN59174516I could see that Mr P was unhappy at the way L2Gs staff member  had spoken to him on the 
phone. I had set out above in some detail Mr Ps concerns  and L2Gs response. Id also 
asked the adjudicator to ask L2G to provide a recording of the call in November 2018 which 
had led to Mr Ps complaint.
L2G had provided  a recording  of the call and Id listened to the call several times. I could 
hear that after Mr P had said he wouldnt  be able to make a payment that day, L2Gs  staff 
member had said that L2G needed to see some  sort of payment on the account and that no 
payment had been received. L2Gs staff member then said that L2G would proceed with the 
account as normal  until it saw some sort of payment and the process  would continue. Mr P 
said that hed tried to email and then said what sounded like so even if a person 
cantyoull just continue. L2Gs staff member then appeared to interrupt Mr Ps statement 
and said that that was exactly what would  be happening and that there  was nothing it could 
do from its end.  Mr P had then said that he had just asked L2Gs  staff member if L2G was 
going to continue harassing  him and that L2Gs staff member had said yes  it was going to 
continue harassing  him. But L2Gs staff member then said in response that he didnt hear 
Mr P say harass and that he had said that L2G would continue  with the process.  The  staff 
member then said that if he had misheard Mr P, then he apologised.
Id said that Mr P would  see from my understanding of the call above  that I hadnt  heard him 
say continue to harass and I also hadnt heard L2Gs staff member say that L2G was going 
to continue to harass  him. I didnt think that L2Gs staff members response  was rude and I 
thought it was reasonable that the staff member  apologised if he had misheard.
So, I didnt think that L2G had acted  unfairly with regard to this aspect of Mr Ps complaint 
and subject to any further information  or evidence I may receive from the parties, I said I 
didnt intend to uphold this aspect  of Mr Ps complaint.   
Subject to any further representations by Mr P or L2G my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold Mr Ps irresponsible lending  complaint and say that L2G should put 
things right as shown below. I understood that the loan hadnt been repaid. 
Putting things  right  what  L2G needs to do
In line with this Services approach, Mr P shouldnt repay more than the capital amount of 
£400 he borrowed for his loan. 
If L2G has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so or chooses to 
do so and then take the steps listed below. If L2G isnt able to buy the debt back  or chooses  
not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
1.Remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Ps account  from when it was 
opened;
2.Treat all payments made  by Mr P as payments towards the capital amount.
3.If Mr P has made payments above  the capital amount, then these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple  interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
4.If there  is a shortfall in repayments  which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then L2G needs  to treat Mr P sympathetically and fairly,  which  may include 
coming to a new arrangement about how best to repay this; and 
Ref: DRN591745175.L2G should remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Ps credit file up to 
this point in relation  to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest.  L2G must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
Mr P responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it and didnt have any 
more information  to pass to this Service.
L2G hasnt provided  a response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr P and L2G have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require L2G to pay Mr P some  compensation and take the steps set out 
above under  the heading  Putting  things  right  what L2G needs to do.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Loans 2 Go Limited, trading  as Loans 2 Go, to put things right as Ive set out above 
under the heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2021.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5917451