K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Miss Hs complaint  is about  the service provided in relation to a central heating,  
drainage and plumbing insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited
background
The policy held with British Gas includes an annual service of the boiler. A service  was 
carried out in October  2017, during which British Gas said there was a fault with the boiler.  
The engineer said that the part needed  could no longer be obtained, so British Gas could not 
carry out the repair and the boiler  would need  to be replaced. Mr T and Miss H say they 
found the required part and told British Gas this at the time but it refused to use a part it had 
not obtained itself.  
Mr T and Miss H are also very unhappy that they have been  paying for the cover with British  
Gas when parts for their boiler were no longer available. They say that if they had known 
this, they would not have  continued  with the cover. I understand they cancelled the policy  in 
November 2017.
British Gas says the boiler was last made in 2001  and so new parts are no longer being 
made for it. British Gas says that being on a reduced parts list doesnt automatically mean 
parts cant  be found and it also buys  up parts and keeps  its own stock but it did warn 
Mr T and Miss H that their boiler was on the reduced service list, at every  annual service  
appointment since 2013. British Gas says it would have  been willing  to fit the part needed if 
Mr T and Miss H were able to source  it but they told them in March  2018 that they were  
unable to find one. British Gas offered Mr T and Miss H £80 for the unproductive 
appointment, delay  in response and the inconvenience caused.
Mr T and Miss H are very unhappy with this, they say:
 
The part was available when they first looked  for it four months before British Gas 
said it would fit it if they found  it. At that point,  it was no longer available.
The policy has been of no benefit to them.
They were never  told about  the reduced  availability  of parts,  if they had they have 
used the premium each year to save towards a new boiler  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He did not recommend it be upheld. The 
investigator was satisfied that British Gas had told Mr T and Miss H that the boiler was on 
the reduced service  list, meaning that it would  have trouble sourcing parts for it if required. 
Also the policy  provided cover for the central heating  system, plumbing  and drains. 
Mr T and Miss H do not accept the investigators assessment. They are adamant  that they 
spoke to British  Gas about the replacement part shortly after the visit in October 2017. They  
also say that none  of the job sheets left with them after each service visit mention  any 
reduced availability  of parts.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN55841522I can see that British Gass internal records show that it was recorded that the parts were on 
a reduced service list since at least 2013.  Mr T and Miss H say they were never told this and 
it was not noted  on any job sheets left with them. I have not seen those  job sheets. Overall, it 
seems to me likely that this would have been mentioned to Mr T and Miss H at some point, 
even if it was not recorded  on job sheets.  In addition, the boiler  was apparently  21 years old. 
I consider most consumers would know that parts would start to become more  difficult to get 
for an older  boiler.
However, even if it wasnt mentioned, I am not persuaded this would mean the policy was 
fundamentally unsuitable for Mr T and Miss H. It provided cover  for breakdowns  with the 
boiler and some faults could be repaired without the need to replace parts. The policy  they 
held also provided  cover for plumbing  and drainage problems and included an annual 
service. Overall there  was still benefit to them in return for the premium paid. I do not 
therefore consider  that it is reasonable to require British Gas to return  the premiums paid. 
The part required  to fix the boiler was not in British Gass stock  and it was unable to obtain it 
elsewhere. Mr T and Miss H say it was available in late 2017.  Mr T says that having 
scoured the internet for a week he found  it on two websites. It would appear it was not easy  
to find, if he spent a week  searching on the internet. Theres  no evidence provided  about the 
stockists or any other information to confirm that it would n=have been the correct, genuine 
part. It is accepted  that by March/April  2018 the part could not be found  at all.  
Mr T and Miss H are adamant they told British Gas they could get the part before 
December 2017  and that if British  Gas had responded reasonably then, the boiler  could 
have been repaired. British Gas has no record of any contact  about  obtaining the part before 
December 2017  and there is no other evidence to support Mr T and Miss H on this point.
Having considered all the evidence available to me, I do not consider that it has been  
established that British Gas could  and should  have  replaced the part in late 2017. The part is 
now unavailable and so the repair could not be carried  out. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that British Gas acted unfairly or unreasonably.  I consider the 
£80 compensation  offered to be reasonable in all the circumstances and do not propose to 
make any further award. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5584152