K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited declined the claim he made  under  his private 
medical insurance policy.
background
Mr D took out his policy in March 2018 and made a claim within  a week.  Vitality  gathered  
information about Mr Ds medical history  as part of its assessment  of his claim and declined  
it based on this. Vitality said Mr D had suffered with the same condition in the five years 
before he took out the policy and the moratorium term said such conditions  wouldnt be 
covered until Mr D had gone  for two consecutive years without treatment  or advice since  the 
policy started.
Mr D didnt think that was fair  he said the condition hed claimed  for was different to the 
problems he suffered with previously   so asked us to look into the complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month setting out why I didnt think Vitality had 
unreasonably declined Mr Ds claim.  I said, in summary, that:
The policy terms and conditions explained that  as with most private medical insurance 
 the policy  was designed to cover new medical  conditions arising after the policy 
started. Mr D took out the policy on a moratorium basis which meant  Vitality  wouldnt pay 
for the treatment of any medical  condition or related condition which hed received 
medical treatment for, had symptoms of, asked advice on, or which he was aware 
existed in the five years  before his cover started. That is until Mr D has been trouble-free 
from the pre-existing (or any related condition)  for two consecutive  years from the policy  
start date.
Vitality provided recordings of the calls Mr D made to report his claim.  And I didnt think  it 
was wrong of Vitality  to note initially that his condition was renal in nature. Hed said 
during one call that the pain was difficult to describe but hed also referred to it more than 
once being kidney pain, and in the first call he said hed suffered kidney pain before. 
Also, when he first complained to us, he said he originally  went  to see his GP and 
urologist because he thought the abdominal pain he was suffering with was related to a 
kidney stone. So I thought Mr D originally thought the condition he was suffering from 
might be a recurrence  of the problems hed previously had with his kidneys. 
Vitality originally declined Mr Ds claim  because it said the condition was a recurrence of 
the renal problems  hed suffered  with previously.  I thought  Mr Ds GP probably also 
thought originally that his pain was a recurrence  of his previous kidney problems. But the 
GP subsequently  said it was not, as did his urologist. And his gastroenterologist  
diagnosed him with something else entirely. So I didnt  think  it was fair for Vitality to have  
declined Mr Ds claim based  solely on the comments his GP made on the claim form. 
And I thought  it subsequently couldve done a better job of explaining why the claim 
wasnt being paid even after Mr D provided the additional  evidence from his GP and 
consultants. But, in the circumstances, I thought  it possible, even if Vitality had explained 
things more clearly to Mr D, that hed have asked us to look into whether Vitalitys 
decision was fair. So I didnt think it would be fair to award any compensation in 
recognition of the fact Vitality couldve done  a better job explaining to Mr D why it was 
declining his claim. 
Ref: DRN58602142When Vitality  submitted its file to this service it said the claim was declined because  
Mr D was likely already  suffering  with the condition when he took out the policy.  And I 
thought that was probably right given  hed booked an appointment with his urologist the 
same day he took out the policy and the consultation  took place the following day. Mr D 
had already seen  the gastroenterologist before he made  the claim. Mr D says he delayed 
making the claim because he didnt  really want to claim and was hoping the pain would 
go away by itself.  And I didnt think that was unusual   in my experience, people will 
often wait a few days before seeking medical  attention to see if a problem resolves on its 
own. But Mr Ds comments strengthened  my belief that he was likely suffering with the 
symptoms of his condition when he took out the policy. It seemed more likely than not 
hed probably  been experiencing the pain for a few days before  he booked the 
consultation with the urologist. Which meant he was likely experiencing symptoms in the 
when he took out the policy. And the policy doesnt cover treatment for pre-existing 
conditions.
Mr D didnt accept my provisional findings  and said, in summary, that I was biased towards 
Vitality and:
The pain started on the same  day he took out the policy,  not before. He made  the 
appointment with his urologist that same day because hed previously had kidney stones 
and knew from a previous, bad experience  that if it was a recurrence he would need  
urgent medical  attention. But the pain he was suffering at that time was an unusual, 
sharp pain which  hed not experienced before.  His ultrasound  was booked five days  after 
his appointment  with the urologist. If the pain had gone by then he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the ultrasound. And he wouldnt have made the claim if the problem had 
been a recurrence of kidney stones.
His GP told him he only provided details of his previous kidney problems because the 
claim form was headed up kidney  problems.
Hes seen the gastroenterologist on previous occasions, but not in relation to the pain he 
was experiencing which led to this claim.
He doesnt  place much weight on Vitalitys  opinion as the staff he spoke with werent 
doctors. He comes from a family of doctors and has more  knowledge of his medical 
conditions than Vitality  do.
Vitality had nothing  further to add after reviewing my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr D disagrees with the assumptions Ive made but I must make my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities, so what I consider is most likely to have  happened  
given everything  thats been said and provided. And, with that in mind, I think  Mr D has been 
somewhat inconsistent in his recollections  and some  of what  hes said feels a bit 
contradictory to me. 
For example, Mr D says now that the pain was very different to what hed experienced 
before when hed had kidney stones. Yet he told Vitality during  the first two calls that he 
Ref: DRN58602143thought it was kidney pain. And he sought medical attention the same  day the pain started  
because one time in the past when  he did have  a kidney stone problem he nearly  didnt act 
quickly enough. So I still think, overall,  that he thought it was most likely kidney-related pain. 
Despite what he says,  I think Mr D was trying  to claim  for kidney-related  pain initially.  
Mr D originally said he didnt want to claim so waited a few days to see if the pain would go 
away. But he now says the pain started on the day he took out the policy.  He doesnt say 
when exactly the pain started. And I dont know at what time he completed the online 
application for the policy. But the urologists secretary said the appointment was booked  at 
2pm the same day the policy  was taken out. Given everything Ive seen I still think  its more 
likely than not Mr D was suffering with symptoms of the condition before he took out the 
policy. 
I didnt say so in my provisional decision,  but Mr D didnt  mention that hed already seen the 
urologist when he spoke with Vitality  and, in the second call when he was asked if hed had 
kidney pain before he suggested he had not. This has also played  a part in my decision-
making.
Overall, I dont  think it was unreasonable for Mr Ds claim to have been declined.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5860214