K820x#14complaint
Ms C complained that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) when she took out a personal  loan.
background
Ms C applied for a loan of £2,500 in a Barclays branch in 1998  and bought  a single  premium  
PPI policy  at the same time. This type of PPI policy meant that it had to be paid for up front 
in one single  payment  and it protected her against losing her job or being unable  to work. 
The PPI cost £635 and this amount was also lent to Ms C by Barclays. 
These events were over 20 years  ago and so its not entirely clear from the few records we 
still have access to how long the loan was for. Nevertheless Ive seen some information that 
tends to suggest both the loan and PPI part of the loan ran over a period of 60 months,  
although we now know Ms C probably paid the loan off early. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Ms C disagreed and 
the complaint  has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Neither Barclays nor Ms C were  able to send me the original documents from the sale, but 
given how long ago it was, this isnt surprising  or unreasonable. However, weve  seen a 
number of very similar sales from around this time period and weve looked carefully at the 
process Barclays used to sell PPI with loans at that time. As a consequence,  Im familiar  with 
the documentation Barclays normally used and in coming to a decision, Ive taken account  of 
what both parties have told me and also used my knowledge and experience of how these 
sales were usually carried out. 
Using what I know about Barclays  sales process,  I think Ms C would have been asked to 
complete and sign an application form for her loan.  This form would have also offered a yes 
or no choice as far as buying PPI was concerned and so Ms C would have most likely had 
to tick the yes option for the PPI to be added.  
Ms C says it was implied that she ought to have PPI to get the loan approved. But Barclays 
sent me an example of a 1998 application  form. And like those Ive described  above I can 
see there  was an obvious choice about  having or declining  the PPI.
Based on this I think its much more  likely  Ms C was given an option about buying  the policy.  
I think she wouldve been able to see she didnt have to have this cover if she didnt want to 
and so I think its likely she properly gave  her consent.
Barclays says it probably  recommended this policy to Ms C which  means it had a duty to 
make sure that it was suitable for her situation. From  what Ive seen, I think she was eligible 
Ref: DRN50353832for the cover and I dont think shed have been  caught by any of the major exclusions we 
tend to see in these types of policies. 
Ms C told us she had only very moderate sickness protection through her job, so I think  she 
had a use for the policy. For example,  in the event of a successful claim, it could have paid 
out a monthly  benefit and this would  have been  in addition to any other means  she already 
had in place. 
The loan and the PPI policy also both ran for the same term lengths and although she paid 
the loan off early, I dont  have any information which suggests  this was foreseeable. My 
experience is that Ms C would have received a portion  of the PPI back  as a result  of the 
early repayment, although  perhaps  not a fully proportionate amount.
Overall, I cant say why she took out the PPI but I can understand how she could have had a 
use for it. Overall, I think the policy  was suitable  for her.
Barclays also had to give information about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
I cant say that Ms C was told everything  she should  have been. However, on Barclays  loan 
agreements weve seen  from this period  - and on the example it showed me regarding this 
case  there  was an explanation of the terms and conditions of the PPI. So I think Ms C 
would have had access to this when deciding  what  she wanted  to do.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint. And I dont direct Barclays  
Bank UK PLC to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5035383