K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that MYJAR Limited, trading as MYJAR, gave him loans that he couldnt 
afford. The complaint has been  brought to this service on Mr Ds behalf by a claims 
management company.  But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr D.
background
I attach my second provisional decision dated  9 March 2020 which forms part of this final 
decision and should be read in conjunction  with it. In my second provisional  decision I 
explained why I intended to uphold  Mr Ds complaint in part. I invited both parties to provide 
any further comments they may have had by 23 March 2020 before I reached a final 
decision.
MYJAR responded  to my second provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
Mr D hasnt responded to my second provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As neither party has asked me to consider further  information or arguments, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions set out in my second provisional decision.  It follows that I 
uphold Mr Ds complaint  in part. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order MYJAR Limited  to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr D paid on Loan 3 and pay interest of 8% simple a 
year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement*;
2.With regard to Loan 4, refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr D has paid on 
Loan 4, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 4;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  4 and 
pay any balance to Mr D; and
5.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loans  3 and 4 from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If MYJAR 
Ref: DRN58592662intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balances,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58592663COPY OF SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr D complains that MYJAR Limited gave him loans that he couldnt  afford. The complaint has been 
brought to this service  on Mr Ds behalf by a claims  management  company. But for ease I shall refer 
below to all actions being taken by Mr D.
background
Mr D took out four short term loans with MYJAR. Loans 1 to 3 were  repayable by three monthly 
instalments. Loan 4 was repayable by 12 monthly instalments.  Loan 4 hasnt been repaid. Mr Ds loan 
history is as follows:-
Loan number 
Date of 
LoanLoan amount Highest monthly 
repayment amount  Repayment date
1. 24/11/2017 £100 £50.45 25/12/2017
2. 2/1/2018 £200 £108.34 19/1/2018
3. 20/1/2018 £700 £370.72 2/2/2018
4. 7/3/2018 £2,025 £300.22 Unpaid
MYJAR said that it had conducted  appropriate  and proportionate affordability checks. It asked Mr D 
for his income  and regular expenditure (housing  costs,  other  credit commitments and any other 
expenditure) and conducted  a credit check. It also took into account a minimum  amount for household 
expenditure and Mr Ds borrowing from other lenders.  
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  about Loan 4 should be upheld.  She said that by 
Loan 4 Mr D showed signs that he was struggling  to repay some of his previous  loans. Each time he 
repaid one loan, he took another loan shortly  after.  She said there was a significant risk that Mr D 
would have been unable to sustainably meet his repayments for Loan 4.
MYJAR disagreed. It said that there was a lack of information in the adjudicators  view. It would like a 
decision from an Ombudsman which refers to its specific checks.
my provisional  decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued  a provisional  decision on this complaint to Mr D and to 
MYJAR on 3 February  2020.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that when MYJAR lent to Mr D the regulator was the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included  its Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that MYJAR needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant  that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought  less thorough  
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN58592664the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer had been  given loans (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There might  even come  a point where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending  was unsustainable.
I thought it was important to say that MYJAR was required to establish  whether Mr D could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  
and pence calculation.
 
I explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this was the case. This was 
because the CONC defined sustainable as being  without  undue difficulties and in particular the 
consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting  other reasonable commitments,  as well 
as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it followed  that a lender should  realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a borrower  wouldnt be able to make their repayments  
sustainably if they were  unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all meant for Mr Ds complaint.
MYJAR had told us about the checks it did before lending  to Mr D. Id noted from MYJARs records 
that it had details of Mr Ds income as well as details about his housing costs,  other monthly expenses 
and other  credit commitments. MYJAR said that it had made adjustments  to these figures using its 
own internal  affordability  calculations. 
Id also noted that MYJAR carried out credit checks and Id seen a summary of its credit checks.
 
Wed not received a credit  report from Mr D so I wasnt aware of anything on that which  might have 
caused MYJAR additional concerns.
 
Id thought about whether MYJARs checks  were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that for Loan 1, 
Mr D needed to make  three monthly  repayments of varying amounts up to £50.45 to repay it. I could 
see that the repayments were relatively  modest compared to the income  of £2,000 Mr D had declared 
to MYJAR.   
Id noted MYJARs credit  check showed Mr D had opened two new accounts  in the previous three 
months and that his unsecured loan balances  were estimated to be £7,080. The checks also showed  
that one short term loan account was overdue. I could  see that Mr Ds other borrowing  might have 
suggested to MYJAR that his finances were under pressure.  But I didnt think  the repayment amounts 
on Loan 1 were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr D financial difficulty.
On balance, I thought  that the checks MYJAR carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were proportionate. 
Given Mr Ds repayment amounts for Loan 1, what was apparent about  his circumstances at the time,  
and that this was his first loan with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR 
to ask him for the amount of information that would have been  needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. And at that stage there wasnt anything in the information Mr D had provided  or the 
information MYJAR shouldve  been  aware  of, which  meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I didnt think MYJAR was wrong to give Loan  1 to Mr D.
Mr D repaid Loan 1 early  and took out Loan 2 around eight days  later.  The loan amount had doubled 
to £200 with a highest monthly repayment amount of £108.34. I could  see that the repayments were 
still relatively modest compared to the income of £1,800 Mr D had declared to MYJAR.   
Ref: DRN58592665Id noted that MYJARs credit check showed hed opened no new accounts in the previous three 
months and that his total unsecured loan balance was estimated to be £5,868. So this had reduced 
since Loan 1. The checks also showed that one short term loan account was overdue.  I couldnt see 
that Mr Ds other borrowing might have suggested to MYJAR  that his finances were  under pressure. 
And I didnt think the repayment amounts on Loan 2 were so large that its obvious  they wouldve  
caused Mr D financial difficulty.
On balance, I thought  that the checks MYJAR had carried  out before agreeing Loan 2 were  
proportionate. Given Mr Ds repayment amounts for Loan 2, and what was apparent  about
his circumstances  at the time, I didnt  think it wouldve  been proportionate for MYJAR to ask him for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at that stage there wasnt anything in the information Mr D provided  or the information MYJAR 
shouldve been aware of, which  meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what he was 
saying. So I didnt think MYJAR was wrong  to give Loan 2 to Mr D.
Mr D again repaid  Loan  2 early and he took out Loan 3 only a day later. So I thought  MYJAR ought  to 
have realised it was more  likely than not that Mr D was having to borrow  another loan to cover the 
hole repaying his previous  loan was leaving in his finances.
The loan amount had significantly increased  to £700. The highest  monthly repayment was £370.72. I 
couldnt see that MYJAR had carried out a credit check just before Loan 3. But I didnt  think it would  
have been unreasonable  for it to rely on its check before Loan 2 less than three weeks earlier. 
Although I didnt think at that stage of its relationship with Mr D that MYJAR had any reason to doubt  
the information hed provided,  the monthly loan repayments were  a significant  proportion  of Mr Ds 
income. So I thought it would have been reasonable for MYJAR to have supplemented the 
information it held by asking  Mr D some more detailed questions,  such  as whether  he was borrowing 
from other short term lenders at the same time.
I would have  normally looked at the borrowers  bank statements to see what  proportionate checks 
would likely have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Ds bank statements for the month before  
Loan 3. Id noted that the adjudicator had asked  Mr D for his bank statements in June 2019 so hed 
had ample  time to provide these. So I couldnt say that if MYJAR  had completed sufficient checks, it 
would have found that Mr D couldnt afford to repay Loan 3 sustainably. So I couldnt say that MYJAR 
was wrong to give Loan  3 to Mr D.
Loan 3 was again repaid  early. I thought that behaviour  might  have caused some concerns to MYJAR 
about Mr Ds finances. Mr D took out Loan  4 just over a month later and the amount  had substantially  
increased to £2,025 to be repaid by 12 monthly repayments with a highest repayment of £300.22.  So 
Mr D was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period  than previously. And as 
Loan 4 was Mr Ds fourth loan in less than four months, I also thought  MYJAR should have been 
concerned that Mr D might  have been reliant on its lending. I thought all this might have been seen as 
an indication of potential  financial difficulties. 
So I didnt think it was reasonable for MYJAR to base its assessment before Loan 4 on the 
information provided  by Mr D as the loan amount had increased substantially from before, and Mr D 
was now committing to making  the loan repayments over a lengthy period.  So I thought  it might have 
been proportionate at that time for MYJAR to have independently reviewed  the true state of Mr Ds 
finances. As far as I could see MYJAR didnt do this. So I needed to think  about  what  MYJAR 
wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Again I would  have normally looked at the borrowers bank statements to see what  proportionate 
checks would likely have  shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Ds bank statements for the month 
before Loan 4. So I couldnt  say that if MYJAR had completed sufficient checks, it would  have found 
that Mr D couldnt afford to repay Loan 4 sustainably. So I couldnt  say that MYJAR was wrong  to give 
Loan 4 to Mr D.
Ref: DRN58592666Subject to any further representations by Mr D or MYJAR my first provisional decision was that I didnt 
intend to uphold this complaint. But Id said that my proposed decision might change if I received bank 
statements from Mr D for December  2017 to April 2018.
Mr D responded  to my first provisional decision by sending this service  his bank statements  for 
December 2017 to April 2018.
MYJAR responded to say that it accepted my first provisional decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
As Id said above, I thought  it might have been proportionate for MYJAR to have gathered some  
further information from Mr D about  his other short term loans before Loan 3. Ive now reviewed  the 
bank statements weve received from Mr D to see what  MYJAR  would  have seen if it had done 
proportionate checks before  Loan  3. Had it done so, its likely that MYJAR wouldve learnt  that Mr D 
had at least three  outstanding other short term loans with other lenders with monthly  repayments due 
at the same time as the repayments on Loan 3. I can see these on Mr Ds bank statements. I think  
that the number and amount of Mr Ds outstanding short term loans  show that MYJARs loans werent 
likely to be sustainable. So I think MYJAR  ought  to have realised it was unlikely Mr D wouldve  been 
able to sustainably  repay Loan 3. And it was wrong for MYJAR  to give Loan 3 to Mr D.
As Id said above, by the time of Loan 4 I thought it might have been proportionate for MYJAR  to have 
independently reviewed the true state of Mr Ds finances. Ive now reviewed the bank statements 
weve received from Mr D to see what MYJAR would have  seen if it had done proportionate checks  
before Loan 4. If MYJAR had made proportionate checks it would have seen that Mr D was spending 
a significant percentage of his income on gambling and had at least  three other outstanding  short  
term loans with other lenders that would  have been repayable around the same time as Loan 4. I 
think its likely that MYJAR would have found out about all this if it had enquired further into Mr Ds 
circumstances when he applied  for Loan 4. And as a responsible lender it wouldnt have agreed to 
lend Loan 4 to him.
So, I intend to uphold this complaint in part and say that MYJAR should  put things right as follows:
putting things  right  what MYJAR needs to do
1.Refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on Loan 3 and pay interest of 8% simple a year 
on such  refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement*;
2.With regard to Loan  4, refund all the interest and charges that Mr D has paid on 
       Loan 4, and pay 8% simple interest*  a year on the refunds from the date of payment to       
the date of settlement;
3.Write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan  4;
4.Apply the refunds  referred  to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 4 and pay 
any balance to Mr D; and
5.Remove any adverse entries about Loans 3 and 4 from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  MYJAR to take off tax from this interest.  MYJAR must give Mr D a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If MYJAR intends to apply  the 
refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Ref: DRN58592667my second  provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, but subject to any further information  or evidence I might receive from 
the parties, I intend to uphold  this complaint in part. I intend to order MYJAR to pay Mr D 
compensation as set out above.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5859266