K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Tilney  Investment  Management Services  Limited  took too long 
to transfer their ISAs  to another  provider.
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in our adjudicators letter  of 17 October 2018.
I wont set out the details  again. I think its enough to say that there doesnt seem  to be any 
dispute that the transfer took too long. What  is in dispute is whether all the delay was down 
to Tilney, or whether the new provider was also at fault.
Tilney offered £200 compensation.  Our adjudicator thought that should be £200 each to Mr 
and Mrs P, so £400 in all.
Tilney agreed.  Mr and Mrs P didnt think that was enough. They said theyd paid Tilney  fees 
of £617 for the transfer. So the adjudicators view effectively meant that Tilney had received 
£215 for appalling service. They thought all the fees should  be refunded with compensation 
as well for the inconvenience and anxiety caused.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our adjudicator. I know thats  not what Mr and Mrs P want  to hear and that theyll 
be disappointed.
I dont know if Tilney  was entirely at fault here. I suspect there might have been  some delays 
by both sides which added to the overall  length of time taken. 
But even if Tilney was entirely to blame for the delays I think  the £400 now offered is fair.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs P are unhappy  that theyve had to pay Tilney for what  has 
been an unsatisfactory experience. But it isnt my role to change  the terms and conditions  of 
the contract  between Tilney and Mr and Mrs P. Tilney did the work asked of it and, under the 
contract, it is entitled to be paid. 
My role is to make sure Mr and Mrs T dont lose out because  of any shortcomings on the 
part of Tilney. 
The transfer didnt  go well. Mr P, in particular, was put to a lot of trouble  chasing Tilney and 
trying to sort this out for himself and his wife. Undoubtedly both Mr and Mrs P were  upset 
and worried about  how long things were taking.  
I think it is right that Tilney should pay compensation to reflect that and I think  the £400  now 
offered is fair.
Ref: DRN54923512my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct Tilney Investment Services Management Limited to pay Mr 
and Mrs P £400 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5492351