K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly  allowed  a payment to be paid to a third 
party when shed  requested it to be cancelled.
background
In May 2018  Mrs A entered into an agreement with a company who I shall call S for the 
supply of a modem  and television box. Following  installation Mrs A found she was unable to 
access the television stations provided  by the box due to insufficient  internet speed at her 
property.
Mrs A contacted S to cancel the agreement. S told Mrs A that penalty  charges would apply. 
On 15 June 2018 Mrs A contacted Santander and asked it to stop all payments to S.
Mrs A then received a text from S telling her that a payment would be collected  on 1 July 
2018. She assumed that the payment wouldnt be collected but later discovered  that £630.18 
had been paid from her account with Santander on 2 July 2018.
Mrs A contacted Santander and said that she hadnt authorised the payment  to S. Santander 
raised a direct debit  indemnity and refunded Mrs As account with funds whilst it 
investigated.
Santander received  information from S which showed the payment was valid.  It returned the 
money to S and debited Mrs As account.  Mrs A complained to this service. She wants  
£630.18 refunded to her account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Santander had followed the direct  
debit indemnity rules.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said she hadnt given  instructions for a direct  debit to be set up in 
favour of S and had only agreed for the initial set up fee to be taken from her account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A says shes  not bound by the direct debit  indemnity rules  because she never set up a 
direct debit mandate. She says her account  details  have been used fraudulently by S to 
secure the payment of £630.18.
Santander has confirmed  that a direct  debit mandate was set up electronically when Mrs A 
entered into the agreement with S. 
Ive seen a copy  of the mandate.  Its possible that Mrs A thought she was only authorising a 
set up fee but on the available evidence Im satisfied that a direct  debit  was set up.
Im therefore  considering  this complaint in the context of the direct  debit  guarantee.
The direct debit guarantee  protects  customers if there has been an error in the payment of a 
direct debit, such as a mistake with the payment amount or the date of the direct debit. The 
Ref: DRN58357662guarantee doesnt cover contractual disputes  between the customer and the organisation 
claiming payment.  The guarantee  also says that a customer can cancel a direct debit at any 
time by contacting  the bank or building society.
In this case, I can see that Mrs a contacted  Santander on 15 June 2018 and asked it not to 
make any payments to S. Santander has explained  that it can take up to 30 days to cancel a 
direct debit.
The request  for payment was made  by S on 2 July 2018. Its unfortunate that the 
cancellation of the direct debit hadnt  been  completed by this time but on the available 
evidence Im unable  to say that Santander did anything wrong.
As soon  as Mrs A realised that payment had been taken she contacted Santander to dispute 
it. A direct debit indemnity was raised  and the money was refunded to Mrs A. This is what  I 
would expect Santander to do whilst it investigated  the claim.
Ive already said that the direct debit  guarantee isnt designed to deal with contractual  
disputes between  the customer and the billing organisation. The entitlement  to a refund isnt 
absolute. It requires that there has been  an error  in the payment of the direct debit. A bank 
isnt obliged to automatically refund a direct  debit just because  a customer says theres been 
an error. Banks are entitled to investigate and can ultimately decide not to refund any money 
if the evidence  doesnt show that an error  has been made.
In this case, S provided information to show that the payment was valid. Its not the role of 
Santander to look behind a valid direct debit  mandate, even if theres  a dispute between the 
customer and the merchant. Im satisfied  that Santander has followed the direct debit 
indemnity rules in this case. For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold  the 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5835766