K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited wrongly recorded an accident as a fault 
accident on his motor insurance records which caused his premium  to increase. 
background 
Mr B was involved  in an incident  in January 2017 where the other  driver drove off without 
leaving his details. Mr B reported  this to Aviva who listed it as a fault incident given there 
were no details of the other driver. 
Later that year in November 2017  Mr B was involved  in another incident.  This time the other  
driver did exchange details. Mr B again  reported  it to Aviva who listed  the incident as non-
fault and no claim was made under  Mr Bs policy.
When Mr B realised  Aviva had recorded  the January 2017  incident as a fault incident  he 
complained as Aviva never explained this was what it did. Aviva then decided to change the 
notification on all internal  and external databases to a non-fault  incident. It also said it would 
pay him £125 compensation.
Mr B remained unhappy  because Aviva had made this mistake. He was of the view it had 
increased his premium. Aviva confirmed  it hadnt.
However Mr B remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt 
think Aviva  needed  to do anything more. Mr B disagreed and so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
My role and that of this service is to assess here whether  Aviva  did something  wrong.  If it 
has then we assess has it done enough to put things right.   Here  Aviva agreed it did 
something wrong. It didnt  tell Mr B the January  2017 incident was recorded as fault claim. It 
agreed it should have done  that. So to put things right for Mr B it amended his insurance 
record to show its now a non-fault  incident and it paid him £125 compensation.
I consider thats  sufficient  for an issue like this. And had not Aviva done this I would be 
requiring it to do so.
So as it has done  this, Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Mr B believes this mistake impacted his premium amount.  Weve  asked Aviva to investigate  
this and it has provided us with its calculations. I cant share  those figures with Mr B as 
theyre commercially sensitive. But its clear Mr Bs premium hasnt been impacted 
negatively by this issue as its also clear his premium amount in any event  reduced.  
Calculating the premium by any motor insurer like Aviva is a very complicated  process  and it 
takes accounts of numerous different rates and issues  and changes constantly. Its all 
processed by highly trained actuaries. But its clear to me from the information that Aviva has 
Ref: DRN58201292disclosed to us that Aviva has done  this properly and that significantly  Mr Bs premium  hasnt 
been increased because of this.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5820129