K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Phoenix Life Limited  didn't  contact him when it took over the 
administration of his pension plan. He says it also failed  to contact him when he was nearing 
his retirement date. 
background
Mr D's Normal Retirement Date (NRD) was 10 February 2014. Phoenix wrote to Mr D on the 
23 September 2013 and again  on the 19 November 2013 about  his pension options.  
Unfortunately Mr D did not receive these letters as he had moved home and had not told 
Phoenix.
As Phoenix  didn't receive a response to either  mailing, in line with its policy,  the retirement 
date for Mr Ds plan was deferred for five years. 
Phoenix then wrote  to Mr D again  in January 2017  to begin the retirement  process. It wrote 
to the address it had on file. This letter was returned  as undelivered. As the letter  was 
returned Phoenix used a tracing service to find Mr D. The trace  was successful and in July 
2017 it was able to get into contact with Mr D. 
It then followed its usual  retirement process and sent out the relevant paperwork.  An annuity 
has now been arranged  for Mr D.
Mr D complained to Phoenix. He said he didnt think it should have assumed that he didnt 
want to take his pension benefits  just because he didn't respond to its letters  in 2013. He 
said he felt it should have tried to trace  him sooner. Mr D said he had missed out on five 
years of annuity payments due to Phoenixs  failure to trace  him.
Mr D also said he hadnt been  notified when Phoenix had taken over as his pension 
administrator.
Phoenix didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  It said that when it took over the administration  in 
2004/5 all customers were notified of this change.  It said it would have written to Mr D at the 
time, at the address  it held for him. 
It explained that when it didnt receive a reply  from Mr D to either  of the letters it sent in 2013 
it followed its normal procedures and Mr Ds retirement was deferred for 5 years. It said that 
although it appreciated Mr Ds frustration, it was up to Mr D to notify it of any change of 
address. 
It explained that it used a tracing service in 2017  as the letter  it sent was returned marked 
Gone Away'.  But it said it did not receive  any such notification in 2013,  so it was unaware  
that Mr D had not received its letters.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Phoenixs  response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She said, in 
summary, that she didnt  think it was reasonable to expect Phoenix  to conduct traces for 
every customer who failed  to respond to a letter - particularly a letter that didn't  necessarily  
require a response.
Ref: DRN54150622When the letter it sent in 2017 was returned as undelivered, Phoenix took steps to trace 
Mr D. She said she felt Phoenix had acted  reasonably by taking steps  to trace  Mr D when it 
became aware  that he was not living at the address it had on file.
She noted Mr D had said the delay in receiving his pension  had made  a big difference to his 
family. Mr D said he wanted Phoenix  to pay him the difference in the annuity he would have 
received in 2014 and the annuity he received in 2019. Mr D also said he wanted 
compensation for the loss of the use of his pension. 
She explained that at age 65, the annuity Mr D would have been entitled to was £3,254.88 
per year. However, by taking his pension benefits at age 70, five years  later,  his fund would 
have provided  an annuity of £4,248.12 per year.  
In view of this she said she didnt  think Mr D had been financially disadvantaged as a result  
of the deferral.
She said it was very unfortunate  that Mr D didnt receive Phoenixs letters  in 2013 about his 
pension plan. But she said she didnt think Phoenix could be held responsible for this as 
Mr D had not notified it of his new address. She said that if Mr D had let Phoenix have his 
new address in 2009 when he moved  he would've received the letters  sent to him in 2013 
and have had the opportunity to take his pension benefits in 2014.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. He said Phoenix should  have sent annual  
statements but he hadnt received any statements from Phoenix for 14 years. Mr D reiterated  
that he didnt get anything  from Phoenix  when it took over as his pension  administrator in 
2004/5.
Mr D also said that he didnt think Phoenix  had properly calculated  his annuity.
Our investigator looked into these issues and asked Phoenix for further clarification.  
Phoenix said it didnt  have proof that it wrote to Mr D when it took the administration  of his 
pension. But it said a mailing was sent to all policyholders at the time. 
As the transfer  to Phoenix was over 13 years ago our investigator said she didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect  Phoenix to have  held evidence to show  it wrote to Mr D at the time. 
She said that although she accepted  that Mr D didnt receive the mailing  she thought  that it 
was more likely than not that a letter had been  sent.
With regard to the calculation of Mr Ds annuity,  Mr D said his financial adviser had told him 
it hadnt been calculated correctly. Phoenix  said the figures  had been  manually calculated 
and checked by its actuarial department. In the absence of anything  to show the calculation  
was wrong our investigator  said she could not expect Phoenix to do more  to address this 
point.
Mr D remained  unhappy and asked  for his complaint to be determined by an ombudsman. 
He also said he wanted the issues in his complaint  to be raised with the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).
Ref: DRN54150623my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ds position  and I have carefully considered everything that has been 
said and provided  in relation to this complaint. Having done so, I dont think  Mr Ds complaint  
can be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr D says he didnt receive anything from Phoenix  in 2004/5 when it took over the 
administration of his pension. I accept that Mr D didnt receive  the mailing. But this doesnt 
mean that he wasnt included in the mailing  sent to all policy holders about the change of 
administrator. Like our investigator, I think it more  likely than not that the letter addressed to 
Mr D went astray in the post. And I cant reasonably  hold Phoenix responsible for any 
failings in the postal system.
There is no regulatory requirement for Phoenix to keep a copy of mailings about a change of 
administrator sent over 14 years ago. So I cant reasonably say that it should be able to 
provide evidence to show  that it wrote to Mr D in 2004/5  about  taking over the administration 
of his pension  plan.
Mr D says Phoenix should have sent him annual  statements for his pension  plan. I can see 
that it would  have been helpful if Phoenix  had sent statements to Mr D, but there  was no 
requirement on it to do so. 
I appreciate that if Mr D had received regular statements this may well have  prompted  him to 
let Phoenix know his new address. But there  was no requirement for it to issue statements  
for the type of policy Mr D held (a Section  32 buy-out policy). As this is the case,  I cant  say it 
acted incorrectly by not sending statements.
Phoenix has provided evidence to show  that Mr D contacted his previous pension 
administrator in 2004 to find out whether he could take his pension benefits  early. It appears 
this wasnt possible as the value of his pension pot at that time wasnt  sufficient to cover the 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP).  Mr D then returned a form in early  2005 confirming 
his national insurance number. So it appears  that Mr D was aware of his pension plan at that 
time. 
It is very unfortunate that Mr D did give Phoenix  his new address, or try to contact his 
previous pension provider who could have  passed the information on to Phoenix,  when he 
moved home  in 2009. Had he done  so I am satisfied that he would have received the letters  
advising him of his pension options  sent in 2013. Mr D would then have had the opportunity 
to take his pension benefits in 2014.
I appreciate that Mr D thinks that Phoenix  should  have  tried to trace him when it did not 
receive a reply to these  letters. But I must  take into account that it had no way of knowing 
that Mr D had not received the letters as they were not returned.
When the letter sent in 2017 was returned Phoenix took steps to trace  Mr D. I think  it acted  
correctly in tracing Mr D when it became aware that it didnt have his current address.
I note Mr D says his financial  adviser has suggested  that his annuity  has not been calculated  
correctly. Mr D has not explained what his adviser  thinks is the problem. In the absence of 
Ref: DRN54150624anything to explain why Mr D feels there may be an issue I have not been  able to investigate 
this aspect of his complaint any further.  I note that Phoenix says the calculation,  including  
the increase to take account of the deferment  was checked by an actuary.
In its letter  to Mr D dated February 2019, Phoenix  explained how the pension  fund has been 
calculated. It said:
The commuted value  of the policy at the normal retirement date, £38,841.26, is re-valued by 
3% per year until your now late retirement  date to make £45,027.67...
... The guaranteed  rates  of your policy still apply, the guaranteed  rates  are actuarially 
equivalent in that we have  fairly  adjusted to allow for the fact that you will not live as long 
compared to if you retired at your 65th birthday.
I note Mr D has said he wants to know what that FCAs  view is of his complaint. This service 
determines complaints  on their individual merits. We dont have  the power to order  a 
business to change its processes or to fine or take disciplinary action if a business has acted 
incorrectly, that is the role of the FCA. If Mr D wants to raise his concerns about the lack of 
regular statements, or whether  Phoenix  should  be required to keep records of mailings sent 
over 14 years ago he may wish to raise  this directly with the FCA. 
Having carefully considered this complaint I dont think Phoenix has acted incorrectly  or 
treated Mr D unfairly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint,
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5415062