K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Tesco  Underwriting Limited (TUL) has said unfairly that it wont  
meet a claim for storm damage  they made on their home insurance. 
 
background
Mr and Mrs C found tiles and other  debris from their roof on the floor after a storm in April 
2019. They  contacted TUL who sent a surveyor  to look at the damage. The report produced 
concluded that the roof hadnt been  maintained properly, and that although there may have 
been a storm  at the relevant time, it had simply highlighted existing damage.  TUL said it 
wouldnt meet the claim.
When Mr and Mrs C complained it said it would  look at any other evidence they had  such  
as a recent survey, as Mr and Mrs C hadnt been in the house for long.  Mr and Mrs C said 
they didnt have a survey   but they did send a quote from their builder about  the damage,  
and the builder also spoke directly  to TUL to say hed been  up on the roof (unlike, he 
thought, the surveyor,  whod  taken  photos using a pole camera) and that he thought  the roof 
was in good condition and the damage  was caused by the storm.
TUL didnt  change its mind so Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator initially agreed that TUL need  do no more,  but then reconsidered the 
evidence and said they thought TUL should  meet the claim. TUL disagrees  so Ive been  
asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to uphold  this complaint and Ill explain  why.
When I look at complaints about  claims for storm damage that have been declined by an 
insurer I consider three things. They are  was there a storm at the time, is the damage 
typical of the sort of damage caused  by storms and, often the most  difficult  point, was this 
particular damage  caused by the relevant storm. 
TUL acknowledged that there was a storm at the time, so I dont need to look at this point 
further.
The main  damage  dislodged  hip tiles  is the sort of damage sometimes seen  after storms, 
and the rest of the damage  the broken  tiles and damaged lead work and flat roof  seem  to 
be as a consequence of the main damage. Im satisfied this is storm damage.
The third point is the main  cause  of contention in this complaint. 
I think its fair for an insurer to rely on a report from a surveyor when deciding whether or not 
to meet  a claim. But its also fair for a consumer  to get their own assessment of what  
happened. If they differ, as they do here, its natural that each party  would think  their report  
the more accurate. If the parties  cant agree, I need  to look at both reports and say which Im 
more persuaded  by.
Ref: DRN58883862TUL sent a surveyor to look at the damage.  The surveyor  took photos using a camera  on a 
pole, and thought the damage might  have been caused by the storm. However, he thought 
the underlying  problem  was that the roof  in particular the mortar holding  the hip tiles  had 
deteriorated over time, and the storm simply highlighted this problem, rather than being  the 
immediate cause. TUL took this report into account  and said it wouldnt pay for the repairs as 
the cause of damage was wear and tear. The surveyor later said that there were signs  of 
different coloured  mortar where the hip tiles were  originally attached which  suggested work 
had previously been done on this part of the roof: he thought  that it indicated  there  could 
have been a problem with the original mortar. He thought this had crumbled, and sent a 
photo of some mortar in a valley to support this. And he said the roof had moss on it, and 
also that neither  the valley nor the flat roof he photographed looked well maintained. 
As Mr and Mrs C hadnt lived in the house  for very long, TUL asked if theyd had the roof 
surveyed when they bought the house.  Mr and Mrs C hadnt,  but they said they thought the 
roof had been in good condition  when  they bought it. The surveyor  responded to say that if 
they had had a survey, the issues would probably have been noticed. Im not going to give 
either comment much weight, as neither the surveyor nor Mr and Mrs C can be sure what  
the condition of the roof was when the house was bought.
Mr and Mrs C got a builder to come and look at the roof, and quote for the repairs.  He did 
that, and got much  closer to the damage  as he used ladders. He thought  the roof was 
generally in good condition, including  the valley and the flat roof, which  were only damaged 
because tiles etc had fallen on them. He spoke to TUL direct to emphasise  that he had 
looked more closely  at the damage  than the surveyor   and even offered to meet the 
surveyor on site if that would help. He pointed  out that he didnt need to argue that the roof 
was sound if it wasnt,  because he was going  to be paid to do the repairs whatever the result  
of the insurance  claim.
Ive looked closely  at the photos provided and the comments from both the surveyor  and the 
builder. Im more persuaded  by the information  from the builder, as he actually got on to the 
roof to look at the damage and the condition of the roof generally.  I did take into account  the 
comments from the surveyor that the mortar  had probably been patched  in the past  but 
that seems to me to show that the roof had been  maintained, rather  than left to deteriorate, 
so I dont think it shows the roof was in a poor state before the storm.
Im upholding this complaint, and TUL should  now meet this claim by reimbursing to Mr and 
Mrs C the cost of the repairs  theyve  had done,  if they provide the invoice. As theyve had to 
meet this cost themselves, theyve  been  out of pocket for some time. So TUL should add 
interest at the statutory  rate from the date Mr and Mrs C paid for the work to the date of 
refund.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Underwriting Limited should meet this 
claim. It should do that by reimbursing the amount Mr and Mrs C paid for the work, and add 
interest* at 8% simple per year from the date Mr and Mrs C paid the invoice to the date of 
reimbursement.
*HMRC may require Tesco Underwriting Limited to deduct tax from this interest  before 
paying Mr and Mrs C. If it does,  then the business must give Mr and Mrs C a tax certificate  
declaring the amount deducted if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN58883863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5888386