K821x#15complaint
C, a company, complains  about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to avoid its commercial  
property insurance  policy  from the start because of fraud. C is represented in this complaint 
by the owner,  Mr B.
background
In 2010, there was an escape of water  at Cs business premises  (a restaurant). Then  in 
2013, there was a power surge at Cs business premises.  
Mr B made claims on Cs behalf  for damage  to the premises and contents, as well as 
business interruption.
Aviva paid over £82,000 for the escape  of water  claim, and over £66,000  for the power surge 
claim. However, the parties couldnt  agree on any further payments  that may be due under 
both claims. Mr B therefore brought a complaint to this service on Cs behalf.
Since then,  matters have  moved on. Aviva  now considers that C has acted fraudulently in 
presenting the claim for the power surge. Its therefore invoked the fraud condition under the 
policy which  says that its entitled to avoid  the policy (cancel it from the start as if it had never  
existed). Aviva has also requested that C repay the amount it has paid towards both claims.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 February  2020.  My provisional  findings were:
Power surge claim
For me to conclude that C acted fraudulently, Id need to be persuaded that there was a 
dishonest attempt by C to deceive  Aviva. And that it did so in order to receive more  by way 
of settlement  of the claim than was otherwise  payable. 
Its not in dispute  that there  was a power surge  at Cs business  premises, or that this caused  
damage to electrical  appliances. I see that Aviva  arranged for an electrician to carry out an 
inspection on 2 July 2013, and it was found  that some  appliances were  damaged  by the 
power surge  - such as a fire alarm, a security  recorder, a fridge, hot cupboard, and laptop.  
Three years  later, Mr B told Aviva that Cs sign had also been damaged in the power  surge. 
He said a company  (that Ill call Company M) replaced the sign. He submitted an invoice for 
£5,360 from Company M, which said that it had been paid in cash.  
Avivas later investigations discovered  that the sign had actually  been  replaced by a different 
company (that Ill call Company E). Company E had received payment of £1,693.20 from C 
for the work.  They told Aviva the sign needed  to be replaced because of its age and 
condition, rather than damage caused  by a power  surge. Mr B hadnt  told Aviva about  
Company Es involvement in the sign replacement. Aviva also discovered  that Mr B had a 
long-standing relationship  with the director of Company M. It concluded  based  on this that C 
had made  a fraudulent claim.
Ive therefore  considered  all the evidence submitted by both Mr B and Aviva relating to the 
sign repairs/replacement. Whilst  I havent referred  to all the evidence here, Im satisfied Ive 
captured the essence of what  happened.
Ref: DRN57029892When Mr B submitted his claim  for the sign to Aviva, he provided a quote from Company  M 
dated 5 July 2013. The quote referred to the power  surge and detailed  the damage  to the 
sign. It said all internal  wiring and fittings would need to be replaced  as these were beyond 
economical repair. The quote said that for the sum of £4,921, Company M would attend the 
site to remove all existing  electrics, install parts (which were listed),  install  two fascia panels, 
produce a laminated  digital print,  install an aluminium box, and fix the external frame.  
Mr B then provided a second quote from Company M dated 5 October 2016. This referred to 
the previous quote of 5 July 2013,  and said that for the same  specifications,  the total price 
was £5,360. Aviva has provided the metadata for this document  which shows  it was created 
on 6 October 2016. The quote  was forwarded  to Aviva by Mr B the same day. 
Mr B later provided  Aviva  with an invoice dated  11 October 2016 from Company M. This said 
with the same specifications,  stated in the quotation, the total price including VAT: 
£5,360.00. There was a handwritten note on this invoice which said Cash payment of 
£5,360 received in full. It was signed by Company Ms director  with the date 21 October 
2016. 
I think it was reasonable  for Aviva to understand from the information  submitted by Mr B that 
the power surge had damaged the sign; Company M had carried out the repair  work; and 
that C had paid Company M £5,360 in cash for the work. 
Aviva has provided evidence from Company E. They say they were  approached by someone 
who worked at C (who we now know was Mr B) in September 2016 and asked to provide a 
quote for a replacement  sign.  They  attended the property on or around  22 September  2016 
and found that a new sign was needed  because the existing one was too large and had 
warped. Also the vinyl graphics were  of low quality and had peeled and shrunk, and the 
lighting system  had deteriorated through wear  and tear. They say Mr B didnt refer to a 
power surge.  
Company E quoted £1,693.20 for the repairs, and Mr B accepted this quote. They advised 
him they only needed a 40% deposit,  however he told them  the full amount would be paid. 
On 6 October 2016, Company E sent Mr B their invoice for £1,693.20. This was paid in full 
by Mr B the same day by bank transfer  from Cs bank  account. Company E then carried out 
the replacement  sign work on 19 October  2016. They  say the only electrical work they 
carried out was to connect  the new lighting system to the existing electrical  installation,  
which was properly functioning. 
A few days  later, Mr B emailed Company E and asked them to change  their invoice so that it 
was addressed to Company M. This was so that Company M could reclaim the VAT. 
Company E did so, though it says it wasnt aware  of the involvement  of anyone other than 
Mr B. 
We therefore know that Company E provided Mr B with an invoice for £1,693.20 on 
6 October 2016, and Mr B paid the full amount by bank transfer the same day. But Company  
M apparently  also created an invoice the same day (for £5,360)  which Mr B says he paid in 
cash. 
Aviva asked Mr B why hed paid Company  M £5,360 when hed already paid Company  E 
£1,693.20 by bank transfer to replace the sign. Initially,  he said Company M had given him 
the cash to pay Company  E as he was having money problems at the time. He then paid this 
back to Company M, and the additional amount  was paid because Company M had sent 
Ref: DRN57029893someone to initially  test the sign; theyd found Company E; and had also agreed  to provide a 
five-year guarantee for the work Company E had done. 
Ive looked at Cs bank statements from the relevant  date. I see there was over £20,000  in 
the account, which was more than enough to cover  Company Es invoice. This is also 
supported by Mr B paying Company E the full amount  for the work,  rather than the 40% 
deposit theyd  requested.  The bank  statements dont show any deposits for the £1,693.20 
that Mr B says Company M gave  him in order  to pay Company E. 
Aviva says it finds it difficult  to accept that one company would give a customer money to 
pay another company to do work. Or that one company would offer to provide a five-year 
guarantee on another companys work. I think Aviva makes reasonable points here. 
Since then,  Mr B has changed  some of his explanations. He says Company M did actually 
do work on the sign (on the electrics), and this work  took place in July 2013. And that 
Company Ms invoice  for £5,360 was for the entire job, which included the electrical work 
that had been carried out in 2013. He also says Company M subcontracted some of the 
repair work needed to Company E. But he maintains  that Company M paid him Company 
Es invoice  amount in full (by cash) and instructed him to pay Company  E. And he also says 
that he didnt organise the subcontractors,  and only corresponded with Company E because 
their staff couldnt understand Company Ms directors accent. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs explanations. Company E has confirmed they only dealt with 
him and had no dealings with Company M (apart from changing  their invoice so that it was 
addressed to Company M after Mr B had requested this). Mr B has also changed  his 
explanation about what happened, and hasnt  been  able to provide evidence to support his 
assertion that Company M paid him Company Es invoice amount, or why this was even 
necessary given that C had sufficient funds available at the time. 
Also, if Company  M did work on the sign in 2013,  I would have expected Mr B to have paid 
Company M at this time, rather  than three  years  later. I also understand that Company M 
arent electricians and havent  provided any electrical certificates for the work Mr B says was 
done. Finally, I see that when Mr B emailed Company  E in October 2016 (asking for it to 
reissue the invoice  in Company Ms name), he said that Company M would be carrying  out 
electrical and other work around  the sign to make  it brighter  with illuminated lights. This is at 
odds with his explanation  that Company M had already  carried  out the electrical work in 
2013. 
On balance, I think it was reasonable  for Aviva  to conclude that C made  a dishonest attempt 
to deceive it, in order to receive more by way of settlement than was otherwise payable.  A 
claim was submitted for a replacement sign three years after the power surge, yet the 
evidence from Company E is that the sign hadnt been damaged in the power surge  (or any 
other insured event). Although Mr B claimed  hed paid £5,360 to Company M for the 
replacement sign, he hasnt been  able to evidence this payment or any of the work  he says 
was carried out by Company M. Its also since been confirmed that Company E replaced the 
sign for £1,693.20.  That being  the case, I think Aviva was entitled  to conclude there had 
been fraud. 
The fraud condition  in the policy says that if a claim  is fraudulent,  then Aviva  will avoid the 
policy from the start of the policy or from the date of the claim, or it will avoid the claim.
Ref: DRN57029894Aviva took the decision to avoid the policy from the start. However, I dont think  this was fair. 
My view is that when a fraudulent claim is made, the insurer will be entitled to turn down the 
claim and void the policy  from the date of that claim. That being the case, I think Aviva  
should void the policy from the date of the power  surge claim.
Escape of water claim
Given that Ive found Aviva can void the policy from the date of the power surge claim, that 
means the policy was in place when the escape  of water event occurred, as this preceded  
the power surge. 
Business interruption
Although Aviva invoked the fraud condition based  on its findings relating to the power surge 
claim, it also says that C submitted false information  relating to the escape of water  claim, 
with the intention of exaggerating its claim for business interruption.  Ive therefore 
considered this. 
Mr B says the water damage affected  the lighting to the in-house dining area of the 
restaurant. And that this resulted in C losing many  customers, particularly in the evening.  
However, he says that C was able to continue catering  for takeaways and external catering 
events, and could  provide  in-house dining during the daytime at certain points of the year 
when there  was enough natural light in the restaurant. Mr B estimates  the total value of 
business interruption  to be over £400,000.
Aviva doesnt accept that Cs business  was interrupted to the extent that Mr B describes. It 
has referred to online  reviews from diners  at the restaurant, which it thinks  supports that C 
was able to continue trading fully during the relevant period. It has also made the point that 
C continued to receive  regular  payments during this time.  
Ive taken into account what Aviva says,  but I dont think  it has done enough to show that C 
fraudulently exaggerated the claim for business interruption.  The kitchen wasnt  affected,  
and so C was still able to serve  takeaway  food during  the relevant period, and some  in-
house dining  during the day. I dont think  the online reviews or continuing  card payments is 
enough evidence  for me to conclude that the claim was fraudulently exaggerated.
However, Aviva also says that C failed to mitigate  its loss for the business interruption,  due 
to the length of time it took C to notify  Aviva of the claim and to do the repairs. Im inclined to 
agree with Aviva on this point. Although the escape of water  apparently  happened  in August 
2010, this wasnt  reported to Aviva  until February  2012. Whilst I note Mr B says Cs broker 
was responsible for the delay, one of my ombudsman colleagues considered this, but found 
that the broker hadnt been at fault.  
Aviva has confirmed that although  the claim was reported to it in February 2012, Mr B didnt 
tell it at this time that trading was affected  due to the lack of lighting.  
The lighting  repairs  cost £2,570 to fix, but werent done until December 2012, despite the 
alleged interruption to the business. I understand C had the funds to pay for the repairs. 
The policy explains  that C was required  to tell Aviva immediately about  any event which  may 
result in a claim, and the failure  to do so means  it will lose its right to indemnity or payment 
for that claim. 
Ref: DRN57029895If C had notified  Aviva promptly of the claim (as its required to do under the policy), and 
arranged the repairs required  to the lighting, Aviva could have covered the cost of this and 
there would have been minimum  interruption to Cs business. As C didnt notify Aviva 
promptly, nor carry out the repairs for over two years, I think  Aviva was disadvantaged as a 
result and was therefore entitled to refuse to pay anything for business interruption. 
Contents repairs/replacement
C is also claiming for damage  to contents  caused  by the escape of water. Unfortunately,  C 
doesnt have any evidence of the damage  that its claiming for. 
It isnt in dispute that there was an escape  of water. Ive seen a letter provided by an 
electrician who visited the restaurant on 5 August 2010. He said the bar area was severely 
flooded and he saw a number of items damaged by water - including a TV, laptop, speakers, 
ice maker, coffee machine and telephone.  Ive also seen  a letter  written  by a local 
environmental health officer who said he also visited the restaurant on 5 August 2010. Whilst 
the letter doesnt mention  the escape  of water (only  that the dishwasher had been  exposed 
to foul water), he did say that in the cellar he saw a water damaged wooden platform  and 
some soiled garments.
As part of the claim, Mr B has submitted invoices from a company (that Ill call Company J) 
for restoration/repairs to contents in the restaurant  such  as a clock, a dresser,  bar shelf, 
and tables and chairs. And hes submitted  an invoice from Company M for replacement 
wooden platforms.  Mr B has also provided various other invoices, but I wont  detail them  all 
here. 
Aviva has a number of concerns about the invoices submitted. Some  of those are: -
-Mr B submitted an invoice for a laptop costing over £1,500. However, he hasnt been 
able to show that C owned a similar laptop before  the escape of water.   
-Mr B said a damaged  picture needed to be sent abroad to be restored, however he 
hasnt been able to provide evidence that the picture was transported to the country 
he says it was sent, or that payment was made for the restoration. Aviva  doesnt 
think the evidence  Mr B has submitted from the company that apparently  carried  out 
the restoration is legitimate. And he wont allow the picture to be inspected.  
-C has claimed nearly £50,000  for replacement platforms (provided by Company M) 
that Mr B says were  damaged by the water. However, he didnt tell Aviva about  this 
damage until 2016, which was four years after he first notified Aviva of the claim.  He 
disposed of the platforms without Avivas approval  and didnt take any pictures  of the 
damage.
It seems  Avivas  other  concerns centre around  the invoices provided by Company M and 
Company J. Ive addressed that below.  However,  Mr B has provided invoices from other 
companies - for example,  to redecorate the restaurant, restore a grandfather clock etc. It 
appears these invoices are from legitimate businesses, and I understand Aviva hasnt 
expressed concerns  over those (apart from the laptop and the picture  restoration  that Ive 
detailed above) and payments have been  made  under  the claim in relation  to those invoices. 
However, if it does have any remaining concerns about invoices provided  by those 
businesses, it should detail these in response to this provisional decision.
Ref: DRN57029896Avivas concerns with the invoices provided  by Company M and Company J is that the 
companies share the same director (with whom Mr B has a long-standing relationship). And 
that Company  M apparently provided  Mr B with invoices  relating to the power  surge claim for 
work it didnt  do.
I can understand Avivas  concerns, However,  whilst Ive found that C presented a fraudulent 
claim in relation to the power surge  claim (which included invoices from Company M for work 
it didnt do), that doesnt necessarily mean that all the invoices provided by Company M and 
Company J werent  genuine. Though I do think it means that C needs  to provide additional 
evidence of ownership/loss,  rather than the invoices from Company  M/Company J alone.
With that in mind, I dont  think C has provided  enough evidence  for any further payments to 
be made at present. Ill explain  why.
Mr B explains that when C took on the lease for the restaurant, it was effectively an empty 
shell. And that extensive refurbishment works were done to the premises in 2010 before  C 
opened the restaurant. He says Company J did the original fit out works  at the premises  and 
supplied the majority of the contents  - and that this cost around £200,000. Hes provided  a 
few invoices from Company J to support  this.
Aviva makes  the point  that Mr B hasnt  been able to provide any financial evidence of the 
£200,000 payment he says was made to Company J. Also,  Cs annual  accounts ending in 
2010 show no assets, and the accounts ending in 2011 only show  assets of around £70,000. 
Because of this, Aviva doesnt think C can show that the items its claiming for were assets 
owned by it. This includes the platforms.
I can appreciate Avivas concerns. Mr B cant provide evidence of the damage  being claimed 
for, and there are understandable concerns over the validity of Company M/Company Js 
invoices. That being the case, I think its reasonable to expect Mr B to be able to show, at 
the very least,  that the items  subject  to the claim were owned by C. 
Ideally, Mr B should provide Aviva with evidence  from Company J to show what  purchases 
were made for the original  fit out of the restaurant. However, I appreciate  this happened 
around 10 years ago, so Company J may not have  kept this information.  
Alternatively, Mr B could provide Aviva with financial evidence that payments were made to 
Company J for the fit out. Although Mr B says the £200,000 for the fit out was paid to 
Company J in cash, Id expect to see cash withdrawals to reflect this, given the large  
amount. However,  if Mr B can provide bank statements from Company J showing that it 
deposited cash in line with amount C says it paid Company J, I think this would also be 
sufficient evidence that C probably  did spend this money on fitting  out the restaurant as Mr B 
says, which  would include the platforms.
If Mr B is able to provide  the above evidence to Aviva,  I think Aviva ought  to settle the 
remaining invoices for the repairs/replacement of contents in the restaurant, with the 
exception of the laptop and the damaged picture.  
I think its reasonable for Aviva to require Mr B to provide evidence  that C owned a similar 
laptop prior to the escape of water. If he can do so, Aviva should settle this claim.
Although Aviva has concerns over the evidence submitted relating to the painting  
restoration, I think that so long as Mr B can show that the painting  was transported abroad 
Ref: DRN57029897and that he paid for the restoration, then I think its reasonable  to assume the painting  was 
restored where Mr B says it was. If Mr B can provide Aviva with this evidence, it should also 
settle this claim.
Repairs/replacement to premises
C is also claiming for damage  to the premises.  Mr B has submitted invoices from Company 
M and Company  J for repairs to pipework, floorboards, joists,  plastering, wiring, and 
replacing a damaged ceiling (as well as other building repairs). 
As C is the leaseholder, Aviva  thinks the repairs to the premises should have been the 
responsibility of either the landlord  or the buildings insurer. 
I agree  with Aviva here. Unfortunately, Mr B has refused  permission for Aviva to correspond  
with these parties, so it hasnt been  able to establish who was responsible for the repairs.  If 
Mr B wants  Aviva  to consider this aspect of Cs claim further,  he should allow it permission to 
correspond with the landlord and/or the buildings insurer  about the matter. 
Once Aviva  has done so, if its able to confirm that C was responsible for putting right this 
damage, then Aviva  should reimburse  C for this part of the claim. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make  before I 
reached a final decision.  
Aviva responded to say:
It agreed with my findings  in respect  of the power surge,  however it said the fraud  
condition allowed it to choose what action to take in the event that a fraudulent  claim 
is made. It says it chose to avoid  the policy from inception, which  meant there would 
have been no cover for the earlier escape  of water claim. It disagrees with my view 
that it should only be able to void the policy from the date of the power  surge claim.
It has tried to obtain necessary information from Mr B relating to the escape of water  
claim, but he has put up spurious  excuses  to avoid  providing  the evidence.  In light of 
this, it says there seems little reason to believe that Mr B will provide the necessary 
evidence and allow the matter to be concluded.
I had invited Mr B to provide documents evidencing the sums spent on the fit out of 
the restaurant, and that if he did so, it should  pay the claim.  It says it assumes I 
would accept that it would have to be satisfied that such documents  were authentic 
and contemporaneous.
Given the repeated  and longstanding failure of Mr B to provide evidence  when 
requested, it thinks a line should  be drawn  and the complaint rejected in full. 
Mr B, on behalf of C, provided a lengthy submission  in response. The main points he made  
were:
He wants me to disregard any comments he made during a meeting with Aviva and 
this service at this services offices  in April 2017.
He has found  a failure report provided by an electrician from 2013, related to the 
electrics. He says this electrician was Company  Ms sub-contractor  and shows the 
sign was damaged by the power  surge.
Ref: DRN57029898He has provided  a contract between C and Company M, which he says supports that 
he was able to arrange and pay for sub-contractors on Company Ms behalf.
He paid off Company  Ms invoice for £5,360 before he received a payment from 
Aviva. 
Company Es assertion that the sign wasnt damaged  by a power surge is false and a 
fabrication. The contract between  C and Company M was for signage  and 
Company M as the main  contractor chose to sub-contract part of the contract to 
Company E. 
Company M used  Cs computer at Cs business  premises to generate quotes and 
invoices.
He has not changed  his explanations for events, however because  of health 
problems, he has difficulty remembering what happened.
Company M instructed him to pay Company E £1,693.20  for logistical reasons.
Although Company  E said the signs electrical  installation was properly functioning 
when they replaced the sign in October 2016,  Company M had arranged  for the sign 
to be connected  to the electrics  just before the sign was installed by Company E. 
He paid Company  M the £5,360 in cash instalments, with £900 paid in 2013  and the 
rest in October 2016. 
By 6 October 2016, Mr B had paid Company M £2,850 in instalments towards the 
£5,360 invoice, which was enough to cover the Company Es invoice of £1,693.20. 
Therefore, C didnt have to pay for the replacement sign work carried  out by 
Company E. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Power surge
Mr B has asked  me to disregard any comments made during a meeting that took place  with 
him, Aviva, and this service in 2017. He says he didnt know  what  questions  he would be 
asked by Aviva, and so he was unprepared for the meeting. 
I wasnt present at the meeting in question and have only read a transcript, but given that the 
parties did discuss various aspects of the claims,  Im satisfied it would be appropriate for me 
to consider what was said. I appreciate that Mr B may not have been able to remember 
everything about the claims, and I note that he made this clear  during the meeting. Ive only 
taken into account  the information  he was able to recall, and commented upon.  
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought it had been  reasonable for Aviva to 
conclude that C made  a dishonest attempt to deceive it, in order  to receive more  by way of 
settlement than was otherwise payable. I reached that conclusion because  the evidence  
from Company E didnt  support  that the damage to the sign that it replaced was caused by a 
power surge  and, although Mr B said hed paid £5,360 to Company M for the replacement 
sign, he wasnt able to evidence this payment or any of the work  he says was carried out by 
Company M. 
Mr B has provided explanations to answer the points I made in my provisional  decision, as 
well as some  new evidence. By way of new evidence,  hes provided an electrical report 
carried out by an electrician dated  15 July 2013,  as well as a contract  between  him and 
Company M from 2013. 
Ref: DRN57029899The electrical report confirms an inspection took place of the fixed electrical wiring and 
appliances on 15 July 2013 after the power  surge to verify the electrical installation.  The 
electrician concluded  that various electrical components  were  damaged,  and in respect  of 
the front sign, he said the lighting and accessories were burnt out.
Mr B says he provided the above report to Avivas  loss adjuster.  Weve checked with Aviva 
and it has no record of Mr B previously providing  the above  report.  Its not clear why it took 
so long for Mr B to provide the report, but I accept that based  on this report,  the signs 
electrics were damaged  by the power surge.  
However, I still havent seen any evidence of when the signs  electrics  were actually fixed. 
This work was part of Company Ms quote for £5,360, but Mr B still hasnt provided any 
electrical certificates confirming when  the repair work was carried out. When Company E 
replaced the sign, they said the electrics were  working. Ive noted Mr Bs explanation that 
Company M had apparently arranged for the sign to be re-connected to the electrics just 
before the sign was installed. Though given that the lighting and accessories had apparently  
burnt out, Im not sure how the sign could have been reconnected as Mr B says.  
In any event, although Ive accepted that the signs electrics were damaged in the power 
surge, I dont  think Mr B has shown that the entire sign needed to be replaced because of 
that event. Company E said that they replaced the sign because: - the existing  one was too 
large and had warped, the vinyl graphics were of low quality and had peeled and shrunk; 
and the lighting  system  had deteriorated  through wear and tear. It didnt say any of the sign 
needed replacing because of damage that might be attributed to a power  surge (or another  
insured event).  Im satisfied, based  on Company  Es evidence, that it needed  to replace the 
sign because of wear  and tear rather than the power surge. 
Mr B still maintains that Company M sub-contracted  work  on the sign to Company E, though 
he now says Company M paid him the £1,693.20  before  he made this payment to 
Company E. An email  from Company M says it paid him this amount in cash because it was 
working at his premises that day, and it asked  him to make the payment to Company E 
through Cs bank  account. 
If Company M had sub-contracted the work to Company E, then at the very least Id expect 
Company E to be aware  of this. I also wouldve expected Company M to make the payment 
to Company E itself, rather than pay the money  to its client and then expect its client to make 
the payment (though theres still no financial evidence to support that Company M did make 
a payment of £1,693.20 to C). 
 
Furthermore, according to Mr B, hed only paid Company  M £2,850 (in cash) out of the 
£5,360 owed to it at the time he paid Company Es invoice of £1,693.20 on 6 October 2016. 
He says further cash payments were made to Company M in October  2016  with the final 
payment of £1,910 paid to it on 23 October 2016.  Though if that were  the case,  Id have 
expected Company M to have deducted  the £1,693.20  from the outstanding monies that C 
owed, and so it seems odd for Company M to pay Mr B this figure so that he could then pay 
Company E.
Also, the invoices  from Company M dont support that C paid the £5,360 by way of 
instalments. One invoice  dated 11 October 2016  said a cash payment of £5,360 was 
received in full. This doesnt  accord with Mr Bs explanation that he paid £900  in 2013, or 
that the final payment of £1,910 was made on 23 October 2016, which was after the invoice 
Ref: DRN570298910of 11 October 2016. Im therefore not satisfied that Mr B has shown  that C paid Company M 
£5,360 for work on the sign. And the only evidence that Company M did any work on the 
sign was when it arranged  for an electrician to check the electrics  at Cs property in July 
2013, and one of those  checks included  the sign.  
Mr B has provided a contract  between C and Company M from 2013 which says that C can 
arrange sub-contractors on Company  Ms behalf.  I find this odd. My understanding of sub-
contracting is that even if a customer chooses the sub-contractor, the appointment of that 
sub-contractor is done by the main  contractor. That didnt happen here. Mr B arranged for 
Company E to do the work, and paid Company E himself. Consequently,  theres  no evidence 
of Company Ms involvement in the appointment of Company E to replace the sign, and so I 
dont think Mr B has shown that Company M did sub-contract any of the work to Company E.
Given the conflicting statements and lack of evidence  to support Mr Bs assertion that he 
paid Company M £5,360 for work  on the sign, or that the sign needed replacing because of 
the power surge, I remain satisfied it was appropriate for Aviva to conclude that Mr B, on 
behalf of C, had made a dishonest attempt to deceive Aviva in order to receive more by way 
of settlement  than should have been  payable.
Other issues
Aviva says the fraud condition allows it to choose  what action to take in the event of a 
fraudulent claim being made. It therefore disagrees with my view that the policy  should  be 
voided from the date of the power  surge  claim, and instead maintains that it should be 
voided from the date the policy started. 
Ive thought carefully about what Aviva has said. However, I think  the principles set out in the 
Insurance Act 2015  ought to apply here, rather than the policy terms. The Act says that if the 
insured makes a fraudulent claim, the insurer may treat the contract as having  been 
terminated with effect  from the time of the fraudulent act, and that this does not affect the 
rights and obligations of the parties with respect to a relevant event occurring  before  the time 
of the fraudulent act. 
I had said in my provisional decision that Aviva should void the policy from the date of the 
power surge  claim - though based on the Act, the policy should be voided from the date of 
the fraudulent  act (the fraudulent act being  the date Mr B provided Aviva with an invoice 
which stated hed paid £5,360 for repairs to the sign). However, I dont think  this makes  a 
difference to the matter as the Act says the insurer is not liable  to pay the claim. That means 
the entire power surge  claim, and so it makes  no difference  to C whether the policy  is voided  
from the date of the power surge claim,  or the date of the fraudulent act.
Mr B hasnt provided any further evidence or comments on the escape of water claim.  I 
therefore see no reason  to alter my provisional findings in this respect. I will allow  him further 
time to provide  the evidence  to Aviva Ive referred  to in my provisional decision,  but he 
should do so within one month  of accepting this final decision (if he does accept it). I say that 
because of the length of time Mr B has already had to provide evidence to support his claim. 
If he doesnt provide  the necessary evidence to Aviva in that time, then Aviva does not need 
to accept the evidence or comply with my decision.
Aviva has asked if I accept it would need to be satisfied  any further documents provided by 
Mr B are authentic before complying with my decision, and I can confirm that is the case. 
Ref: DRN570298911my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. However, the below evidence  should 
be provided to Aviva  Insurance Limited  within one month of the date C accepts this final 
decision (if it is accepted), in order for Aviva  to comply with my decision. 
If C is able to evidence  (in the way that Ive described above) that it spent the money  it says 
it did on fitting out the restaurant, then Aviva  should settle the remaining invoices for 
repairs/replacement of the contents,  with the exception of the laptop and picture.
If C can provide evidence that it owned a similar  laptop before the escape of water,  then 
Aviva should  settle this part of the claim. 
If C can provide evidence that the picture was transported abroad to be repaired,  and that it 
paid for the transportation and the restoration,  then Aviva should settle this part of the claim.
If C allows Aviva to correspond with the landlord and/or buildings insurer, and Aviva is able 
to establish that C was responsible for the repairs to the premises, then Aviva  should settle 
this part of the claim.
However, as Ive found that Aviva was entitled  to void the policy from the date of the power 
surge claim, it can offset any settlement already  paid in relation to the power surge claim 
from any further payments that may be due under the escape  of water claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5702989