K822xthe complaint
Mrs G says TSB Bank  plcs IT problems  at the end of April 2018 had an impact on her. She 
says the IT issues meant  a payment to one of her creditors was missed,  and that this 
affected her ability  to apply for the mortgage  she wanted. She feels  she has lost out 
financially as a result.
what happened
In March 2018 Mrs G applied for a mortgage on a property  she was intending to buy. She 
was approved for a 95% loan to value mortgage,  but unfortunately the sale fell through.  Her 
mortgage lender  said the offer of loan would remain valid, and that when Mrs G found  a new 
property they would reassess the offer in light of the new property details. They  said they 
would also carry out another  credit score check at that stage. 
Mrs G was due to make a payment to a catalogue  account she had in May 2018. Because  of 
TSBs IT issues the payment failed,  but Mrs G wasnt aware this had happened. The 
catalogue company  initially  recorded  this missed payment  on Mrs Gs credit file  but 
removed it again  in late June 2018.
Mrs G found a new property, and her mortgage lender reassessed its loan offer on 7 June 
2018. Having  done so, it said it was no longer  willing to offer Mrs G a 95% mortgage,  it said 
it could now only offer her a 90% mortgage.
Mrs G was keen not to lose the property, so she agreed to the 90% mortgage and borrowed 
funds from her father to make up the difference in the deposit.  Mrs G then took out a 
personal loan with TSB to repay her father. Mrs G says that having to repay the additional 
money over four years,  rather  than over the full term of her mortgage, has put her in a 
difficult financial position, and she would like to be compensated for this.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. He thought TSB should  pay Mrs G £300 for the 
trouble and upset  caused to her by the payment to her catalogue  company  failing.  But he 
didnt think he could  fairly conclude that this payment alone was responsible for Mrs Gs 
mortgage lenders  decision not to offer her a 95% mortgage.
Mrs G didnt think this was fair, so the case has been passed  to me to decide.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think £300 compensation is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Mrs G has given us a full copy  of her credit  file, along with details of how her credit score 
changed over the period in question. Shes also given us an email from her mortgage lender. 
I appreciate Mrs G taking the time to seek out these documents, but having looked carefully 
at what shes given  us, I still dont think I can fairly say that the mortgage lenders decision 
was likely to have been based  solely on the missing payment recorded on her credit file.
The mortgage lender has said the following in its email to Mrs G:
Ref: DRN55120552We received a mortgage application  from you 29/3/18.  We agreed  a Mortgage for you on 
this property on a 95% Loan to Value basis.
Following a call from your Broker 25/5/18 confirming a change of property purchase details, 
your application  was updated  to reflect this, however, when your application was re-
assessed on 7/6/18, as per our underwriting process, it was declined on a 95% Loan to 
value basis due to a failed credit score. 
Your application was then reassessed on a Loan to Value  of 90% and agreed  on 19/6/18.
Mrs Gs lender hasnt specifically said what information changed to make Mrs Gs application 
fail. I can understand  why Mrs G has taken  the lenders email to mean  the change in the 
credit score on her credit report  is the reason why the 95% mortgage was declined. But a 
borrowers credit report isnt the only thing a business will look at when scoring an 
application for lending. All lenders have their own scoring process  which is generally 
confidential and not something  they share more widely. That process  does take account of 
information on the borrowers  credit report,  including things like the credit score and missed 
payments  but it would  also include information like the overall level of borrowing someone  
has and their available credit on the credit cards they hold. 
For a mortgage, a lender would typically also take into account  the details of the property 
being mortgaged. I note that Mrs Gs mortgage  broker has said the new property was being  
bought at around £7,000  above its market value. This kind of thing can also affect a lenders 
willingness to provide a mortgage, particularly when its at a high loan to value.
So, with what Ive seen,  I dont think I can fairly  say that the single  missed  payment to Mrs  
Gs catalogue account is the sole reason for her 95% mortgage being declined.  
I also have to bear in mind that, while Mrs G is now having to repay the additional  capital she 
required for her deposit over a shorter period, this will almost  certainly  mean she pays  less 
interest on that amount than if it had been added to her much longer  term mortgage. So,  
overall, Mrs G is unlikely  to lose out financially from this. 
I do appreciate that the whole situation  has been  very upsetting  for Mrs G at what Im sure 
was already a very stressful time.  And I know this will be disappointing for Mrs G, but taking 
everything into account, I think the compensation of £300 the adjudicator  has already 
recommended  and TSB has agreed to  is a fair amount of compensation for what  went 
wrong here.  
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mrs G £300  for the impact  the IT issues had;
Ref: DRN55120553my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5512055