K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained that the advice from Tilney Financial Planning Limited (Tilney) to 
transfer pension  benefits from an occupational pension  scheme (OPS) to a self invested  
personal pension  (SIPP)  was based  on incorrect transfer values. 
background
Mrs H sought advice  from Tilney  about  deferred  benefits in three OPS. Her complaint  
concerns Tilneys advice  in respect  of one of those OPS. 
Im not going  to set the facts and background in detail as these are known to the parties and 
arent in dispute.  But, in brief, Mrs H joined the OPS that is the subject of this complaint in 
July 1997 and left in October 2000. She was in the Defined Contribution  (DC) section of the 
plan until she was 30 and she then accrued benefits  in the Defined Benefit (DB) section of 
the plan. The DC section was a money  purchase arrangement contracted out on a GMP 
(Guaranteed Minimum Pension)/RST (Reference  Scheme Test) underpin basis  with a 
normal retirement age of 60.
A cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was issued  by the OPS  administrators on 31 May 
2017, guaranteed until 30 August  2017. The total value was £92,851.83. Of that £73,141.87 
related to the (guaranteed) DB benefits  and £19,709.96 to the DC benefits (described as 
variable in line with market conditions).
On 10 July 2017 Tilney  received a DC benefit  statement from the OPS  scheme  
administrators. It showed the value of those  benefits  as £31,991.63 as at 31 December  
2016. The scheme administrators said the value of the Mrs Hs benefits  in the DB section of 
the plan would follow shortly under separate cover. 
Tilneys advice to Mrs H was on the basis that the value of her DB benefits was £92,852 and 
£31,991.63 for her DC benefits.  Tilney  recommended that Mrs H transfer.  
Mrs H accepted the advice and the transfer  went  ahead.  A transfer  value of £94,624.59  was 
paid into Mrs Hs SIPP in early September  2017. She queried it. Tilney checked  with the 
OPS administrators who initially said the transfer  value for the DC benefits  would  follow 
shortly. But they later said that there were no further  sums to be transferred.
Tilney considers the information provided  by the OPS administrators was contradictory. But 
Tilney upheld Mrs Hs complaint on the basis that Tilney should  have  done  more to verify  the 
information provided. And it offered  £300  to compensate  Mrs H for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered. But Tilney said the advice to transfer was suitable.  The 
rationale was to provide greater flexibility, greater tax efficiency and greater lump  sum death 
benefits.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with that outcome and referred her complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators considered the complaint and upheld it. In summary she said:
Tilney had accepted  it ought to have done  more to verify  that the information was 
correct. Mrs Hs decision to transfer was based on incorrect  information. 
As to the suitability  of the advice  to transfer,  COBS (Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook) 19.1.6R said that, when advising a retail client who was a member of a 
DB OPS,  a firm should start by assuming that a transfer wont be suitable.  
Ref: DRN56764572Had the CY been correctly calculated, its likely to have been much higher  than the 
incorrect figure of 6.65%,  which  took into account  the DC benefits  which  represented 
around 1/3rd of the total transfer  value. 
Mrs Hs attitude to risk (ATR) was medium to high. But just because she may have 
been willing  to take a significant risk didnt mean the advice to transfer was suitable. 
Or that, even if she was comfortable  taking significant risk, she had the capacity to do 
so. 
Tilney had used growth rates in its illustrations of low (2%) mid (5%)  and high (8%).  
The critical yield (CY) quoted of 6.65% fell within the mid and high rates.  A re-
calculated CY using the correct figures  was likely to be much higher than 6.65% and 
could exceed  8%. That rate of growth would need to be met year on year for over ten 
years, just to match the benefits that Mrs H was guaranteed to receive from the OPS. 
For the transfer to be beneficial  the level of growth would have to exceed  the CY.
Mrs H did have two other DB schemes that she was transferring to the SIPP  at the 
same time. The CYs for those transfers at age 60 were 8.79% and 11.72%. That,  
and her other SIPP, meant she was already taking a significant  degree of risk with 
her pension  planning.
Mrs H was 48 at the time of the advice. She was unemployed and not looking  to 
return to work. She had some  savings but some existing liabilities too. Shed be 
relying on her portfolio  of pensions to support her during retirement. 
The OPS benefited from guaranteed growth.  Ms H could  have retained  the benefits  
and decided closer  to her retirement what she wanted to do. Given the high CY and 
the time left until retirement, there wasnt a reasonable prospect that the transfer  
would produce  greater benefits  than those Mrs H was entitled to from the OPS.   
Mrs Hs objectives were  noted.  But it wasnt reasonable to conclude that the transfer 
was in her best interests. There wasnt a reasonable prospect that the transfer would 
produce benefits in excess  of those Mrs H was entitled to from the OPS. 
Tilney didnt accept the adjudicators view. In summary Tilney  said:   
Mrs H has financial services qualifications  and had been employed  as a financial 
adviser for, in total, fourteen years. As part of her role she was authorised  to advise  
on OPS transfers. Because of her knowledge  and experience Tilney discounted its 
fee. Mrs H had sufficient knowledge to fully understand her pensions and the advice 
she was given.  
Tilney referred to Mrs Hs stated goals. Her most important objectives were  to move 
her pensions  so there was greater flexibility in respect of death benefits  and to be 
able to reduce  the impact of Inheritance Tax on her assets. 
Tilney made a number  of comments about  Mrs Hs ATR and her capacity to take risk. 
Tilney didnt think Mrs H was under  the impression that, if she transferred, there  was 
no possibility that she might end up worse  off. 
The CY quoted in the suitability report wasnt accurate.  The fund value used included 
the DC and not just the DB benefits. But the recommendation to transfer  wasnt 
based on the CY required to match the benefits  being given up. Tilneys analysis 
concluded that the CY was 6.5% and this was unlikely to be achieved. Considering 
the CY in isolation Tilney  would  recommend retaining the OPS benefits. 
It seems  Mrs H had said she wanted more control over when  she could take her 
benefits and the potential  to pass on any unspent pension on her death. But only if 
she wasnt worse off. Tilney said Mrs H would reasonably have understood that the 
CY quoted wasnt  achievable. So it wasnt the case that shed only have  made the 
transfer if there was no possibility that shed be worse off. 
Ref: DRN56764573The adjudicator  had said Mrs H was unemployed  at the time with some  savings.  That 
didnt accurately reflect Mrs Hs personal  circumstances  and as set out in the advice 
letter. Shed decided to give up work. She and her husband had substantial  assets.  
In particular, his income  was recorded as £147,500.  
The adjudicator shared  Tilneys comments with Mrs H. She said shed stopped working (and 
hadnt returned since)  in June 2014  which was more  than three  years  before she sought 
advice from Tilney. By then, given  how quickly pensions  legislation and regulations change,  
her knowledge  was out of date. And because of that she and her husband pay a monthly fee 
(which isnt discounted)  to Tilney to ensure that their financial plans  are kept on track. It 
wasnt acceptable, even  if the fee had been reduced, for Tilney  to have provided incorrect  
information (both as to the transfer value and the CY). Mrs H produced some emails  with 
Tilney setting out the scope of the advice. 
The adjudicator considered the further information  that had been provided.  But she still 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. Although Mrs H had relevant qualifications and 
experience she was still entitled to rely on the information she received from Tilney  which  
was incorrect. Mrs H was expecting to receive  around £30,000  more  than she got. The 
adjudicator wasnt  persuaded that, if Mrs H had been given  the correct  information, shed still 
have transferred. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide. Im 
sorry that there has been some delay in reaching this final stage of our process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive paid particular  attention to what Tilney has said in response  to the adjudicators  view.  
But I still think the complaint should be upheld. I agree with the reasons given by the 
adjudicator. Ive added some  comments in response to the points made by Tilney. 
I agree  that Mrs H, as a qualified financial adviser,  would have had a better understanding  
than most  about pensions  generally and shed have  understood the advice Tilney  gave.  But I 
also bear in mind what Mrs H has said about  her knowledge being  out of date. I think  thats a 
fair point,  especially given the pension  freedoms reforms introduced in April 2015.  
I dont think the fact that Mrs H may have received a reduced  fee is relevant. Mrs H had 
gone to Tilney for professional advice. She was entitled to expect the advice to be accurate 
as shed be relying on it in making a decision about whether to transfer. 
The point is, and as Tilney accepts, the advice was flawed. The CY, which  is invariably an 
important factor in considering whether to transfer,  was wrong and understated. The issue 
isnt whether Mrs H understood Tilneys advice but whether shed have made the same  
decision had she been given the right information. 
Shes said shed  have thought again. I dont think thats implausible. Shes said she was 
expecting around  £30,000 more to be transferred. The CY quoted (6.5%) seemed  high but 
she was told that CETVs  were at a historic  all time high and in future the CY would be much  
higher. If the correct  CY had been  quoted that would likely have changed her decision to 
transfer. 
Ref: DRN56764574 
The CY indicates whether the CETV offered is good  value for money. A high CY would 
suggest that the CETV offered is poor value in return  for the benefits  being given up in the 
OPS. I think thats an important consideration, regardless of any other stated  objectives.  
Tilney has referred to Mrs Hs recorded goals.  But shes told us, although  she wanted more  
control over when she could take her benefits  and that she wanted to pass  on any surplus to 
her husband  and/or  children, that was only provided she wasnt  worse  off as result  of the 
transfer.
I take Tilneys point that Mrs H wasnt led to believe  that there was no possibility that she 
may end up worse off if she transferred. And I think,  even based on the incorrect  and lower 
CY quoted,  Mrs H wouldve known that rate of growth might not be achievable and so she 
could end up worse  off, although her other  objectives, such as flexibility  and death  benefits 
would be met. 
But I think theres an issue about the likelihood  of her being worse  off. The CY was 
understated. The correct CY would have shown that her fund would need to grow  at a 
greater rate just to match the benefits  being given up in the OPS. I think that could have put 
a different light on the transfer. Even if the transfer wasnt recommended on the basis  that 
the CY was likely to be met, the CY and the fact that it was incorrect is still an important  
issue. As Ive said its an indicator of whether the CETV offered is good value. The higher 
the CY, the more risk that it wont be achievable.  
Mrs H may have  been prepared to transfer  other OPS  benefits even though  the CY was 
what might  be regarded  as high. But that doesnt  mean shed have necessarily reached the 
same decision  in respect of the OPS benefits which are the subject of this complaint and if 
shed have been given the correct information.  Shes said shed  have reconsidered if shed 
been given the correct  advice. I dont see any real reason  to doubt that and when theres  no 
dispute that Tilneys  advice was based on an inflated transfer value and the wrong, 
understated, CY. That meant Mrs H wasnt in a position to make a properly  informed 
decision.  
I agree  that the complaint should be upheld. Tilney  must redress  Mrs H as recommended by 
the adjudicator.  Ive repeated that here.   
Tilney should undertake  a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology,
as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out using the most  recent financial assumptions
published by the FCA at the date of the actual calculation. Tilney  may wish to contact the
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain  Mrs Hs contribution history to
the State  Earnings Related Pension  Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These  details should then
be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the
impact of leaving the occupational scheme  on Mrs Hs SERPS/S2P  entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid into Mrs Hs 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications, it
Ref: DRN56764575should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a deduction to reflect the rate of 
income tax Mrs H is likely  to pay in retirement. This is because the payment would otherwise 
have been used to provide pension benefits, which would  have  been  taxed according to her 
likely tax paying status in retirement,  presumably 20%. 
Tilney has offered to pay Mrs H £200  for distress  and inconvenience. I think  thats fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Tilney Financial Planning Limited must redress  Mrs H as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5676457