K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains, with the help of her father, that after she used the switching service of the 
Bank of Scotland Plc, it rejected a payment made  by her father  into her old account with 
another bank.
background
On 8 July 2019 I issued  a provisional decision saying that subject  to any further comments 
or evidence  from Miss M or Bank of Scotland, I intended to uphold this complaint. I outlined 
the background of Miss Ms complaint  as follows: 
Miss M says the terms and conditions of Bank of Scotlands switching service guarantee that 
for three years after the switch date the old bank will redirect  received payments to her new 
account. But it rejected  a payment her father  made into her old account.  And when he 
complained it was rude to him.
Bank of Scotland said it hadnt  done  anything wrong. It said Miss Ms father  was prevented  
from making the payment to her switched-out  account by his own bank. And it could  see her 
father had made a successful payment to Miss Ms account the following day using another  
account.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Bank  of Scotland had done anything wrong as it was Miss Ms 
fathers bank that hadnt sent the switched payment to her new account. And she said she 
couldnt consider  Bank of Scotlands  customer service towards her father.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings based on the evidence at the time were as follows:
The Current  Account Switch Guarantee means Miss Ms new bank shouldve taken care of 
closing her old account, moving  her balance and switching her payments. Any payments that 
continue to be made to her old account  should  be automatically directed  to her new account. 
And that should  continue for three years. There are some exceptions to this but Im satisfied 
they dont apply here.
But Miss Ms fathers payment wasnt automatically  directed. Bank  of Scotland  told us it 
hadnt failed to re-direct  payments as per the switching agreement  as the payment was not 
actually made. Miss Ms father was prevented from making the payment to her switched-out 
account by his own bank
But I dont think thats a satisfactory  response to Miss Ms complaint. In coming to that 
decision Ive looked  at Bank  of Scotlands  20 page leaflet called Get switched-on. Make  the 
move.
Ref: DRN51890502At page  8 it says this For at least three  years  after your switch, payments  sent to or 
requested from your old account  will be redirected  to your new account.  And section 16 on 
page 11 says Closure of the old account  is part of the Current Account Switch Service  
process. This allows any payments made to your old account to be automatically redirected  
to your new account.  
It has the Current Account  Switch  Guarantee on page  13 which says As your new current-
account provider  we offer the following guaranteeWe will arrange for payments accidently 
made to your old account to be automatically  redirected to your new account.
At page  17 under the heading Errors and Complaints it says If something  goes wrong  with 
the Current Account  Switch Service (for example  if a payment is not redirected,  is redirected 
incorrectly, or is lost), we will correct the error,  you will receive  a refund of any interest  and/or 
charges incurred, paid or lost on your Old Account or your New Account as a result of the 
failure and we will notify you or any action we have taken and the outcome.   
Bank of Scotland is blaming Miss Ms old bank. But it seems to me that under the Current  
Account Switch Guarantee the responsibility of ensuring that the switch occurs  effortlessly  
lies with Bank of Scotland. And that responsibility  continues for three years. So I dont think  it 
can put the blame onto Miss Ms old bank and not accept responsibility under the switching 
guarantee.
I cant see there has been any financial loss to Miss M as her father was able to make  a 
successful payment into her account the following day by using another account. But I think 
that refusing to acknowledge its responsibility  in this mistake has caused Miss M distress 
and inconvenience.  We can only tell a bank to pay compensation for any trouble and upset 
caused to its customer. So I cant tell it to pay her father, who has brought this complaint on 
her behalf.  But I think  Bank  of Scotland should  pay Miss M £150 compensation for the 
impact this has had on her.
I asked both parties to respond by 8 August 2019. Bank of Scotland  said it accepted my 
provisional decision.
Miss Ms representative responded with a number of points about  how this issue is of 
significant public interest but quite rightly  said that this is not within our remit. He said 
Miss M was ready to accept my decision but asked that Bank of Scotland send her a letter 
apologising for this situation. It has agreed  to do this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put matters right Bank of Scotland  Plc must 
pay Miss M £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5189050