K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains on that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1996 Mr P took out a personal loan with Lloyds.  At the same time he took out a single 
premium PPI policy to protect  his loan repayments. The policy wouldve covered his loan 
repayments if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness for the duration of the 
loan and for up to 12 months if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  the policy  wouldve  
been presented  as optional and wouldve suited his needs.
Mr P disagrees. He says he wasnt given  the proper information on the policy  and he didnt 
need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P applied for a loan during a meeting at a branch of Lloyds. Lloyds had to make  it clear to 
Mr P he had a choice in taking the PPI. Mr P said this wasnt  done but he hasnt  given much  
detail about why he thinks this. And because of the length of time that has passed since the 
sale Lloyds hasnt been able to provide any of the paperwork  for the loan. So I dont know 
exactly what was discussed.  
But I have seen a sample of a Lloyds loan agreement from the time which I think is likely to 
be the same  agreement used when Mr P took out his loan. So to help me reach my decision 
Ive considered what Mr Ps said and looked at the sample loan agreement together with 
what we know about Lloyds sales process.
From what  I understand of the sales process  I think its likely that there wouldve been a 
discussion between the sales  adviser  and Mr P about PPI and if PPI was required it 
wouldve been included  on the loan agreement.
I can see from the sample loan agreement the PPI cost is set out separately  from the loan 
cost and has YES and NO boxes next to the heading OPTIONAL LOAN PROTECTION. 
I think because Mr P had PPI the yes box wouldve been selected on his loan agreement. 
And because Mr P wouldve been required  to sign just below  the yes and no boxes on the 
agreement, I think  its likely he wouldve seen them  and if he hadnt agreed to take the policy 
I think he wouldve raised this with the sales adviser.
Ref: DRN56016342So I think it wouldve been clear  to Mr P at the time he took out the loan that the PPI was 
separate from the loan and optional, because it is described as optional  and he could say 
yes or no to taking PPI. And based  on what Mr P has told us I cant say its likely Lloyds did 
do things to make Mr P think the PPI wasnt optional.
Lloyds advised  Mr P to take the policy. What  this means is that Lloyds not only had to 
provide information  about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr P could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But I think the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr P for the following reasons:
He was eligible  for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been  caught by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of sale Mr P says he was entitled  to sick pay which he could use to make 
his repayments  if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve  paid out on top of his sick 
pay and for potentially longer covering his repayments for the duration of the loan if 
he was unable to work  due to accident  or sickness and for up to 12 months  if he lost 
his job. 
So I think the PPI wouldve  provided  a useful  benefit to Mr P in his circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable to him at the time.  I note 
that if he cancelled  the policy he wouldnt have received  a pro-rata refund. But theres 
nothing to suggest at the time of sale he wouldve needed the flexibility  to cancel the 
policy early.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mr P information in a way which was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the PPI out. I can see that the interest charged on the PPI isnt shown on the loan 
agreement so I dont  think Lloyds did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons  that the PPI was suitable  and based on what  Mr P has told us 
about his circumstances at the time,  I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI if hed been  
given all the proper  information by Lloyds.   
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
Ref: DRN56016343But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:  
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr P about that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mr P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy one wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019. 
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5601634