K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains that Vitality Health Limited mis-sold a private  medical insurance policy. 
Shes also unhappy with Vitalitys  handling  of a claim she made  under  the policy. 
background
In August  2018,  Miss T took out the policy over the phone. A few days later she made  a 
claim. Miss T later complained about both the sale of the policy,  and Vitalitys handling of the 
claim. She says Vitality has lied to her, and its staff have been inconsistent with the 
information she has been given. 
Vitality upheld the complaint. It accepted it could have handled Miss Ts claim better. It sent 
her a bouquet of flowers  and offered her £150  compensation.  Unhappy with this, Miss T 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  agree with Miss T that the policy had been mis-sold. However, he 
thought Vitality should increase the compensation payable to Miss T for its handling  of her 
claim. He recommended  it increase  this by £125.
Vitality agreed with the adjudicators recommendations,  but Miss T didnt. The matter has 
therefore been passed to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the calls that took place between Miss T and Vitality about  the sale of the 
policy. Having done so, Im satisfied the adviser explained how the policy worked.  Miss T 
agreed to take out the policy and understood there  was a 14 day cooling-off period where 
she could change her mind. 
I therefore dont  agree with Miss T that the policy was mis-sold. I think she was given 
sufficient information  about the policy to allow her to make an informed decision as to 
whether or not to take it out. 
Miss T has also complained about  Vitalitys handling  of a claim.  
Two days after taking  out the policy, Miss T told Vitality  shed  undergone  a routine cervical 
screening test shortly before taking out the policy, and that shed just received a letter from 
her GP advising her she would need  a colposcopy. She asked Vitality if it would cover the 
cost of this. Vitality explained to Miss T that it would need more information  from her GP, 
before it would agree to the claim.  I think that was reasonable, particularly as that the claim 
was made  so soon  after the policy had started. 
Miss T asked her GP to provide more information, but was told she would need to pay £60. 
She was unhappy  about this, and ultimately Vitality agreed to pay for this fee. I think that 
was appropriate,  as it was clear  Miss T was getting  distressed about the situation.  
Vitality then informed Miss T it would cover the colposcopy. Miss T advised it shed already 
had the colposcopy on the NHS, but needed a second procedure. She said she already had 
Ref: DRN53465702an appointment to have  this on the NHS, but she would decide later on if she wanted  to have 
it carried it out privately. Meanwhile, she wanted a claim  form so that she could claim the 
£125 NHS cash benefit under the policy for her colposcopy procedure.  
Unfortunately, there were delays with sending Miss T the claim form for the NHS cash 
benefit. And when  Vitality  said it would email her the form, it instead sent it by second  class 
post. Those  delays meant she received the claim form after her second procedure,  which  
she also had done on the NHS. 
Miss T then found out her procedures werent eligible for NHS cash  benefit, because  they 
were carried  out on an out-patient basis, rather than day-patient. 
I dont agree with Miss T that Vitality had lied to her about her cover.  However, it is 
unfortunate that Vitality didnt ask Miss T if she was having her procedures  as an out-patient  
or day-patient. If it had done this, it could have made Miss T aware at the outset that the 
procedures werent  eligible  for NHS cash benefit  rather than lead her to believe they were. 
Also the confusion around the claim forms wouldnt have happened.  
Vitality has agreed to increase its total compensation to £275 to recognise the confusion  it 
caused Miss T. Given  that this is equivalent  to the NHS cash benefit that would have been 
payable for her two procedures if theyd been eligible, plus £25, I think thats reasonable. 
Whilst I appreciate Miss T was very confused at the outset of the claim over whether or not 
her claim would be covered, I dont  think Vitality was responsible  for this. It seems Miss T 
was speaking to someone at another company  about her insurance cover with Vitality,  and 
also her claim. That person apparently  told her Vitality wouldnt cover  the claim because of 
the timing of the letter from her GP. Thats  unfortunate, but Vitality  wasnt responsible for this 
information.
I therefore dont  require Vitality to do anything further in respect  of this point.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay Miss T 
an additional  £125 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5346570