K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that the car supplied to her by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
was misrepresented to her. As a result she says she stands to lose money and wants VWFS 
to compensate her for this.
background
In 2014 Mrs H took out a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS for a new car. The agreement 
was due to end in 2018. After the agreement had begun but before it had ended Mrs H 
found out that the car had software installed  in it which VWFS hadnt told her about before 
supplying the car. According to VWFS the software only impacted the Nitrogen Oxide  
(NOx) emissions of the car during test conditions.
VWFS said that it had developed a technical  measure  - in this case a software update  - to
deal with this situation. It asked  Mrs H if she wanted it and she agreed (with a degree  of 
reluctance). The technical measure was applied to the car.
Mrs H was very dissatisfied with the whole situation.  She suggested VWFS had given her 
incorrect information about the car because of the presence of the software.  She said, if she 
had known about this she would never have entered into the agreement  to finance the car. 
She thought  all of this had devalued the car. 
In her opinion, what made matters  worse was that she had spent  money on the car making  
additions to it. She had also serviced  the car only with main  dealers and this was more  
expensive than going to other garages. Moreover, she had kept the mileage low. Shed done 
all of this because from the beginning, she had wanted to keep the car.  
Taking all of this into account  Mrs H wanted VWFS to write  off the amount owed by her 
under the agreement which was in the region  of £20,000. Mrs H also wanted an 
acknowledgement from VWFS that it had caused the car to lose value, an apology  and an 
award for distress and inconvenience.  She also suggested that our service  ought to be 
looking to penalise VWFS  for what it had done.
VWFS didnt  agree that there had been  a misrepresentation. Rather  as far as it was aware,
Mrs H had never been told anything about  NOx emissions before she had gone ahead  with 
the contract. And it did not agree that the software in the car meant that anything that Mrs H 
might have been told about  the cars environmental credentials or performance  was 
incorrect. It also didnt accept that the car had lost value  due to any of this. It pointed out that 
Mrs H could part exchange the car with a relevant main dealership should she wish to. Since 
it didnt think it was in the wrong,  it wasnt prepared to offer her the solution  she asked it for.
Mrs H came to us. We looked at her complaint. Our investigator didnt agree he had any 
proper basis to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. In summary,  he agreed that as the supplier of the 
finance and the car VWFS could fairly and reasonably  be held responsible  if the car had 
been misrepresented  to her. But he didnt  agree  that it had been.  Also,  he explained that it is 
not our role to act as a regulator or to seek to punish VWFS as Mrs H suggested  we ought to 
do.
VWFS accepted our investigators conclusions. Mrs H didnt. In summary, she repeated 
much of what she had told us previously. She added  she felt very let down by our 
investigators conclusions.  She mentioned that the technical measure had caused  problems 
Ref: DRN52858202with the car in relation  to the electrics  of a door. She told us about other things that had gone 
wrong with the car after the technical  measure was applied. Further she mentioned an 
ongoing court case in the UK. She also mentioned what she thought had happened  in the 
USA. All in all she thought  it reasonable that VWFS  take at least  20% off the amount it was 
asking her to pay.
We could not go any further at this stage so I have  been  asked to take a fresh  look at 
Mrs Hs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs H has made a number of detailed points in support of her complaint. 
Equally VWFS has sent us detailed responses. I have read and considered  everything  that 
both Mrs H and VWFS have sent to this service. However, I have  not gone into similar detail 
here. This is because as an informal dispute resolution service,  our role is to reach  a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me 
to respond to every point  made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
It seems  that Mrs H has very strong feelings  about  what happened.  She spent a lot of money 
on the car which she tells us she always  intended to keep. She now seems  to feel the car is 
not what she was told it was and she holds VWFS  responsible for this. To her mind then it is 
reasonable that she should be compensated for this. Im aware of all this, so I realise what 
Im going  to say will inevitably disappoint  her. But for the reasons  I set out below, Im not 
upholding her complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, (as is the case  in part here) I have based my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other  words, on what  I consider is most likely  to 
have happened  in the light of the evidence.
misrepresentation
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such, this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VWFS is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible in 
certain circumstances  for a complaint about  misrepresentation.  
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induced a party to enter into a contract 
and led to them making a loss. To uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that a 
relevant misrepresentation was made to Mrs H. If so, I think, it would be fair and reasonable 
to hold VWFS responsible  for it. Thats why Ive taken a close  look at what most likely  
happened before  Mrs H and VWFS  made  their contract.
Most people  outside  of the car industry had never  heard of NOx emissions in this context 
before this whole  issue came to light. VWFS say nothing  was mentioned about NOx 
emissions in the marketing literature that was available for customers at the time. Ive not 
Ref: DRN52858203seen anything that contradicts this. Mrs H hasnt told us she did discuss  NOx emissions with 
the dealership.  For all of these reasons  I find it unlikely that NOx emissions were ever 
discussed with her at the time she was looking to go ahead with the agreement for the car.
But Mrs H appears to be saying that what she was told about the cars environmental 
credentials and performance  was incorrect because of the existence of the software in the 
car. VWFSs stance  is that the software only impacts on NOx emissions in test conditions. 
Ive not seen anything to say this is incorrect.
Moreover, when people talk about  how a car affects  the environment  they are usually talking  
about carbon  dioxide  emissions. So even if environmental issues are something Mrs H did 
discuss prior to contracting with VWFS  I think what she had in mind  was on balance, carbon 
dioxide emissions. And I have seen  nothing to show that the software has any impact on 
carbon dioxide  emissions.  It follows that I think it is unlikely that anything  she was told about 
carbon dioxide  emissions  is incorrect due to the fact that the car has this software installed in 
it.
Further, it seems  that the software only comes into play in test conditions, as I have already 
mentioned. The information that Mrs H would  most  likely have seen about the performance 
of the car would have related to real world  driving conditions. It follows  I have not got enough 
to say it is likely that the performance of the car in normal driving  conditions  is different from 
anything Mrs H was told about this. 
For all of these reasons, I cant fairly and reasonably agree that it is likely  that Mrs H was 
given incorrect information  about the car.
The other element  of misrepresentation  is that Mrs H needs to show she made  a loss due to 
relying on incorrect information. Mrs H complains that her car is now worth  less than it would 
have been due to the software issue. However this point falls away as I dont  agree  that 
Mrs H was given incorrect information  about the car. However, just for the sake of 
completeness Ive taken  a look at this. 
The information I have  been provided with does not demonstrate that the car has lost value 
as she suggests.  She says she has found  some comparable cars have been  for sale for less 
than what she is being asked to pay for this car. There are a number of factors  that impact  
the value of cars, particularly diesel cars at the moment and we havent seen anything  to 
indicate the issue with the car she has had any specific detrimental impact to the value of the 
car.
software update
Mrs H suggests that the software update has caused a car door to stop working properly.  
Since she came to us Mrs H has also told us about other new issues relating to the software 
update. These issues have not been  considered  by VWFS  in its final response  to Mrs H. It 
follows that I am unable  to look at this matter in this final decision.
what happened in the USA and the current court case in the UK
I can see Mrs H believes there are echoes of what happened in the United States over  in 
the
UK. But the regulatory regime   and the investigations being done  there   are very different 
to the UK so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to attempt to compare  the situations.
Ref: DRN52858204Im aware that legal proceedings have begun in the UK. My role as an ombudsman is to 
consider the individual  complaint and decide  whether something has gone  wrong.  But a 
court may take a different view of the situation.
penalties
Mrs H has consistently talked about  what she thinks VWFS has done  wrong  on a wider  scale 
than just this complaint,  and why she thinks we should hold it to account by way of imposing 
a penalty. I need to make it clear we are not the regulator. Its not for me to fine financial 
businesses, and the awards I make arent  intended  to be a punishment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5285820