K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has carried  out poor 
workmanship as part of its repairs related to a subsidence claim.
background
Mr and Mrs C have been in contact with Aviva, their buildings  insurance provider, for a 
number of years in relation to the subsidence of their home.  Aviva  accepted  their claim and 
following initial investigation  works, it began repairs in 2014.
The subsidence had caused damage  to two stone lintels surrounding Mr and Mrs Cs kitchen 
windows. This resulted  in visible cracks  in the stone, both internally and externally. Aviva 
said it had completed  the repairs and works in July 2016. But Mr and Mrs C werent  happy  
and said there were a number of snagging issues, including the still damaged  lintels.
In September  2016, following some back and forth, Aviva said it would cash settle  the claim 
and costs for remaining repairs if Mr and Mrs C would provide quotes from their own 
contactors. Mr and Mrs C attempted  to find contractors themselves but were  unsuccessful.  
So they asked  for Avivas  help and its own contractors reviewed the work.  Aviva said the 
lintels could be repaired but it would leave visible marks. In turn it said it would cash  settle to 
the value of the repair and not replacement of the lintels. Mr and Mrs C disagreed and 
brought their complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened  and upheld  the complaint. She said 
Aviva had the right to repair  under  the policy, but it had already attempted this and its 
workmanship was of poor quality. And she said its proposed solution would leave visible  
marks which didnt put the building back to its pre-loss condition. 
The investigator concluded that a further  repair wasnt  fair so she recommended Aviva either 
replace the lintel itself using its own contractors, or allow Mr and Mrs C to obtain estimates 
and cash settle  to the lowest value.  She also said Avivas initial  workmanship and 
subsequent delays caused  Mr and Mrs C distress and inconvenience so it should  pay them 
£250 as compensation
Aviva considered this and agreed  to pay for the cost of the works carried out by 
Mr and Mrs Cs contractors on receipt of estimates.  Mr and Mrs C agreed  in part, but said 
they felt Aviva should arrange for the works to be completed if they were unable  to obtain 
any estimates themselves. Our investigator  asked Aviva if it would agree to this but it said it 
saw no reason why Mr and Mrs C would be unable to obtain estimates. 
So Aviva reiterated  that it would  cash settle on the receipt of estimates from Mr and Mrs C. 
As the parties disagreed,  the case been  passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN57748302Following our investigators assessment, Aviva agreed that the lintels  in question  will be 
replaced. So I dont  need to consider this any further.
Under the terms of the policy, Aviva can choose how to settle the claim. And it has chosen to 
cash settle, which it will do so on receipt  of estimates for the cost of the work. Our 
investigator suggested Mr and Mrs C obtain  three estimates and allow  Aviva  to select  the 
cheapest option. This is common in cases such as this, and I agree this is reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C have expressed  concern  that they may not be able to obtain  them.  So theyve 
asked for a guarantee that Aviva will step in to carry out the works if they cant. Given the 
history of the claim,  I can understand Mr and Mrs Cs concerns  theyve previously  
struggled to obtain  estimates.
From what  Ive seen, Aviva hasnt been provided  with any estimates. And I havent been 
given anything to show Mr and Mrs C have  attempted or experienced difficulties in obtaining 
estimates. And without  this first taking place,  I dont think  it would be reasonable to direct  
Aviva to guarantee something against its choice  which it has under  the policy.
So Im satisfied that Avivas request for these estimates is reasonable. If Mr and Mrs C do 
struggle to obtain estimates, and they can demonstrate to Aviva theyve made  a reasonable 
attempt to do so, Id expect it to reconsider  its position in light of the circumstances.
Our investigator also said Aviva should award £250 to Mr and Mrs C to compensate  them for 
the delays and issues surrounding the lintels. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable sum 
in light of whats happened.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint  and directing Aviva  Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs C £250 for distress and inconvenience caused.
Aviva must pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr and Mrs C 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before   20 April 2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5774830