K821x#15complaint
F, a charity, complains about Ecclesiastical  Insurance Office  Plcs  refusal  of a claim made 
under Fs charity buildings insurance policy.
background
F is represented in this complaint by Mr L.
F has a buildings insurance  policy with Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (Ecclesiastical). 
They made a claim after a part of the roof of the insured building  blew off during a storm.
Ecclesiastical declined  the claim on the basis  that the damage was caused by gradual  
deterioration. They said the storm had simply highlighted  an underlying problem  with the roof 
which had rotting timbers caused by ingress of water  over a prolonged period of time.
Mr L complained to Ecclesiastical about this outcome, but they didnt uphold the complaint, 
so he brought  it to us. Our investigator  looked  into it and thought Ecclesiastical should pay 
the claim.
Her view was that whilst  the damage  wasnt due primarily to the storm, it was unreasonable  
for Ecclesiastical to decline the claim because the gradual cause  of the damage couldnt 
reasonably have been apparent to F.
Ecclesiastical disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I decided to issue  a provisional decision 
before I make  my final decision. This allowed both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
thinking before I make  my final decision  which is this services  last word on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fs policy covers storm damage. But in this case, although there was a storm on the 
day the roof was damaged, its clear  the storm wasnt  the primary or dominant cause 
of the damage.
The expert report commissioned by Ecclesiastical is clear that the roofs timbers  were 
rotten due to ingress of water over a prolonged period of time.  So the screws holding  
the roofing sheets in place had only the rotten  timbers to attach  to during the storm.
The policy also covers accidental damage. And clearly, the damage in this case 
wasnt caused intentionally. But the policy specifically excludes  damage caused by 
gradual deterioration.
This kind of exclusion isnt unusual in buildings  insurance policies. And it means  that, 
on the face of it, the damage  in this case  caused by water ingress over a prolonged 
period  isnt covered.
Ref: DRN54087172We usually take the view,  however, that its unfair  to decline  a claim on the basis of 
an exclusion  relating  to gradual deterioration unless the consumer should reasonably  
have been aware  the damage was occurring and so should have taken  steps to 
prevent it.
So, the decision I have  to make rests on whether F were - or should reasonably have 
been - aware  of the issues which led to the damage.
As I understand it, F agree the roof timbers  were rotten. However, they say there  was 
no way they could have detected that without  removing  the metal  roofing sheets  
which it would be unreasonable to expect  them to do. They also say the roof was 
subject to regular  maintenance inspections.
I think its important here to refer back to the expert report. This noted that the edge of 
the roof  the roof verge  had no flashings  to prevent water ingress. This meant the 
roof verge was open to the elements.  And so the timbers were exposed  to water 
and gradually  rotted.
When Fs brokers  communicated  with Ecclesiastical  about the claim,  they said there 
had been a fascia board where the wall of the building met the roof, but that this had 
blown away entirely  in the storm. It later became apparent that there was neither a 
fascia board  nor verge flashings to protect against the ingress of water.
I appreciate that this is an old building. We asked Mr L if he had the original building 
plans  or anything  else which might  have led F to believe the building  would be 
protected despite the lack of fascia boards  or flashings. He told us there was no 
paperwork from either the original build  early in the 20th century  or from when the 
current roof was put in place  which he estimates  as being pre-war  or in the 1950s.
I also have some sympathy for the Committee charged with maintenance of the 
building, who may not be buildings experts.  But as I say this is an old building  most 
likely with no new roof for the best part of 70 years.  And it was entirely lacking  in any 
form of protection  from water ingress at the roof verge.
Obviously, the lack of fascia board or flashings  would have been apparent to Fs 
maintenance Committee. And they might therefore  have been  expected  to introduce 
some protection or, at the very least, be extremely vigilant about the potential 
damage likely to be caused by its absence.
So, bearing that in mind, Im satisfied F should reasonably have  been  aware  that 
damage was likely occurring in the roof over time.  And they should  have  taken steps 
to prevent it.
That being  the case, I cant say its unreasonable for Ecclesiastical to decline this 
claim on the basis that the cause of the damage  was gradual deterioration  of which  
F should  reasonably have been aware.
Based on the above reasoning, I said I wasnt minded to uphold Fs complaint.
Ref: DRN54087173the responses to my provisional  decision
Ecclesiastical havent  responded to my provisional  decision. I assume  this is because they 
agree with it and have  nothing more to add.
Mr L responded on behalf of F.
He said it was too simplistic to say the damage  to the roof was caused by a rotting  timber.  
He believes the damage was caused by a combination  of factors.
He acknowledges  that the timber  was rotten, but he says the damage would not have 
occurred had it not been for the storm. And he says the roof had withstood  other  storms, but 
this one came from an unusual direction which meant the hall wasnt  as protected from the 
weather as it usually  is.
He thinks that taking all of that into account  it would be fair to ask Ecclesiastical to bear a 
proportion of the cost of repairing the damage.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mr Ls response to my 
provisional decision.
Im very sorry that F, a charity  which no doubt  plays a significant  part in the local community,  
have experienced these  problems with their roof. But Im afraid I havent changed my mind 
about the outcome in this case.
I take Mr Ls point that the damage  only occurred  due to the combination  of the rotten roof 
timbers and the storm. But in this kind of case, we have to look for the primary or operating 
cause of any damage. 
The storm in itself would not have caused damage  to a well-maintained roof. And given the 
state of the roof it was a matter of time before damage occurred. This storm  from a strange 
direction or not  simply  served to highlight an underlying on-going problem.  
As I explained in my provisional decision,  where  the primary cause of damage  is gradual, we 
have to consider  whether the policyholder  was  or should have been  aware that damage 
was occurring. And so whether they might reasonably have been expected to do something 
to address the issue before it became the subject of an insurance  claim.
In this case, as I explained, Im afraid I think F should have been aware of the problem. If 
they had been, they could have taken steps to prevent  the damage.
Ref: DRN54087174my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5408717