K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  that was sold to Mr D 
to protect  his mortgage in 2005.  
I can see that Halifax Insurance  Ireland  Limited  sold this policy, but St Andrews Insurance 
(St Andrews) has accepted responsibility for the sale. Because of this, St Andrews has also 
agreed it is responsible  for the complaint.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to St Andrews for 
the rest of this decision. 
background
I can see that Mr D applied  for his mortgage  in May 2005. But looking at the paperwork, it 
appears that PPI was sold to him later that year in October. 
The thrust of Mr Ds complaint is that he says he didnt know  he had a PPI policy.  He set out 
several circumstances  in which he could have made a claim  having had two accidents and 
being made redundant. His argument is that if hed known he had this insurance,  he would 
have made  a claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. I can see that Mr D strongly 
disagreed with that view so the matter has been passed to me to make  a final decision.  
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr D, but after looking carefully at all of the evidence  in his case,  
I havent upheld  his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Ive had to work out how the PPI was sold to Mr D. Ive been  given a copy  of a mortgage 
repayments cover acceptance  form that was completed by Mr D in October 2005. Looking 
at that form, I think it was probably sent to Mr D by post some months after the mortgage  
had started. 
The first thing Ive had to consider is whether St Andrews obtained Mr Ds agreement to set 
the policy up. Ive also looked at whether he would have known the cover was optional  and 
he didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it.  
I think its important for me to say that I dont doubt  that what  Mr D told us is what  he 
honestly remembers about the way his PPI policy was sold to him. I appreciate  that Mr D 
says he thought the document  he signed  was to do with his mortgage   not a PPI policy.  But 
what I have to look at is whether St Andrews did anything wrong  when it sold this cover  to 
Mr D. 
As the mortgage  repayments cover application  form was sent to Mr D through the post, I 
think hed have been able to complete it in his own time and at his own pace.  I can see Mr D 
has signed the bottom of the form. Theres a relatively prominent notice just above  that 
which says do not sign the direct  debit instruction without  reading and agreeing  to the 
Ref: DRN50045252details above.  I can also see that its set out at the top of the form that Mr Ds signature will 
confirm that he has read and agreed to the important information set out in the application 
form. Thinking about all of this, I think its fair to say that St Andrews  probably  did sell the 
policy with Mr Ds consent. 
Ive also thought carefully about whether Mr D would have known the cover was optional  and 
he didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. I agree that the application  form doesnt  explicitly  
set out that the cover  was optional.  But as Mr Ds mortgage had already been  agreed and 
the funds had been drawn down, I dont  think  Mr D would have reasonably thought  that the 
cover was a condition of his mortgage.  I can see that a direct debit to pay for the cover 
would have been taken out of his bank account  separate to the mortgage payment. 
All in all, I think Mr D would have probably known he could refuse this cover  if he didnt want  
it. 
It doesnt appear to me that St Andrews told Mr D that this particular policy  was right for his 
particular circumstances.  But it still had to give him enough information about  the cover  so 
he could decide  for himself whether  it was a good  fit for his needs. That information had to 
be fair, clear  and not misleading. 
I think the application form set out the cost of the premiums clearly enough. Theres not a lot 
of information  on the form about the policys exclusions. So Ive thought  next about whether 
Mr D would have changed his mind about buying  the cover  if hed been  told more  about it. 
To help me decide what hes likely to have done, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
the policy. And Ive also thought about  what Mr D told us about his personal  circumstances 
at the time he bought this policy.  
I can see that if hed had to make  a PPI claim, Mr Ds mortgage repayments could have 
been covered  for up to 12 months  if he couldnt  work because of an illness  or an accident or 
if he lost his job. Mr D told us that he thought hed have had some sick pay from his 
employer. But I think the PPI would have probably paid out for longer than his full sick pay 
would have lasted.  Its also important for me to say that the mortgage was secured on Mr Ds 
home and the consequences could have been  serious if hed fallen behind  with his 
repayments. 
Mr D told us that he was in good health at the time.  So I dont think he would have been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything  
else that was unusual about  his circumstances that would have stopped him from making a 
successful claim  if he needed to. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr D. I know he feels strongly that he didnt know  hed been  sold a 
PPI policy  and he would have made  a claim if he did. But I have to look at whether St 
Andrews did anything  wrong at the point it sold PPI to Mr D. In considering  all of the 
evidence before me and for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld  the mis-sale 
complaint. I note that Mr D told our adjudicator  that he is in discussions with St Andrews 
about making a backdated claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about St Andrews Insurance  
Plc. 
Ref: DRN50045253Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5004525