K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are seeking clarification on how Bank  of Scotland Plc created a liability  in their 
name with Bank of Scotland  (Ireland)  Ltd which ultimately allowed their loan to be sold to a 
third party.
Mr and Mrs C are represented  in bringing this complaint by Mr M.
background
In 2002, Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with The Governor and Company of the Bank
of Scotland.  
In 2004, The Governor and Company of the Bank  of Scotland  assigned its portfolio of 
domestic mortgages to Bank of Scotland (Ireland)  Ltd - a wholly owned subsidiary of The 
Governor and Company  of the Bank of Scotland. 
In 2006, by virtue of UK legislation,  the HBOS reorganisation  Act 2006  changed the name of 
the Governor  and Company of Bank of Scotland to Bank of Scotland plc. 
All facilities of the Governor and Company of the Bank  of Scotland were  transferred to Bank 
of Scotland plc under the companies (cross borders merger) Regulations 2007. All 
obligations were  now owed to Bank of Scotland plc. 
In September  2018, the mortgage was sold to a third party based outside the UK.
To date there have  been three views  issued  on this complaint by two of our investigators. In 
the original view sent in December  2018, our investigator considered  whether The Governor 
and Company of the Bank of Scotland could transfer the liability of the mortgage.
Having reviewed the original terms of the mortgage,  our investigator found  they were,  and he 
thought enough notice  had been  given to Mr and Mrs C about the transfer.
Another investigator looked at the case in 2019 but there was no change  in outcome with 
regards to this aspect of the case.  
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigators  and he asked  for an ombudsman  to review the case. 
There were additional  complaint  points raised  by Mr M however, these fell outside  of our 
jurisdiction and I have  sent a separate communication clarifying  this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs C but I wont be upholding this complaint 
and Ive explained why below.
Mr M has sent us some  detailed submissions  on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf  setting  out his 
understanding of the legal position for the transfers.  Ive taken all this information into 
account, but Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment  on any 
Ref: DRN51497152specific point, its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is an informal dispute  resolution service and were not 
designed to replicate the legal process.  If Mr and Mrs C think Bank of Scotland Plc has 
broken UK law, then thats  a matter they can argue  in court  and their legal representatives 
should be able to discuss this with them in more detail.  
My role is to look at what happened and decide  whether  I think  thats fair, reasonable, and in 
line with normal industry practice. 
Mr M said the mortgage had moved  between jurisdictions without the permission of Mr and 
Mrs C which  ultimately  resulted in the loan being transferred to a third party.
I can see there have been substantial changes  in how Bank  of Scotland has organised  its 
business, both through  legislation and internally, and the decisions to enact the various  
changes of ownership were taken  in the UK.
Having looked  at the original terms and conditions of the mortgage, I can see they give Bank 
of Scotland Plc the ability to transfer  the mortgage  liability to another lender. The transfer of 
the mortgage was a commercial decision by Bank of Scotland  Plc and something it could do 
under the terms  and conditions of the account.  So, I dont think  that Bank of Scotland  Plc 
have done anything wrong  here. 
Ive also reviewed the letters sent to Mr and Mrs C in advance of the transfer of the 
mortgage to the third party,  and Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland  Plc gave due notice to Mr 
and Mrs C about the transfer.
I can understand the changes to how Bank of Scotland Plc has organised  its business  must 
have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs C, and I know they will be disappointed with this 
outcome. Nevertheless,  Bank of Scotland Plc were allowed  to transfer  the mortgage liability,  
so I cant say that they have treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  for the reasons Ive explained  above,  and I 
wont be asking Bank of Scotland Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 July 2021.
Tara Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5149715