K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains about how Great  Lakes  Insurance SE dealt with his home emergency 
insurance claim. My references to Great Lakes include  its agents.
background
Mr I claimed on his home emergency policy as a leak was soaking  the floors  in his main  
bedroom and en-suite  bathroom. He couldnt see the source of the leak.
Great Lakes accepted the claim. It told Mr I any extensive trace  and access work to find the 
leak would  have to be done privately before it could send an engineer  back out to 
temporarily repair the leak.
Mr I wanted Great Lakes  to send an engineer and it did so that evening.  The engineer also 
couldn't see the source of the leak but thought the problem was caused  by a facility  in the 
en-suite bathroom.  He recommended  trace and access  and left Mr Is property without taking 
any action.
The next day Great Lakes  recommended  that Mr I get his building and contents insurer  to 
trace the leak and once found it would  return  to temporarily repair the leak. Later that day 
Mr I told Great Lakes the other insurer had traced and accessed the leak which  was from a 
faulty valve on the toilet in the en-suite bathroom.  The toilet had been  isolated so further 
water damage to the property had been  prevented.  Mr I had another toilet  in the property so 
Great Lakes then said he was no longer  in an emergency situation.  
Mr I complained that Great Lakes was no longer prepared to do a repair.  The next day its 
engineer agreed  to repair the valve for free, which it said was beyond  the policy terms. It 
contacted Mr I with the offer but he declined as hed arranged a private  engineer to do the 
repair.
Mr I complained to us. He said if Great Lakes had stopped the leak when it first attended the 
damage to his home wouldnt  have been so much.  He wanted compensation. 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes engineer should have done  more  when he first 
attended. It should pay Mr I £100  compensation made up of the £70 he paid for the private 
engineer and £30 for his inconvenience.
Great Lakes disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why
The policy covers emergency  work  by doing  a temporary repair  or permanent  repair  if the 
cost is similar, up to the policy limit of £250. 
The policy doesnt  say Great Lakes  wont trace and access  leaks but I accept the point its 
made that such work can take hours and would be far beyond the policy  limit. So once its 
Ref: DRN50895982engineer knew  tracing  work was required it acted fairly in not starting  the tracing and access  
work.
However, in the seventh call between the parties Great Lakes accepts  it could have 
potentially given Mr I more options  when it first attended; isolating the toilet  or 
recommending he turn off the stop tap to prevent further damage.  
Great Lakes says Mr I should  have known about  turning off the stop tap and that would have 
left him without water. But Great Lakes was the professional in the situation and should have 
reasonably  attempted to provide a resolution, albeit a temporary one. It would have been 
reasonable to tell Mr I about turning off the stop tap. It would have been for him to decide if 
he wanted the inconvenience of that or have further  damage to his property.
Mr I has detailed the additional damage  to his property by the leak continuing  overnight  and 
into the next day. Great Lakes says repair work would still have been required for the 
damage done when it first knew about the leak. But I think  its more  likely than not that the 
additional time the water leaked  caused  additional  damage. I understand the damage was 
repaired under  Mr Is other insurance.  But he still had all the inconvenience of the additional 
damage which could  have been avoided  or minimised if Great  Lakes had told him about his 
options of turning off the stop tap or isolating the facilities  in the bathroom.
Under the policy Great Lakes doesnt  need to do a permanent  repair, just a temporary one 
unless the costs are similar.  I dont  have any information from Great  Lakes that shows  the 
cost of a temporary  repair would  be much less than the £70 Mr I paid for a permanent repair.  
So I cant say its offer to send an engineer  to repair was beyond the policy  terms. 
Mr I says he kept the private  engineer  he arranged  as hed already  paid a deposit. As he 
was already frustrated  by Great Lakes service I understand  why he declined  Great  Lakes 
later offer to do the repair. 
Looking at the circumstances I think Great Lakes should pay compensation for a contribution  
to Mr Is private repair bill and his inconvenience its poor service caused. Overall  £100 in 
total is a fair amount.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to pay Mr I £100 compensation for his distress  and 
inconvenience within 28 days of us telling it that Mr I accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5089598