K821x#15complaint
Miss N has complained about short  term loans granted to her by PDL Finance  Limited  
trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender or the lender).  Miss N says that the loans werent 
affordable for her. She says that she was borrowing from other payday lenders at the time to 
cover her living costs and she often borrowed from one lender to repay another. 
background
I set out the circumstances  leading to this complaint and my initial  conclusions  in a 
provisional decision to both parties in August. I have included a copy of my provisional 
decision at the end of this document for background and so I wont repeat all of its content 
here. 
In summary   Mr Lender agreed four loans for Miss N over 19 months as per the below 
table.
No.Date 
agreedDate repaidPrincipal 
(£)Number of 
repaymentsHighest 
repayment
 (£)
1 09/05/2015 28/10/2015 350 6 126
2 28/12/2015 28/06/2016 500 6 207
3 13/07/2016 26/10/2016 300 3 203
4 13/12/2016 24/03/2017 250 3 167
I found that Mr Lender didnt carry out proportionate  affordability checks when Miss N 
applied for her third and fourth loans  and, had it done so, it would likely have learnt that 
Miss N had outstanding  loans  to other  short term lenders  and wouldnt be able to meet her 
loan repayments  in a sustainable  manner. And so I found it was irresponsible  to have agreed 
to her third and fourth  loans.
Mr Lender didnt agree with my provisional  decision so the complaint  has come to me to 
reconsider and issue a final decision on the matter. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. And Ive 
considered what  Mr Lender has said in response  to my provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Lender  needed to do more  when  Miss N applied  for 
her third loan beyond asking her about  her regular  income and expenditure: 
Miss N asked for a third loan in July 2016,  just over two weeks after repaying  her second 
loan. At this point, Miss N had been  indebted to Mr Lender for over a year. Shed first 
borrowed £350 in May 2015 and now, some 14 months later, she was asking  for a similar 
amount of £300.  This was to be repaid over 3 months and so she needed to continue to pay 
over £200  a month to Mr Lender. At this point Mr Lender ought  to have considered  that 
Ref: DRN51711972Miss N wasnt  applying  for short term loans to meet  a short  term cash  flow problem but more 
likely to meet an ongoing  need,  especially as shed applied again  for credit so soon  after 
repaying her previous  loan. 
So I dont  think it was fair of the lender to repeat the same assessment it carried  out for 
Miss Ns first two loans  I think  it ought to have gone  further  and gathered a better picture  of 
her finances  before agreeing further credit for her. I think it would  have been  proportionate at 
this point to have queried whether Miss N was reliant on short term credit and sought 
information not only about her regular expenses but also about any other existing short term 
loans she might have  had.
Mr Lender said it had asked about  Miss Ns expenditure on other  short term loans and it had 
always asked this of its customers. Following my provisional decision Mr Lender  explained 
that its lending  process  wasnt  changed or updated in December 2018  and said: 
The change that was made was simply to add clarity to the description  of the field specific to 
a customers expenditure.  The field other loans was amended  to read other loans 
including short terms loans.  This was a change that impacted our Loan Management 
system (internal change only) which was done to improve the clarity of the description and 
the information that is obtained within the field.  It said To confirm, Mr Lenders underwriting  
process includes asking  customers for their monthly  expenditure towards other loans  which 
has always been inclusive  of short term loans.  This change was simply to make this clear 
within our Loan  Management System.
I said in my provisional decision that Mr Lender  hadnt shown me anything which makes me 
think this (other loans including short terms loans) was the actual information query Miss N 
would have seen  when making  her credit application. My conclusion from the above is that 
the wording change was to internal  systems only and so this doesnt change  my conclusion.
Mr Lender says that asking about other  loans  always encompassed asking about other short 
term loans. This may have been  the intent, but I dont  think  this would have prompted  Miss N 
to provide information about her other short term commitments as that information wasnt  
specified. And the other loans category was one of a number of regular monthly 
expenditure categories that Miss N was asked about  at the same  time. So my provisional 
conclusion on this point  - that Mr Lender  didnt gather information from Miss N about her 
other short term lending  commitments  still stands.  
Mr Lender also said in its response that Miss N had repaid her first two loans on time and 
showed no signs of financial  difficulty.  Furthermore shed said her third loan was to pay for 
car repairs, which it considered to be a one-off cost and was further evidence  that she was 
not reliant on short term loans. Mr Lender also recorded that Miss N needed  her first loan for 
funeral costs. It provided supporting  call notes which say that Miss Ns disposable income  
(£720) wouldnt cover the cost of the car repairs.
If Miss N was asking to borrow money  for something which required her to spend  all of her 
disposable income, then Mr Lender ought  to have  considered verifying the information she 
provided about her income and expenditure to build  a comprehensive picture of her financial 
situation before lending.  It seems to me that there was a risk in this situation  that Miss N 
would have to borrow again to meet her repayment  for this loan.
That aside, I have considered Miss Ns explanation  of her financial need alongside the other 
information that Mr Lender knew about  her circumstances. I appreciate  that this is going to 
Ref: DRN51711973be disappointing for Mr Lender but I dont think Miss Ns statement of purpose for the loan 
counteracts the circumstances in which she was asking for it. For her first loan it was 
reasonable of Mr Lender to lend on the basis of its checks  gathering information about  
Miss Ns regular income and expenditure. At that point there wasnt anything  in the 
information it gathered  or its understanding of Miss Ns circumstances that ought  to have 
prompted it to do more. 
As I explained above, by July 2016 Miss N had borrowed twice in a year and was now 
asking for another loan about  two weeks after repaying her second. Im not suggesting 
Mr Lender should  have declined further credit for Miss N outright,  but it ought  to have 
understood more  about her circumstances before agreeing to lend again. 
Had Mr Lender enquired further  it would have learnt that Miss N wasnt likely to be able to 
meet her repayments  in a sustainable  way because of the extent  of her outstanding short 
term loan commitments  elsewhere. The circumstances were similar for her fourth  loan. 
Armed with this knowledge, its likely that Mr Lender  would  have  decided  not to lend on 
these two occasions. So I cant say it agreed these two loans responsibly  and it follows  that 
it needs to put this right.
what Mr Lender  needs to do to put things right
Ive concluded  that Mr Lender  was irresponsible to have agreed loans 3 and 4 for Miss N. In 
order to put her back in the position she would have  been in, had it not agreed  to these, 
Mr Lender should: 
-refund all interest  and charges Miss N paid for loans 3 and 4;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about these loans from Miss Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must  give 
Miss N a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ns complaint about  PDL Finance Limited in part and require  it to put things 
right for her as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51711974COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss N has complained about short term loans granted to her by PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr 
Lender (Mr Lender  or the lender). Miss N says that the loans  werent affordable for her. She says 
that she was borrowing  from other payday lenders at the time to cover her living costs and she often 
borrowed from one lender to repay  another. 
background
Mr Lender agreed  four loans for Miss N from May 2015 to December  2016 for amounts  between £500 
and £250. The first two were to be repaid over six months, the last two were to be repaid  over three.  
Some of the information Mr Lender provided  about these loans is shown below.
No. Date agreed Date repaidPrincipal 
(£)Number of 
repaymentsHighest 
repayment
 (£)
1 09/05/2015 28/10/2015 350 6 126
2 28/12/2015 28/06/2016 500 6 207
3 13/07/2016 26/10/2016 300 3 203
4 13/12/2016 24/03/2017 250 3 167
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ns complaint  in part and recommended that Mr Lender  refund the 
interest and charges she paid on her final loan. Mr Lender disagreed with this recommendation  and 
the complaint has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for review and final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Miss Ns complaint  about  her last two loans. I appreciate that this will 
be disappointing for Mr Lender and I hope my explanation makes it clear  why Im planning to do so.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when Miss N took out her loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance  set out in its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) said that for all loans 
Mr Lender needed to check  that Miss N could afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable manner. 
This meant  Miss N being able to meet her repayments out of her normal  income without having  to go 
without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about  what checks Mr Lender needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether  or not Miss N would be able to meet her repayments sustainably.  But the 
regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. So, the same checks might  not be the 
appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way.  So, for example,  Id expect a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
Ref: DRN51711975-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending  relationship.
So, as our adjudicator did, Ive first thought about whether or not the checks  Mr Lender carried out 
were proportionate and then, if not, what proportionate checks might have shown. Ive also borne  in 
mind that the purpose of high cost short term loans is to assist with short  term cash flow problems and 
such loans are not appropriate for supporting longer term borrowing1. Mr Lenders website echoes this 
and explains that it makes it clear  to customers that this type of loan should be used for short  term 
financial needs and is not appropriate for long-term borrowing or if the customer is in financial 
difficulties.
I understand that Mr Lender gathered information about Miss Ns monthly income and expenditure  
each time she asked  for a loan. It says her income  ranged between  about £1,6002 and £1,820.  It 
seems Miss Ns expenses remained  the same  throughout at £1,050;  £250 of which she said was to 
repay other loans. Mr Lender provided  a breakdown of the application information  as follows:
Monthly income 1820
Mortgage/Rent (£) 375
Electricity/Gas/Water (£) 0
Food & Travel  (£) 175
Telecommunications (£) 0
Council Tax (£) 250
Other Loans (£) 250
Other regular outgoings (£) 0
Mr Lender also carried out credit file checks  and provided  summary results from these which show  
that Miss N didnt have any active formal debt management plans or bankruptcies. 
I agree with our adjudicator that the checks Mr Lender carried out were proportionate for Miss Ns first 
two loans. Her highest monthly repayment for these was £126 and £207 respectively and, given what  
shed said about her regular  income and expenses, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to think  
these loans would be affordable for her. I havent  seen  anything  in the information  Mr Lender 
gathered which I think ought to have prompted it to look further into Miss Ns circumstances  for these 
two loans. 
Miss N asked for a third loan in July 2016, just over two weeks after repaying her second loan. At this 
point, Miss N had been indebted to Mr Lender for over a year. Shed  first borrowed £350 in May 2015 
and now, some 14 months later, she was asking for a similar amount of £300.  This was to be repaid 
over 3 months and so she needed to continue  to pay over £200 a month to Mr Lender. At this point Mr 
Lender ought  to have  considered that Miss N wasnt applying for short  term loans to meet a short 
term cash flow problem but more likely to meet an ongoing need,  especially as shed applied  again for 
credit so soon  after repaying her previous loan. 
So I dont think it was fair of the lender to repeat the same  assessment it carried  out for 
Miss Ns first two loans  I think it ought to have  gone  further and gathered a better picture  of her 
finances before agreeing  further credit for her. I think it would have been proportionate at this point to 
have queried whether  Miss N was reliant on short term credit and sought  information not only about 
her regular expenses but also about any other existing  short term loans she might have had. 
1 CONC 6.7.21G A firm should not refinance high-cost  short-term credit where to do so is 
unsustainable or otherwise  harmful. [Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
2 Mr Lenders final response letter to Miss N mentioned  an amount of £1,6630 to £1,820 which  Ive   
interpreted as about £1,600 to £1,820, assuming an error.
Ref: DRN51711976I think  Mr Lender  should also have  done this when  Miss N applied for her final loan. I appreciate that 
there was a six week gap between Miss N repaying  loan 3 and applying for loan 4 but, given the 
length of time shed been  borrowing from Mr Lender at this point,  I dont think  the lender could 
reasonably think that Miss N had managed to move on from whatever  financial situation she had been 
in and was now presenting with a new need.
Mr Lender said in response to our adjudication that it had asked  Miss N about  other outstanding short 
term lending. The lender said that it changed  its lending  process in December 2018 and information 
about other loans  gathered  from the consumer would now include other  short term loans.  It sent a 
screen shot of its data management system showing  that the information from Miss N now showed a 
category heading of other  loans including short term loans.  
Apart from the fact that this process change happened after Miss Ns loans were agreed,  
Mr Lender hasnt shown me anything which makes me think this was the actual information query  
Miss N would have seen  when  making her credit application. Indeed Mr Lender said that the category 
"other loans" was renamed to "other loans including  short term loans"  to give our underwriters an 
example of what additional finances or credit commitments that a customer  could be paying towards.  
I dont think Mr Lender inquired  further into Miss Ns finances so I cant  conclude  that it carried out a 
proportionate check for loans 3 or 4. And Ive gone  on to consider what  it was likely to have found out 
had it done so. 
Ive looked through Miss Ns bank statements  to be clear,  Im not suggesting  Mr Lender ought  to 
have done this but as Miss N has supplied these its the best indication I have about  her reliance on 
short term lending  at the time. I can see from these that throughout 2016 Miss N was borrowing  from 
at least  four other short term lenders. At the time of applying for loans 3 and 4 Miss Ns level of 
existing short term loans meant that repaying these would amount to a potential  monthly commitment 
of over £700 and so she wasnt likely to have enough left to sustainably meet her repayments to Mr 
Lender. 
I think  Mr Lender  would  have  learnt  this, had it carried out proportionate checks  for these loans. And, 
armed with this understanding, I dont think Mr Lender would have agreed further credit for her and so 
it needs  to put this right.  
what Mr Lender  needs  to do to put things  right
Ive provisionally concluded that Mr Lender was irresponsible to have agreed loans 3 and 4 for Miss 
N. In order  to put her back in the position she would  have been  in, had it not agreed to these, Mr 
Lender should: 
-refund all interest  and charges Miss N paid for loans 3 and 4;
-pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates of 
settlement;
-remove  any adverse information about these loan from Miss Ns credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give Miss N a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN5171197