K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan and seven instalment  loans Uncle Buck  provided  to 
Mr H between December 2014 and October 2016.
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 14 January 2020.  A copy  is attached at 
Appendix A, and forms part of this final decision.
Mr H said he agreed with my provisional  findings.  Uncle Buck said it didnt have anything 
further to add in response to my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
In the absence of any further representations  from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional  decision.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr H paid on loans 5 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from 
the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
the number of loans  taken from loan 5 onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 5 to 8 should be 
removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to pay 
compensation to Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56227962APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr H says Uncle Buck  Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  one payday loan and seven instalment loans Uncle  Buck provided  to Mr H 
between December 2014 and October 2016. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date  Repaid Type Amount Repayment
1 30/12/2014 15/01/2015 Payday £300.00 £404.85
2 22/01/2015 15/04/2015 Instalment £525.00 £250.64
3 15/04/2015 15/07/2015 Instalment £700.00 £354.71
4 15/07/2015 15/10/2015 Instalment £825.00 £419.62
5 06/01/2016 15/03/2016 Instalment £700.00 £306.06
6 15/03/2016 15/06/2016 Instalment £800.00 £405.28
7 15/06/2016 15/09/2016 Instalment £750.00 £380.63
8 10/10/2016 13/01/2017 Instalment £850.00 £447.63
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint  and thought  the loans from loan 4 onwards  shouldnt have 
been given. The adjudicator  said Uncle  Buck should refund interest and charges on loans  4 to 8, and 
remove any negative information about loans  4 and 5 from Mr Hs credit file. 
She said that by loan 6, the number of loans Uncle Buck had arranged for Mr H meant any 
information recorded about them was adverse. So the adjudicator said Uncle  Buck should remove all 
information about loans  6, 7 and 8 from Mr Hs credit file.
Uncle Buck disagreed with the adjudicators  conclusions  and the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr H could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers  income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN56227963the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);  
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Uncle  Buck was required to establish whether 
Mr H could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and in particular  
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt consider Uncle  Buck  shouldve  arranged loan 4 for Mr H, because  she thought 
the business shouldve  realised by that point that Mr H was struggling to manage his money. She 
thought Mr Hs borrowing  history suggested there was a significant risk that he wouldve  been unable  
to sustainably meet his repayments for that loan  and any subsequent  loans.
From what Ive seen, however, Im not persuaded that Uncle Buck  shouldve realised  Mr H might not 
be able to sustainably  repay the loan,  based  on the financial information  available to it at the time. 
Uncle Buck shouldve  obtained information  about Mr Hs income and expenditure, together with 
details of any other short-term lending  he was committed to. 
But even if it had obtained  that information, I dont think it was unreasonable for Uncle  Buck to 
conclude that Mr H would be able to meet his loan repayments. He was borrowing from two other 
short-term lenders at that stage, but the overall amounts he was borrowing  dont suggest that he 
couldnt afford  it.
By loan 5, it wouldve  been  reasonable  for Uncle Buck to carry out more detailed checks of Mr Hs 
finances. This wouldve  included verification of what Mr H had told it about  his income and outgoings.
But again, even if Uncle Buck had carried out more detailed checks, Im not persuaded it wouldve 
been reasonable for it to conclude that loan 5 was unaffordable for Mr H. From  the bank statements 
Ive seen, I dont think it wouldve been immediately  obvious  that Mr H wouldnt be able to meet his 
loan repayments. But I note that he didnt have enough money available to pay his mortgage and took 
out loan 5 the day before  he made his monthly payment of £900. 
In any event, there  is another consideration  I need to take into account here. As Ive said above, there 
may come a stage where Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful  even if the loans  appeared to be affordable on paper. And so 
Uncle Buck should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Ref: DRN56227964Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 5. 
I say this because:
Mr H had been indebted to Uncle Buck for over a year, and this was the fifth loan 
hed taken. 
Mr Hs first loan was for £300 and loan 5 was for £700. At this point Uncle Buck  
ought to have known that Mr H was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary  
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle Buck. Loan  8 
was taken out nearly two years after Mr Hs first. And it was for a larger  amount. 
Mr H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Uncle Buck  
over an extended  period.
I think  that Mr H lost out because Uncle  Buck continued  to provide borrowing  from loan 5 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging  Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative implications on his ability  to access mainstream  credit and so 
kept him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans  5 to 8 and Uncle Buck  should  put things right.
Uncle Buck considers it may not be in Mr Hs best interests to remove all information  about  loans 6 to 
8 from his credit file, because other lenders wont have a full picture of his borrowing history. But as 
Ive already said, I consider  the nature  of Mr Hs loans  with Uncle  Buck may prevent Mr H from 
accessing mainstream  credit. So Im satisfied that Uncle Buck should put things right in line with the 
instructions below.
putting things  right  what Uncle Buck needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr H paid on loans 5 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 5 onwards  means any information recorded 
about them is adverse.  So all entries about loans  5 to 8 should  be removed  from 
Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to partially uphold  Mr Hs complaint.  I intend to direct Uncle  
Buck Finance LLP to pay Mr H compensation  as set out above.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5622796