K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited didnt pay her the 
settlement she was offered under her motor insurance policy following the total loss of her 
car. She wants the offer honoured.  
background
Ms Ws car was deemed to be beyond economical  repair following an accident. She said 
Watfords agent offered her £3,025  in settlement  of her claim. But Watford  later offered her 
£2,025. Ms W was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She listened to the 
call between  Ms W and the agent. In the call, she heard that Ms W was told that the value of 
her car had increased  from £1,900  to £2,025. And so Ms W wasnt offered £3,025. The 
investigator also checked the valuation offered. And she thought this was fair and 
reasonable. 
Ms W replied that the investigator had misheard what shed been offered  in the call. She 
thought thered been another call that should  be listened to. She wanted  her complaint 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint  relates  to the settlement of a claim, I think it should be made  against  
Watford, the underwriter  of Ms Ws policy. Watford is stated as Ms Ws insurer  in her policy  
booklet. 
Ms W thought her car was worth between  £3,500  and £4,000. So I can understand that 
shes unhappy with Watfords settlement  offer. I can see that this matter has been ongoing 
since January 2019 and Ms W has yet to accept Watfords offer.
Our investigator has explained  this services approach to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
Our investigator checked the valuation offered by Watford. This was increased  from £2,025  
to £2,125 in its response to Ms Ws complaint, and she thought  this was fair and reasonable. 
Ive checked how the investigator came to this conclusion.  In assessing whether a 
reasonable offer has been made, we obtain  valuations from motor-trade guides. These are 
used for valuing second  hand  vehicles. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, 
largely because  their valuations are based  on nationwide research and likely sales  figures. 
The guides  also take into account regional variations. We also take all other  available  
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that the valuations the investigator found took into account  the make, model, age, 
condition and mileage  of Ms Ws car. The valuation that Watford offered was the highest 
provided by the trade guides.  So I think that was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN58725212Ms W provided Watford with adverts  for cars similar to hers sold for higher prices. But we 
dont find advertisements  particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking  prices  and 
arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail  selling prices. 
So I think Watfords final offer of £2,125 for the pre-accident market value of Ms Ws car is 
fair and reasonable, and I dont require  it to increase this. 
Ms W recalled that she called Watfords agent on 21 March  2019 and it offered her £3,025. 
She said she told it that shed have to discuss this with her father. When she called back  the 
following week, she was told that the offer was £2,025 and she wouldnt accept this. 
Ive listened to the call Ms W made on 21 March 2019. Ms W was told that the final offer was 
£2,025 not £3,025. There was some  background noise at the time and I can understand how 
she may have misheard this. In the call, Ms W said this was too low and shed need to 
discuss this with her father. So I think this is the call Ms W has referred  to. 
So Im satisfied that Ms W wasnt offered £3.025 in settlement of her claim. And I dont 
require Watford to honour this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5872521