K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2006.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The mortgage was taken jointly and the policy covered Mr and Mrs R if they were 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or redundancy.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I explain why below.
Both Halifax and Mr and Mrs R have told us that the PPI policy  was sold in a meeting. 
Halifax has limited paperwork available from the sale, which isnt surprising given the sale 
took place more than 12 years  ago. So I need  to think about  whats most likely to have 
happened. 
The consumers acknowledge they agreed  to take the policy out. Ive thought  about  whether 
the business made it clear that the consumers had a choice in taking out the cover. Ive 
taken into account  what I know  about how Halifax sold these policies around  this time and 
the documents we have seen in the past and Ive considered the time thats past since the 
sale. Ive also considered that the plan schedule describes the cover that the consumers had 
chosen to take out. And Ive noted  that the Product Transfer  Offer included  at section 9 a 
description of the insurances the consumers  had to take out through Halifax. It says, You  do 
not need to buy any insurance  through Halifax plc. So I think  its more likely that Halifax  got 
the agreement  of Mr and Mrs R to take the policy and that they did so knowing they had a 
choice to do so.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs R  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because  Mr and Mrs R were  eligible for the policy  and werent affected by any of 
the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover.  And Mr and Mrs R seem to have had a need  
for the cover. Mr and Mrs R told us that they would have received modest sick pay and that 
they had no other means to rely on in that circumstance. The PPI policy wouldve paid out on 
top of any sick pay Mr and Mrs R would  have received and would have covered them  for up 
to 12 months if they were  unable to work because of accident  or sickness, or if they lost a 
job. So I think Mr and Mrs R couldve  found the PPI useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
Ref: DRN56643652So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs R.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs R, Halifax  also had to give them 
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think  the policy  was 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  wouldve  stopped them from buying it. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said but these points dont  change  my 
decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund  everything Mr and Mrs R paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mr and Mrs R back  some of the cost of 
the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs R now Ive issued my final 
decision. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5664365