K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains about the poor service she received from staff of Lloyds Bank  PLC 
(Lloyds) when she went into a branch to pay in a cheque. She says the staff were rude to 
her, were  unhelpful  and accessed her personal  information without her consent.
background
In September  2018 Miss T went into a Lloyds branch to pay in a cheque.  She says the staff 
at the counter wouldnt help her and made her use an automated machine which she says 
was faulty and took a long time to process  the transaction. During this time she says the 
branch staff were rude to her and breached her confidentiality by shouting out her personal 
details. She also says other members of staff accessed her account details without her 
permission. 
Miss T complained to Lloyds about the service shed  received. She said shed been 
discriminated against and wanted action to be taken against the branch staff.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. 
Miss T didnt agree, she said we hadnt  addressed the issue  of the hostility  the staff showed 
towards her and also the fact that she wasnt able to use a cashier to pay in her cheque.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because the events complained about by Miss T happened face to face, its not possible 
for me to be certain of exactly what happened  because I wasnt  present. Ive considered 
what Miss T has said and Ive read statements from some  of the branch staff. Whilst Miss 
Ts version of events  differs from that of the branch staff,  all of the branch staffs versions are 
consistent with one another.
I havent been able to view any CCTV footage of the events complained about because this 
isnt available. So Ive based my decision on the available  evidence.
I havent been able to find any evidence  that the branch staff acted unprofessionally or in a 
hostile manner towards Miss T. I have no reason to doubt that Miss T experienced some 
issues with the IDM and I understand  how frustrating this must have been, especially as she 
says she didnt want to use it in the first place. Unfortunately,  machines can go wrong  from 
time to time. I think the bank responded reasonably by offering Miss T help at the counter  
when the IDM broke.
Ive considered the specific concerns  Miss T has raised regarding  confidentiality.  In relation 
to her personal data being shouted across the room,  and based on the information Ive been 
provided with, I cant see any reason why it would be necessary for the bank staff to do this. 
Its possible that, because  the branch was about  to close,  the cashier helping Miss T had 
logged off the system  and needed  to rely on a colleague to enter Miss Ts details. This hasnt 
been mentioned  in any of the bank  staff testimonies so I cant say for certain  this is what 
happened but its the only possible explanation I can think  of. Even then,  I havent  seen 
anything to suggest that the member of staff shouted.
Ref: DRN56633032With regard to Miss Ts complaint that more than one member of staff accessed her account,  
Im satisfied that all of the banks staff are able to access customer accounts without specific  
permission from the customer. This is because the information held by the bank is held by 
the organisation as a whole. Employees  of the bank are acting on behalf  of the organisation 
when accessing  accounts.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im unable to say that Ive seen anything to persuade  me 
that the bank has acted  unprofessionally. And even if a member of staff was rude to Miss T 
(which I havent found to be the case), its up to the bank  to decide the appropriate action to 
take. Its not the role of this service to require businesses to discipline or dismiss members of 
staff.
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im unable  to conclude that the bank acted unprofessionally 
or breached data protection regulations. Therefore  I wont  be asking the bank to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5663303