K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC would not make the changes to a standing order  he 
wanted and provided poor customer service.
background
Mr H called Lloyds to change the amount of his standing order. Lloyds told him it could not 
do that during  the call. It said he could not be verified to the security  level it required.  Lloyds  
said it would  send him a security code to allow him to do so in future. He raised a complaint 
and was unhappy to find that the complaints manager also couldnt  verify his identify when 
she spoke to him. And that the security code had not been ordered. Lloyds paid him £30 in 
compensation.
Our investigator did not recommend that Lloyds do anything further. She said that Lloyds 
could set its own processes. Mr H had not been  able to make a change  to the standing order 
 or send an additional payment over the phone. Shed heard the member  of staff tell Mr H it 
would take 15 to 20 minutes  to raise a complaint. And she did not think that the intention  had 
been to be threatening. Mr H had not been  able to answer security questions when a 
complaints manager  had phoned him. And it had not sent the security code out. She thought  
the compensation for trouble and upset  and the inconvenience was reasonable.
Mr H did not agree. He said that Lloyds did not realise the security  number  had not been 
sent out until hed told it this  that part of his complaint had been ignored.  And he never said 
he felt threatened  about the call being  recorded.  His complaint was about the hostile tone of 
the person he spoke  to, who said she could go back and check the recording. Just because 
the investigator had heard  the member of staff say how long it would take to raise  a 
complaint didnt mean he had. And he thought the impact had been downplayed by the 
investigator to trouble  and upset which meant that account had not been  taken  of him 
finding this extremely  stressful and embarrassing.  He did not think  that the outcome was 
fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the recordings of the calls Mr H had with Lloyds about this matter.  In the first 
call Lloyds told Mr H that he could not amend a standing order. And that the standing order 
that month  had been made  from his account already. The member of staff suggested  
sending the additional £15 needed  as a separate payment. But, as a payment of this type 
had not been set up to this payee before Lloyds,  wouldnt  do this either.  I fully understand 
that Mr H thought that this was unreasonable for what was a small amount. He expected  
Lloyds to find a solution for him during the call. It couldnt and he was dissatisfied about  this. 
It said to him that if he registered on its mobile app and called  it from that he could make the 
changes. But he wasnt in a position to do that then  or to log on to online banking. 
I cant find Lloyds made  a mistake by not making the change or payment  he required during 
the call. It sets its own processes and security measures to guard against possible fraud and 
it applied these here. We do not have a role in saying what processes it should follow.
Ref: DRN50873872The remainder of this call was about a complaint being set up. Like the investigator I heard 
the member of staff say it would take 15 to 20 minutes. But Mr H was talking at the same  
time and I accept he likely  did not hear this. I dont think that was obvious  to the member of 
staff. He was on hold for 12 minutes and Lloyds  said that it should have kept him updated 
and has provided  feedback to the member  of staff about this. He was told a security number 
would be ordered  for him and would take up to five days. The team manager took over the 
call and said that he would escalate the complaint  to a complaints manager.
When the complaints  manager called Mr H he could not answer security questions  and the 
call could not be continued. Again Lloyds followed its verification processes but, of course to 
Mr H these were  the subject matter of the complaint in the first place. Mr H did say on the 
call that he had not had the security number  so I agree with him that he alerted  Lloyds  to 
this as he says. Lloyds recognised it had made a mistake in not ordering this and paid him 
£30. He was then able to amend the standing order.
Im looking  at things impartially here.  And I understand the frustration Mr H felt during the 
calls. In the first he did say he was angry,  and that he thought the member of staff had a 
threatening tone.  He did not like her insisting shed told him about  how long it would take to 
raise a complaint.  Mr H said he needed to get back to work. I dont doubt  what  he says about 
how he felt about  things at that time.  
We use the trouble  and upset as a term to cover a range of impacts  from a complaint. That 
does include  distress  and the inconvenience caused. And we publish guidance  about  this. 
Ive taken that guidance into account  and what Mr H has said.  Im deciding  whats  
reasonable to reflect  what happened  here  as Ive described above. Having done so I 
consider that Lloyds  resolution to this complaint  is sufficient and Im afraid I wont  be 
requiring it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Lloyds Bank PLC need  do 
no more than it has already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5087387