K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that The Co-operative Bank  Plc let him down when  it didnt place a block  on 
his account after he carried out a series  of gambling  transactions.
Mr I wants The Co-op to refund the gambling transactions.
background
Mr I has a bank account with The Co-op.  Over the course of one evening  in November 2018, 
Mr I spent around £2,000  online gambling.  Mr I says that he was in a hypnotic state due to 
the medication he was taking.
Mr I says that it was unusual for him to make a large  number of deposits to the online 
gambling site. Mr I said that previously The Co-op  had blocked  a transaction to an online 
auction site  indicating that it would take this step in other circumstances. 
The Co-op doesnt agree that it should  uphold Mr Is complaint. The Co-op says that it wasnt  
unusual for Mr I to gamble  online with the particular  business. It says that it did go on to 
block two payments to the online gambling  site but that Mr I didnt respond to the message 
that it had left about the transactions.
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Is complaint be upheld. He thought The Co-ops  
explanation that their automated fraud detection system wouldnt necessarily have flagged  
the transactions as unusual was reasonable. 
Mr I sent this service a letter from his GP detailing his medical history. But the investigator 
still didnt consider it was fair to require The Co-op to refund  the transactions as even if Mr I 
didnt fully understand the nature of the transactions, there  wasnt any dispute  that hed 
authorised them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first of all like to say that Im sorry to hear about the problems that Mr I has faced 
with online  gambling.  And I can understand why he feels that The Co-op should have taken 
steps that might have  prevented him from using his card. However, like the investigator  I 
dont consider that its reasonable  to require The Co-op to refund any of the transactions and 
I will explain  why.
Although Mr I has pointed  to other instances  when The Co-op has blocked payments to the 
online auction site and then later to the online gambling site, I need to consider what  
happened in the circumstances of this current complaint. That means Im only looking at 
whether The Co-op  made a mistake when it didnt block some of the gambling  transactions  
on the night in question in November  2018.
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that Mr I had told The Co-op beforehand that he had 
a problem with gambling. And I cant see that Mr I didnt have the available  funds in his 
account to make the transactions.
Ref: DRN51656332From looking  at Mr Is bank statements,  the online gambling transactions  over a number of 
hours in November 2018  although  more frequent  and for larger amounts  werent out of 
character. For example I can see in July 2018 that Mr I carried out about nine transactions in 
the same  day with the same online gambling  business. Overall, Mr I appears to have been a 
regular and frequent customer of the online gambling business.
So I cant reasonably  say that the online gambling transactions  should  have appeared out of 
the ordinary and therefore been picked up by The Co-ops fraud detection  system  or flagged 
up as unusual activity  sooner than it did.
Mr I has given us a letter from his GP detailing some  of his mental health problems. Im very 
sorry to learn of the struggles that Mr I has faced over a long period of time. But Im satisfied  
that Mr I authorised the online  gambling payments. The usual  position  is that if a payment is 
authorised  as they were here  the business  should make the payment in line with the 
instructions it has been given. 
I appreciate that my decision is likely  to disappoint  Mr I but I cant  reasonably conclude that 
The Co-op did anything  wrong. So I dont require  it to refund any money to Mr I.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5165633