K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs W have said Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2004. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. 
The policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP). A TMPP can be made up of three different elements  a PPI policy, life cover 
and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover can be added or taken out 
as the consumer wishes.
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy  called Mortgage 
Repayment Cover - which  covered accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment - 
not the life or critical illness cover.
As they were jointly insured, if either of them made a successful claim, the policy 
would have paid out half of the repayment  benefit  for up to 24 months.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax doesnt have  much of the paperwork from that time, which isnt surprising considering  
the sale took place almost  15 years ago. So I need  to decide what I think is most  likely to 
have happened.
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear  to consumers that the policy was optional and they would have  been  asked for 
their consent  to the cover.
So with the limited information  I have available to me I think  its more likely that
Mr and Mrs W knew the policy was optional and they agreed to buy it, knowing they could 
refuse if they didnt  want it, even if they dont remember  that now many years  later.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Ref: DRN56661492For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr and Mrs Ws repayments for up to 24 months per claim if 
they became too ill to work, or if they became unemployed. Mr W has told us he would not 
have received any sick pay from his employer at the time of sale. But I still think the PPI 
would have been useful to them. As there couldve  been serious consequences of not 
keeping up repayments  on a debt secured against  their home,  if Mr and Mrs W couldnt work  
or lost their job then the PPI meant their monthly mortgage payments wouldve been  met. So 
I think the PPI policy couldve been  helpful  to her.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. But 
Halifax will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said but these points dont change my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax  should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs W any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs W the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax  should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN56661493Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5666149