K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  with the way Union Reiseversicherung  AG handled their claim.
background 
Mr and Mrs R had travel medical insurance  with URV. They  were  on holiday in Italy in 
September 2018, when Mr R slipped  in the shower and fractured the neck  of his right femur.  
Mr R was taken to hospital where he required  urgent treatment. The treating doctor initially  
didnt want to operate on Mr R due to complications with his health and so suggested Mr R 
be repatriated back to the U.K for treatment. But URV  didnt agree and so the operation went 
ahead in Italy on 4 October   some 16 days after the accident. 
Mr and Mrs R said URV  failed  to handle their claim effectively and offered a level of service 
that endangered Mr Rs life. They  said there were several occasions where it caused 
unnecessary delays and said they failed to maintain regular contact with them. Mr and Mrs R 
also said URVs decision to repatriate  Mr R by road ambulance was dangerous and 
unsuitable. They explained that URVs lack of attention had a severe impact on Mr Rs 
health and that hes still not fully recovered from the ordeal. 
They would like the insurer to accept full responsibility for the errors it made and pay for all 
associated claims costs,  including compensation that commensurate with the damage 
caused by its negligence.    
URV agreed  it caused some delays at the beginning of the claim, particularly when it had 
attempted to obtain medical records from the wrong  hospital. It also acknowledged  there 
were some delays returning calls to Mr and Mrs R and said this was because of its increased  
work volumes. It offered them £250 compensation  and said that overall, the poor quality of 
care Mr R received was down to the treating hospital and therefore not something it should 
be held responsible for. 
Our investigator felt URV handled things poorly.  She found in favour  of Mr and Mrs R and 
upheld their complaint,  awarding £7,000 compensation.  She said;  
URV failed to handle  the claim proactively and noted there were  periods where very 
little appeared  to be happening. 
She found that URV didnt  take necessary steps  to ensure an Italian speaker could 
engage with the treating doctor at the hospital; 
URV appeared to abandon plans to repatriate Mr R  even though the Italian hospital  
had refused to treat him  essentially leaving him without any form of support;  
URV failed to maintain regular contact with Mrs R; 
URV failed to recognise  both Mr and Mrs R were vulnerable and in turn that it failed 
to adapt the level of support it offered; 
She explained URV should also cover the costs associated with one person to come 
and support Mrs R throughout that time. 
URV didnt  accept our investigators findings. In summary, it said;
Ref: DRN55798182It cannot be held accountable for the overall  conditions at the Italian hospital. It 
further clarified that the hospital had a duty of care to treat its patient, notwithstanding 
any financial matters  meaning  if Mr R needed an urgent  operation,  then it was the 
hospitals duty to make sure this happened. URV  reiterated that it should not be held 
responsible for this not happening   irrespective of whether it confirmed cover in 
good time. 
It was necessary to consider repatriation by road ambulance and air ambulance 
because this was a time sensitive  issue. URV  accepted it gave misleading 
information to Mrs R in that it was only considering repatriation by air. It settled on 
road ambulance  to avoid further  delays  and because  it felt this was most appropriate 
given Mr Rs overall condition. URV  said the air ambulance option would have meant 
Mr Rs stretcher would have been  subjected to several uncomfortable manoeuvres 
which would have  caused him pain.  It suggested  the two-and-a-half-day road transfer 
was a much more comfortable  option. 
It accepted that the lack of proactivity  contributed to the overall distress caused  to 
Mr and Mrs R and that it was sorry for that. URV made a counter compensatory  offer 
of £4023.47. This included the cost of flying Mrs Rs best friend to support her at that 
time. 
Mr and Mrs R rejected  URVs offer and so its now for me to make  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  and my reasons for doing  so are largely in line with those already 
explained by our investigator. Our investigators  opinion on this complaint is very detailed 
and I agree with all the points she made.  And so, in terms of my final decision,  Ill simply 
address what I consider  to be the key areas  where URV failed to handle their claim promptly 
and fairly,  as this is its responsibility under the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook  
(ICOBS)  
URV accepted that it didnt return Mr and Mrs Rs phone  calls promptly, or at times, at all. It 
said this was because  of its increased  work volumes at the time. To be clear, I understand 
the point URV is attempting  to make here, but I dont think  its a reasonable argument. 
Mr and Mrs R were in a vulnerable position, in a foreign country and unable to speak the 
language. They were relying on support from their insurer to help them at this difficult time. 
And so URV, not being present in the way that it should have been, had a serious impact on 
Mr and Mrs Rs ability to communicate  and discuss potential treatment options with the 
hospital.  Further, Mr and Mrs R have described feeling abandoned throughout this experience by 
URV and that this added  to the overall  trouble and upset at the time.  
Unnecessary and lengthy  delays were  prevalent throughout the life of Mr and Mrs Rs claim.  
There were several times where URV appeared not to take any action when Id have 
expected it to. The system notes confirmed on 27 September that the treating doctor didnt 
want to treat Mr R. And so URV  was considering  moving him to another hospital or whether  
to fly him home for treatment. But then nothing else happened until almost  three  weeks later, 
Ref: DRN55798183when the treating hospital sent URV  an updated medical report. The report  outlined the 
hospital had treated Mr R on 4 October  and that he was ready to fly home.
This was a significant  failing on URVs part and was not the level of service Mr and Mrs R 
were entitled  to expect  under their contract of insurance.  URV should have maintained  
regular contact with Mr and Mrs R during this time and taken a much more  proactive role in 
arranging his treatment  or repatriation. I think  its worth highlighting that ICOBS also says the 
insurer should provide reasonable guidance  to the insured throughout the claim. Instead, 
Mr and Mrs R, their family, a member of staff from the hotel they were  staying at and the 
British consulate were  the main  driving force behind arranging treatment and liaising with the 
medical staff. They also appeared to be the conduit between the hospital and URV when 
attempting to arrange Mr Rs repatriation which I consider unfair.  
Unfortunately, things didnt improve after this as URV continued to handle things poorly. 
Mrs R had informed it several times  that the treating hospital didnt speak English. This 
made things  incredibly difficult for them both to communicate with staff. I take on board 
URVs comments that this wasnt its fault, but I think given it was aware of what 
Mr and Mrs R were going through and that they were particularly vulnerable,  Id have 
expected it to adapt to their needs and support them through this ordeal. 
URV was demonstrably ill prepared to handle  this situation and made  no attempt to source 
an Italian-speaker so it could effectively communicate with the hospital. Instead, it continually  
tried to engage the hospital in English. The hospital then stopped  engaging with URV 
altogether which should  have prompted  URV to perhaps consider another  approach,  but this 
didnt happen.   
Mr and Mrs R have made many arguments  about  the condition  of the hospital they were left 
in. And to echo our investigators reasons, Im unable to consider that part of their complaint 
as URV  isnt responsible for the standard of care in a foreign hospital.  But thats not to say I 
cannot consider  the impact of URVs  actions. I say that because it was fully aware of how 
Mr and Mrs R felt about the hospital they were staying in and the level of care Mr R was 
receiving. 
URV could  have instructed an agent to help support Mr and Mrs R, particularly as it was 
aware of the difficulties  they were facing.  It also could have sent a private nurse  to gain a 
better understanding of Mr Rs overall condition as communication with the hospital had 
broken down. 
Id have expected to see a more proactive and timely approach  in the circumstances of this 
case. URVs actions caused lengthy and unnecessary delays, which in turn, impacted Mr Rs 
overall health and recovery.  I know this because  when  they returned  to the U.K. Mr R was 
admitted straight  back into hospital where he stayed  for a number of weeks.  
Ive seen the hospital report which outlined  all the medical conditions  Mr R was suffering 
with. He acquired some potentially life threatening conditions like hospital-acquired 
pneumonia (from the Italian hospital) a heart murmur,  fluid around the heart, bed sores,  a 
pressure ulcer on his foot, malnourishment, operation staples still in place with skin growth 
over the top, anaemia, severe  eczema  and an infection caused by the catheter  that had 
been left unchanged since his admission  to the Italian hospital on 18 September. All of this 
suggests to me that URV ought to have  taken a much more proactive approach to getting 
Mr R to somewhere better equipped  to deal with his condition. 
Ref: DRN55798184Its important to keep  in mind that Mr R was initially admitted to hospital with a fracture  on 
the neck of his right femur. Because of the language  barrier,  the lack of care shown  by URV 
and its failure to proactively support Mr and Mrs R, they were unnecessarily exposed to 
danger for an unreasonably lengthy  period. And since  his return to the U.K. Mr R has 
suffered a heart  attack  and subsequently had to have a pace-maker  installed.  
Further, the medical notes available from the NHS suggest these conditions  stemmed from 
his extended stay in the Italian hospital. So, I think its fair to say that had URV  acted  in the 
way Id have expected  an insurer  to, and dealt with his claim promptly and fairly, then he 
would have made it home sooner  and therefore  more safely. 
The repatriation back to the U.K. wasnt  a pleasant journey. Mr and Mrs R were  taken,  by 
road ambulance, from the Italian hospital, to mainland Italy, where they then faced a two-
and-a-half-day journey back to the U.K. Im persuaded  by Mr and Mrs Rs testimony that this 
was a terrible experience. URV has since explained that this was medically necessary to 
repatriate Mr R this way and has provided  some  rationale behind its decision.  
It said there wasnt availability for an air ambulance  at the time,  but thats not what  the 
evidence suggested.  The Italian hospital said Mr R was ready to be repatriated from 
9 October and even  if I consider URVs difference of opinion here, it still would have meant  
Mr R could have been repatriated from 14 October. The evidence Ive seen suggested there 
was an air ambulance available on 15 and 16 October. And so URVs  decision  to repatriate 
Mr R by road on 17 October means it made  a conscious decision  not to use an air 
ambulance and its rationale  for doing so was unclear.
URV gave  some general comments about  major skeletal injuries and that this type of injury  
poses a serious threat to health.  Its subsequently  said that Mr Rs age and the infection he 
had at the time amplified the risks of flight.  But I should highlight  that URV was unaware that 
Mr R was suffering an infection at this time as this was only discovered  upon his admittance  
to hospital back  home.  URV went on to suggest  that manoeuvring the stretcher into the air 
ambulance was also another reason why this wasnt appropriate. It said that ground  
transfers reduce  any risks to an absolute minimum and that this was the best option  for 
Mr R. 
Ive carefully considered  its argument here with how Mr and Mrs R described their 
experience, and with the NHS  hospitals notes  about Mr Rs health when he arrived. But Im 
less persuaded  that Mr Rs safety  was the main priority here. I say that because Ive not 
seen any medical  evidence from URVs chief medical officer,  giving any real detail behind 
the decision to repatriate by road  other than generic comments from the case handler. 
What is clear is that Mr R needed to stay in hospital for a further  three weeks  in intensive 
care upon  being  admitted to the NHS. And so, Im less persuaded by URVs comments that 
a-two-and-half day road ambulance would have  been a safer  option  compared to a two-hour 
commercial flight, or an air ambulance. I say that because I dont think  URV  has adequately 
explained why it thought  a road repatriation journey was more suitable.
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs R werent  treated fairly  by their insurer.  This had an extreme  
impact on both Mr and Mrs Rs health and particularly Mr Rs recovery. Hes continued to be 
under the care of his local hospital,  and I think this experience will have, undoubtedly, 
caused them  severe trouble and upset. Our investigators view carefully detailed the full 
impact of URVs actions and its for these reasons I agree with that recommendation. 
Ref: DRN55798185However, I should note that Ive not made  a finding on whether URV need to cover  the costs  
associated with flying a person out to support Mr and Mrs R, because this is to do with the 
settlement of the claim itself. Should  Mr and Mrs R be unhappy with the way URV has 
settled their claim, then they will need to raise this with URV, as its entitled to investigate 
their concerns about this first.     
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint for all the reasons Ive explained and so Union  
Reiseversicherung AG must now pay Mr and Mrs R;
£7,000 compensation for the severe trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5579818