K820x#14complaint
Mr M says the advice given and the arrangements made by Insight Financial  Associates 
Limited (Insight) to switch his personal  pension funds into a Rowanmoor Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  and facilitate investment in overseas property, was unsuitable and 
led to him incur a financial loss.
background
Mr M and his wife were interested in investing  in commercial property in Cape Verde. Mr M 
was an agent  for The Resort Group  (TRG). And it appears to have referred  him to Insight for 
advice about potential financing.
Insight produced a financial planning  report (FPR)  for Mr M on 4 September 2009. It records:
Your primary objective was to purchase  Cape Verde property through  your pension fund 
and the recommended  plan can do this for you.
Mr M had two personal pensions with Windsor Life. These  had a transfer  value of around 
£129k. He signed the applications necessary to release his retirement pot and switch it into a 
SIPP with Rowanmoor.
I can see from Mr Ms SIPP account statements  that there were two initial fund injections. 
The first of around £41.4k in October  2009  and the second of around £87.5k in January 
2010. These represented a deposit  on the property he was investing  in. A final payment for 
the balance outstanding appears to have been made in September  2012.
Mr M expected the property to deliver a good  level of rental income along with capital 
growth. And I can see in the FPR that with the properties planned  for completion by 2011, 
rental income was anticipated to follow shortly afterwards. But it wasnt  until May 2015  that 
Mr M began to receive income  from the property.
Mr M drew income from his SIPP in September  2016. He did so again early in 2017, but later 
in the year when  he tried to take further monies  his access was restricted. The level of cash 
in his SIPP wasnt sufficient for the instruction he gave, presumably because  the rent being 
received from the property hadnt met expectations. He says it was at this point he realised 
there was a problem.
Mr M was concerned about  what had happened. He wanted access  to his pension  funds, but 
unless he could sell the property held in his SIPP  it was clear this would be difficult.  Mr Ms 
representatives say that in giving  him advice about  and making arrangements for the SIPP  
and the investment, Insight had failed in its regulatory duties. 
Insight noted Mr M was an agent  for TRG  at the time it gave him advice and that he was a 
self-employed mortgage adviser. So, it says he wouldve understood how property 
investment worked,  and the risks involved.  It said his attitude  to risk was high and that it had 
made clear what risks were associated with the transaction.  Insight says it wasnt 
responsible for the investments made  within Mr Ms SIPP, its role had simply been to 
identify a provider  to enable Mr M to satisfy his objectives.
Ref: DRN52344452The adjudicator didnt think Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld.  She identified failings with 
Insights advice and arrangements.  However, she believed that even if it had got things right 
and advised Mr M not to invest, he wouldve done  so anyway. Mr M disagreed and so his 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres there s conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr M case?
Mr Ms representative has correctly identified the broad  range of regulatory obligations 
placed on firms like Insight when carrying on the activities  it did.
The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
The Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving  advice to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we have 
seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to [SIPPs] that invest  wholly  or 
primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated  investments
Ref: DRN52344453Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this process 
means they do not have to consider the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in 
the SIPP  and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is 
incorrect. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given  on a product which is a 
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers),  consideration of the 
suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper  and the expected underlying  investments 
in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account  the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension product,  
including its underlying holdings, is more  suitable for the customer,  then the SIPP is not suitable. 
This is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items you cannot  separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements. 
There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and Conduct of Business  rules.
So, did Insight adhere to the regulatory  requirements placed on it?
In short,  I dont think Insight met the regulatory  requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Insight had to obtain information  from Mr M in order to understand essential  facts about him. 
In order to advise  him to switch his personal  pensions into the SIPP with Rowanmoor and 
facilitate investment in the Cape Verde development, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ms investment objectives 
(including his attitude  to risk, the purpose of investing and how long he wanted  to 
invest for).
-Mr M was able to financially withstand  the investment risks.
-Mr M had the necessary experience  or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
From reading the case file, its not clear  to me that Insight met these obligations. For 
example, the fact-find completed  in August 2009  is largely incomplete. No details are 
captured about Mr Ms income, outgoings,  assets,  liabilities or health. Instead,  the following  
statement is typically found on most pages of the document:
Not disclosed to Insight, as you deal with your own finances
We can glean some information  from the fact-find. Its recorded that Mr M had an attitude to 
risk that was high  but he didnt complete a risk questionnaire. He wanted to retire at 75 and 
his priority then was to maintain  his standard of living. 
It seems  to me that information Insight  derived  from the fact-find  process provided a 
precarious base from which to offer advice about  such an important  transaction.
Its clear Mr M was referred to Insight for advice about moving his personal  pensions to a 
SIPP so he could invest in high risk overseas property. Insight knew  what he was 
contemplating, but says it wasn't responsible for the investment  advice.
I disagree with the argument Insight makes. The regulatory position is clear. It had a duty to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally  in the best interests of Mr M. And to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable.  It couldnt do this without considering the 
suitability of the investments being  proposed.
Ref: DRN52344454My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January  2013. 
And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr M, it wasnt  new guidance; it 
was the regulator re-stating the position.
Insight couldnt  ignore  Mr Ms intention of investing  in overseas property. If it didnt consider 
this to be suitable in his circumstances, it should  have said so - rather than presuming that 
the transfer was necessary for this to happen.  It had a duty to consider the suitability of the 
whole transaction,  not simply limit its advice to choosing  the best SIPP provider.  
Mr M was switching  his only disclosed pension funds to the SIPP for investment in overseas 
property. The investment was high risk and posed liquidity  issues  at a point when Mr M was 
nearing what would be considered by many to be normal retirement age. Theres  little 
evidence he was a sophisticated investor.
Insight couldnt  seek to exclude  or restrict any duty or liability  it had to Mr M. It had an 
obligation to consider the suitability of the investment he was considering, and it couldnt  
avoid this by asking Mr M to sign terms of business  instructing it to only consider the 
pension switch in isolation, or by implying  such in documentation such  as the FPR.
I agree  with Mr Ms representative  that Insight fell short of its regulatory obligations to Mr M. 
And although I also agree with it that there  were  other failings with the advice process 
beyond those Ive identified, I dont think these need  to be rehearsed.  Thats  because  Ive 
already found  the process Insight  followed, the advice  it gave  and the arrangements it made  
for the switch of Mr Ms personal  pensions  into a SIPP enabling his investment in overseas 
property was unsuitable.
Did Insights failures result in a financial loss to Mr M?
Having concluded  that it was responsible for significant failures in its dealings with Mr M, I 
must now consider  what wouldve happened  but for Insight recommending  the switch of his 
pension.
Its often the case that when a regulated business advises an inexperienced  consumer  not to 
switch their pension, more often than not theyd take the professionals  advice. But its not 
always that straight-forward.
As well as getting advice  from Insight,  Im mindful Mr M was also dealing with TRG as the 
promoter of the Cape  Verde investment. The FPR produced for Mr M in September  2009 
recorded the following:
You were introduced to me from The Resort Group with whom you have purchased  a 
Cape Verde commercial  property. As a financial adviser yourself you have  decided  to 
purchase and fund this through the recommendation of The Resort  Group  via a Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).  You have  requested  my advice  and recommendation in only 
finding the most suitable SIPP provider that will enable you to purchase this property and I 
can confirm I have  not provided  you with advice or recommendation  in relation to the SIPP 
being the most suitable vehicle to facilitate the property acquisition.
This seems to indicate  Mr M was already committed to some extent to buying  a property. 
Indeed, the FPR Insight  provided said the following  about its recommendation to switch  his 
pension funds from his then existing provider:
 I have  recommended  this pension be transferred, for the following reasons: 
Ref: DRN52344455-You wanted to use your pension fund to purchase the commercial property and this 
plan does not offer that facility.
-Whilst this pension  plan offers a reasonable range of internal and externally 
managed pension funds, from which you could build a suitable portfolio to match  your 
attitude to risk, you have confirmed  that you do not wish to take this approach  to 
saving for your retirement and have instead opted  to use the funds to purchase 
overseas property via a SIPP contract.
Mr M was a mortgage adviser who worked  on a self-employed basis  through an adviser 
network. He dealt with residential and buy-to-let mortgages. He held professional  
qualifications, which hed achieved earlier in his career with a large firm.
Mr M was engaged as an agent for TRG  by the time his dealings with Insight  took place. 
This meant he enjoyed  certain benefits, including  a reservation fee waiver he received  on his 
own investment. But it seems to me this was of secondary importance,  I think  his role as an 
agent was significant for more telling reasons.
I accept Mr M wasnt professionally  qualified to give pension or investment advice. However, 
I do think he wouldve had a better than average  understanding of the dealings  he was 
involved in. After all, he was selling the same properties he wanted to invest in to other  
customers. He recalls selling to a dozen  or so people.
It doesnt seem credible to me that in making these  high value  sales  he didnt get to grips  
with the product. I think he wouldve or shouldve been aware of the risks associated with the 
proposal given  his position with TRG and his professional background.
This is especially the case given what the FPR he received set out in clear terms:
I have made you aware  that the purchase  of a SIPP and utilising only the investment of a 
commercial property such as your Cape Verde  property' is high risk, taking account of 
factors such  as the lack of liquidity of the property asset and you have only one asset class. 
You stated  this is suitable to fulfil your objective  of purchasing the Cape Verde property and 
are aware of the associated risks involved.
I consider it more likely  than not that even if Insight  had advised against transferring his 
pensions to the SIPP, Mr M wouldve still arranged the pension switch and investment in 
Cape Verde, by other  means if necessary. I think the transaction  would either have been 
arranged on an insistent  client basis or, failing that, Mr M wouldve sought to transfer his 
pension to a SIPP without the involvement  of an adviser.
I say this because  notwithstanding Insights failure to provide suitable  advice, which  should 
have been an explicit recommendation not to proceed with the investment, it did nonetheless 
provide Mr M with the FPR which made  clear  that the investment Mr M wanted to make was 
high risk. I think he wouldve understood  the warnings in the report, which were essentially 
an implicit guide not to proceed.  There were  several warnings, including  as follows:
I also wish to emphasise the risk when purchasing any form of property that the developer 
could go bust,  this would result  in you losing your deposit monies. You have  acknowledged  
your understanding of this risk and you remain convinced that utilising a SIPP  to purchase 
commercial properly is an option you wish to pursue.
Ref: DRN52344456 As discussed with your financial adviser  this is a high risk product and therefore your risk 
profile will match this. It is a characteristic  of all property that the property  may not be readily 
saleable, thus investors  may not always be able to realise their investments exactly when 
and as quickly as they choose to. You are aware that virtually your total investment portfolio  
will be invested in property however this does  not concern you.
I think Mr M ought  reasonably to have inferred from the FPR that Insight was not endorsing 
his decision to pursue  the investment; that it was high risk and overly  concentrated in one 
asset class; that such investments were subject  to development risks and likely to be illiquid;  
and that by switching his pension funds into the SIPP  to facilitate the investment, he was 
giving up more certain benefits.
In the event, Mr M chose  to disregard these warnings. As far as Im aware, he didnt 
challenge or question any of the content  of the FPR. In my view,  this was because he was 
determined to proceed with the investment irrespective of any advice, whether explicit or 
implicit, not to do so.
In responding  to the adjudicator, Mr Ms representative noted  that in the year prior to his 
dealings with Insight  theres a record of his former financial adviser noting he had concerns 
about how his pension funds were being invested  at that time.  And that he wanted to move 
into less volatile funds.  It draws on this as evidence that the investment he made  in Cape 
Verde was contrary to this stated strategy.
I dont see it in the same way. I think it shows that despite being informed about  how his then 
pension funds were  being invested and the conversation  hed had with a former financial 
adviser about his future strategy, hed subsequently decided and was determined to use his 
funds to invest in overseas  property. Thats why he never challenged the strong warnings  in 
the FPR delivered by Insight.
So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable, in all the circumstances  of this case, for me to hold 
Insight accountable for Mr Ms concerns about his Cape Verde property investment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. It follows I dont 
require Insight Financial  Associates  Limited  to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5234445