K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC acted irresponsibly by giving her a credit card 
and increasing  her credit limit from £3,000 to £11,000 over the next few years.
background
Mrs C took out a credit card with Barclays in January  2013.  Barclays increased her credit 
limit several times over the next few years. By May 2016 her credit  limit was £11,000.
Mrs C says that Barclays acted irresponsibly, given her salary  and debt with other lenders. 
She says that she was left with a high level of debt that she couldnt afford to repay. Her 
husband has borrowed money to clear Mrs Cs credit card debt. 
Barclays says it completed the relevant checks and Mrs C met its lending  criteria. It says that 
it had no reason to believe Mrs C was struggling financially when it increased her credit limit. 
She had regularly paid at least  her minimum payment by the due date and kept within the 
credit limit. It says it wrote to Mrs C in advance of the credit limit increasing. She would have 
had the opportunity to stop the increase going  ahead and also to reduce the limit back down.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 August 2019 where I explained  why I intended to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far Im 
planning to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Before it gave Mrs C the credit card, Barclays was required to check that she would be able 
to afford to make the repayments  in a sustainable  manner. This means it needed to check  
that she was in a position  to repay what she borrowed in a reasonable period  of time, without 
undue difficulty (for example, by getting  into further debt).
Barclays has shared the information it used to assess whether or not the credit card was 
affordable for Mrs C in January 2013. Its told us that her income was £8,000 a year  which  
means her monthly income was around £666.  The information Barclays  has provided shows 
that Mrs C had total debts  of £22,567 (excluding her mortgage). Her debts included two 
loans with a combined monthly repayment of £455.  She had another credit  card account and 
two mail order  accounts. And she was also overdrawn on her two current accounts. Mrs C 
had joint responsibility  for a mortgage  which had repayments of £598 a month. This means 
that Mrs Cs existing financial  commitments  already exceeded  her income before taking 
other essential outgoings (food, utility bills, council tax etc) into account. 
When it made its decision to lend to her, Barclays seems to have focused on the likelihood 
of Mrs C making repayments on her card. But this isnt sufficient, according to the relevant 
industry rules. It also needed  to consider  if Mrs C would have been able to repay  her debt 
over a reasonable period  of time,  if shed  spent up to her credit  limit. Given Mrs Cs income,  
financial commitments  and existing  debt, I dont think  this was likely. So I dont think 
Barclays decision to give Mrs C the credit  card was reasonable or responsible.
Ref: DRN54857032I can see that Mrs C did manage to pay at least her minimum repayments most  months  once 
the card had been issued to her. But this doesnt mean that her credit card borrowing was 
affordable. Mrs C has told us that she was sometimes using borrowing from other  lenders to 
do this. And in any event,  paying just above the minimum (as Mrs C usually did) wouldnt 
have enabled  her to repay what shed borrowed over a reasonable period of time. 
Barclays has given us a brief breakdown of the information it used when it decided to 
increase Mrs Cs credit limit. Based on what its shown us about the checks  it did at each  
increase, I dont think these were  sufficient either.  But I wont  address these in detail here as 
Im satisfied Mrs Cs initial application  shouldnt have been approved.
Mrs C has had to pay interest  and charges on her credit card because of Barclays  decision 
to lend to her. So I intend to tell Barclays to reimburse her for these. Mrs C has also told us 
that this has had a negative  effect on her mood, sleep patterns and relationship with her 
family. So I intend to award an additional  £250  for the distress this has caused her.
As Mrs C should not have  been given the credit card,  I also intend to direct Barclays  to 
remove any adverse data from her credit  file.
responses
Mrs C said she didnt have any further  comments and was happy  for the account to be 
closed. Barclays agreed to settle  the complaint in line with what Id said in my provisional  
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  said they accept my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Barclays  Bank UK PLC to:
reconstruct Mrs Cs credit  card account to remove all interest and charges;
apply Mrs Cs repayments to the account;
if this means the debt would have been paid off at some point and/or Mrs C has made 
repayments she wouldnt have otherwise  made, then Barclays should refund those 
payments with 8% simple interest  from the date she would have paid off the debt until 
she gets the refund*.
pay an additional  £250 to recognise the distress  caused.
remove any adverse information relating to Mrs Cs credit card account from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mrs C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN54857033It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mrs C has accepted my final decision.
Barclays should also close Mrs Cs credit card account if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.  
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5485703