K822xcomplaint
Mr B says Ferratum UK Ltd (Ferratum), irresponsibly lent to him. Mr B says Ferratum  
shouldnt have lent to him because  of his poor credit rating.  He says he had to borrow  from 
other lenders to repay  his debts with Ferratum and borrow from Ferratum  to repay other  
lenders. 
background
This complaint is about six loans Ferratum provided to Mr B between  March and November 
2018. Mr Bs borrowing  history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 20/03/18 29/03/18 1   £70.00   £90.72
2 26/04/18 18/05/18 1 £210.00 £258.72
3 27/05/18 26/06/18 1 £300.00 £369.60
4 26/06/18 26/07/18 4 £400.00 £167.37
5 06/11/18 19/11/18 1 £100.00 £113.60
6 20/11/18 29/11/18 4 £400.00 £170.49
In its response to Mr Bs complaint, Ferratum  didnt agree it had irresponsibly lent to him. But 
it did offer him £120.00 as a gesture of goodwill  in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
Mr B didnt accept the offer and brought his complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint.  He didnt think Ferratum had irresponsibly 
lent to Mr B for loans  one, two and four to six. But he thought  loan three shouldnt have been  
given as he didn't  think  Mr B could have made the repayments without any undue difficulty. 
Ferratum accepted the adjudicators assessment and offered to repay  interest and charges 
for loan three.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said it was clear from the outset that if 
Ferratum had looked at his financial position  it would have seen it shouldnt  have lent to him.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN53724192But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. I wont  be making  a decision about 
loan three  as Ferratum  has already offered to uphold the complaint about this loan. 
So in this decision Ill be considering whether it was reasonable for Ferratum to have lent to 
Mr B for loans one, two, and four to six. 
After consideration,  I dont  think Ferratum was wrong to lend to Mr B for these five loans. I 
know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision  and Im aware he has been waiting a long 
time, for which I apologise   so Ill explain how Ive reached this conclusion.
Given what Mr B told Ferratum about his income, I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for Ferratum to have asked Mr B for further information for loan one that would  
be needed to show that the lending was unsustainable for him. As explained above, at the 
beginning of a borrowing  relationship, it would  be proportionate to carry less through checks. 
Our adjudicator concluded that for loans two, four, five and six he didn't think  Ferratum had 
done enough to show the checks it had carried out were proportionate. This could include 
finding out details about Mr Bs monthly  expenditure and any other financial commitments, 
which would have included  any other loan repayments. 
Ref: DRN53724193Like the adjudicator,  I have considered  whether Mr Bs borrowings were  affordable,  in spite 
of Ferratum not having carried  out proportionate checks or necessarily having Mr Bs 
complete income  and expenditure  information. For all the loan applications,  Mr B confirmed 
that his monthly  income was £1,501 (slightly lower  in some months according to his bank  
statement) as well as the monthly contribution  his partner made towards  household  
outgoings (£470)  and he gave us details  of his monthly household expenditure (around 
£960). He also provided us with his bank  statements.
Mr B didn't  have any overlapping  loans  with Ferratum so he wasnt  making repayments for 
more than one loan at a time. And taking into account the other short-term repayments 
evidenced by his bank statements Im satisfied  that his after his outgoings Mr B was left with 
sufficient disposable  income each month 
So overall, in the particular circumstances  of Mr Bs complaint,  while I dont think Ferratum  
carried out sufficient  proportionate checks, particularly where a borrowing pattern had 
started to emerge around the time of the later borrowing, the information  we have about 
Mr Bs financial position  doesnt suggest  that the borrowing was unaffordable. After paying  
his monthly financial  commitments,  he was left with sufficient disposable income. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with the outcome to his complaint, but I hope my 
explanation has helped explain how I have reached the conclusion  that I have. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint 
about loans one and two, and four to six. Ferratum UK Ltd has already offered to pay 
redress for loan three.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5372419