K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Walker Crips Investment Management Limited invested the funds 
in his self-invested personal pension (SIPP).  Mr W says the investment choices made by 
Walker Crips  lost him money. He wants compensation for these losses. 
background
Mr W opened a SIPP during 2005  through  a financial adviser. It seems that he originally 
traded stocks and shares using a high street bank. But the bank wouldnt let him carry on 
using his trading  account through his SIPP. Mr Ws financial adviser then introduced  him 
socially to an investment broker who Ill call Mr M. Mr W then began  using the broker to buy 
and sell shares via his SIPP on an execution only basis   that is, he used Mr M to buy and 
sell shares for him only on his instruction. 
In 2010 Mr Ws financial  adviser  recommended he moved  his SIPP  to a different provider. 
This was to save money on SIPP fees. By this time, Mr M was working for a different 
investment broker, Walker Crips. A new SIPP was opened with a provider who Ill call CP. 
The investments in the old SIPP were  then transferred to the CP SIPP. The value of the 
transfer was around  £84,000. The large  majority of this was made  up of an investment in 
one company. Mr W was employed by this company in a very senior  position.  
Walker Crips  were then appointed as investment managers for the new CP SIPP,  with Mr M 
looking after Mr Ws investments. Unlike the previous SIPP, Mr M had a discretionary  
mandate for the CP SIPP. This meant he had the discretion to decide which  shares to buy 
and sell, on Mr Ws behalf,  without  first getting his authority to do so. This arrangement 
excluded the shares  Mr W held in the company he worked for.               
From November 2010 regular monthly  pension contributions were paid into the CP SIPP. 
These ranged from £370.66  to £1,033.33 each month, with the average contribution being 
towards the upper end of this range. Once the SIPP opened, Walker Crips made various 
investments for Mr W. It also enabled Mr W to buy further shares  in the company  he worked 
for. 
At the end of 2012 / beginning of 2013, the investments Mr W had in a totally different SIPP 
were also transferred to the CP SIPP. The value  of the investments in this transfer was 
around £67,000. 
In the latter  part of 2014 there was a change  in Mr Ws personal  and employment  
circumstances. This meant  Mr W left his job. I wont  go into the details  here to protect Mr Ws 
privacy. The pension contributions to the CP SIPP also stopped at this time. 
By October  2015  Mr W began  to question his risk profile with Walker Crips. He said he was 
trying to understand the risk profile that was agreed. Mr M replied saying the account  was 
being run on a high risk basis  with the aim of capital growth. 
In March 2016 Mr W complained about how his investment portfolio had been handled by 
Walker Crips. He was unhappy that the current value of his investments at that time, 
excluding the non-discretionary part of his portfolio, represented a loss of nearly 50%. 
Walker Crips  replied saying, in summary,  that the mandate  given to Mr M was to achieve 
capital growth by investing in higher risk types  of securities. It said the investments it had 
Ref: DRN51710842made were in line with the mandate given by Mr W to Mr M, and Mr W had been kept fully 
informed about  his portfolio. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service.  He said that Mr M had 
told him his account  would be run on a relatively  conservative basis.  But this hadnt  
happened. Instead, significant bets had been made on high risk stocks, and these had gone 
badly wrong. Mr W also said that even if Walker  Crips  had been justified in managing his 
portfolio on a high risk basis, the size of the trades relative to the size of the portfolio was 
unacceptable. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ws complaint. Again in summary, she thought it 
should be upheld.  The investigator said two of the investments made up almost  50% of 
Mr Ws SIPP. She thought that while Mr W did actually have a high attitude to risk, these  two 
investments were of risk levels significantly higher  than Mr W was prepared to take.  She set 
out what Walker Crips should  do to put things  right. 
Walker Crips  didnt agree  with the investigators  view. Once more in summary,  it said Mr W 
was correctly classified  as a high risk investor. Walker Crips went on to say that the two 
highlighted investments were in different  market  sectors. It also said the investment  levels  in 
these funds were due to Mr M using  his discretion to try and recover the losses in them. 
Mr W also replied  to the investigator. He said he didnt agree  that he accepted  a high risk 
profile. Mr W repeated that Mr M told him his portfolio would be run on a relatively 
conservative basis aimed at achieving  longer  term capital growth. He also said he would 
never have  invested  in the types  of funds Mr M had chosen. 
As Walker  Crips  didnt  accept the investigators view, this complaint has been  passed to me 
for a decision. I want to make it clear that I know Mr W has also complained  about  his 
financial adviser. Our service has dealt  with that separately. The complaint Im looking at is 
about the actions of Walker Crips. Im not commenting about  the financial advisers role, or 
actions, in any way at all. 
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision dated 15 August 2019. In it, I explained that Id considered 
all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I decided  not to uphold this complaint. I 
went on to explain why. 
I pointed out that I was very aware that Id summarised this complaint in far less detail and in 
my own words. I said I wasnt  going to respond  to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy was intended by this. Instead, Id focussed on what  I thought were 
the key issues  here: did Walker Crips manage Mr Ws investments  properly;  and, were  the 
investments suitable  for his circumstances? 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature of our 
service. If there was something  I hadnt mentioned, it wasnt  because Id ignored it. I hadnt. I 
was satisfied I didnt  need to comment on every  individual argument to be able to reach what 
I thought was the right outcome. 
I then turned to how Walker Crips managed Mr Ws investments, starting with his risk profile. 
Mr W had told us that he didnt agree he had a high attitude to risk. But I wasnt  satisfied this 
Ref: DRN51710843was the case.  Id looked at the client agreement form that was completed when Mr W 
appointed the investment manager for his original  SIPP. The agreement confirmed the 
investment managers  appointment on an execution only basis.  
The agreement stated  Mr Ws investment objective  as principally  capital growth. It also 
listed his risk level as high. Mr W signed this agreement in two places.  While  his signatures 
werent dated, I could  see from the available evidence that the investment manager  was 
appointed towards  the end of 2005 or beginning  of 2006. I was satisfied Mr W would have 
signed the agreement around  this time. It was certainly some  years before the start of his 
relationship with Walker Crips. 
Id also looked  at the Walker Crips account  opening  form from August  2010 when Mr W was 
opening the SIPP with CP. This form was completed  by CP and sent to Walker Crips. It 
confirmed the account was to be run on a discretionary basis.  The form also gave Mr Ws 
investment aim as growth. Again it also gave his risk level as high.  
While Walker  Crips didnt  complete a risk questionnaire for Mr W when the account was 
opened, Mr M did write an internal record of his understanding  of the investment 
requirements. This was in February 2012. The note confirmed the large holding in the 
company Mr W worked for was non-discretionary. It also stated that Mr Ws monthly pension 
contributions were to be used to build up a high  risk / capital growth portfolio. 
Walker Crips  did update  its records in early 2015. At this time it got another application  form 
completed. This confirmed the discretionary nature of the account.  It also stated, at section 
H, the investment  aim was capital growth and, it again gave Mr Ws risk level as high. This 
form was signed  by Mr W and dated  30 March 2015.  
Mr W has said he only completed sections A to D on this form before signing it. On the other 
hand Walker Crips said the same pen appears later in the document and was used by Mr W 
to sign the form to confirm  all the details were correct. 
I stated that Id no way of confirming what actually happened with the completion of this 
form. I certainly had no reason not to believe Mr W. But that didnt mean  section H wasnt 
accurate. The high risk level given here was consistent with that on the application form 
completed by CP, and also with the client agreement form signed by Mr W for the execution 
only investment manager on his previous SIPP. 
Also, as above,  Mr W said he completed  sections A to D. In section C  Category of Service  
 it confirmed the account was to be run on a discretionary basis. Part of this section stated 
You delegate to us full authority to conduct business on your account without recourse to 
you. It went on to say You must provide details of your attitude to investment risk and your 
investment objectives. 
The available evidence also included various email exchanges. Mr W said, more than once, 
that Mr M told him the portfolio would be run on a relatively conservative basis.  Mr W said 
this was included  in an email to him from Mr M in February  2011.  But while the email did 
indeed state this, I wasnt satisfied it told the whole story. 
In an email dated 12 November 2013, Mr W questioned the management fee he was being 
charged given  that the bulk of his fund was the non-discretionary element invested in the 
company he worked  for. The email also asked Mr M:
Ref: DRN51710844Perhaps also you can give me your views  on some  of the other  investments  that are 
currently under water   I assume we plan to go long on these   but copies  of any research 
notes you have on them, would be most interesting. 
Three days later Mr M told Mr W that the fund, excluding the shares in the company he 
worked for, was intended to be a mixture  of speculative and longer term larger capital 
holdings which had recovery  potential. It went on to say Mr M was happy to gear the portfolio 
more towards the FTSE 100 weightings as and when (my emphasis) one or two of the 
speculative holdings recovered strongly. 
There were also several emails from earlier in 2013  regarding one of the investments Mr W 
is now complaining  about  Fastjet. In May 2013 Mr M told Mr W hed used his discretionary  
mandate to invest in Fastjet. Early the following month Mr M emailed  a couple of articles  
about Fastjet to Mr W. He said the shares  had been hit by a poor announcement  but he 
thought they were a strong speculative hold  and that on this one we must be patient. Two 
days after this Mr M sent another email to Mr W about Fastjets  share price  going up. The 
email referred to Fastjet as obviously  high risk. 
Then, some two years later, Mr W emailed Mr M noting that another  company had bought a 
6% stake  in Fastjet. He stated On that basis I assume you are treating this firm as a long 
term punt!.  Mr M replied  the following day saying he was absolutely  in favour of retaining 
the holding in Fastjet; more positive than ever. 
It was clear to me that Mr W was a very experienced investor. He was making  his own 
investment decisions  prior to meeting Mr M. He then continued making his own investment 
choices for a number  of years, using Mr M to carry out his instructions through his original 
SIPP. Mr W told us he handed over the management of his portfolio to Mr M because  he no 
longer had the time to look after it himself.  I could also see that even though he was clearly a 
very busy person,  Mr W continued to take a keen  interest in this portfolio. 
I was satisfied from all of the above that Mr Ws portfolio was being managed on a high risk 
basis. I was also satisfied  that Mr W knew  this and it wasnt  unexpected. He certainly didnt 
seem surprised that his account was being run in this way. There  was nothing in the 
available evidence to show  Mr W questioned the account being run on a high risk basis until 
late 2015  or that he queried it earlier that year when Walker Crips updated its records. 
I then turned to the suitability of the investments made by Walker Crips.  When it was given 
the discretionary mandate, Mr Ws portfolio was largely made  up of the shares in the 
company he worked  for. In an email  from December 2010 he confirmed that Mr M had 
discretion with the rest of the portfolio. Mr W also said hed made  such a mess of it, its 
not worth  much,  but new cash  will be added regularly. In February 2011 Mr W asked Mr M 
what he planned to do with my tiny little portfolio. 
I could also see that when Walker  Crips updated  its records in March  2015, section D of the 
form  a section Mr W says he completed  stated  that he also held £50,000 in cash. From 
the above, Im satisfied  that when Mr W opened  the CP SIPP, the discretionary element 
wasnt a significant  part of his financial wealth. I did accept this may well have changed 
when Mr Ws personal circumstances, including  leaving  his job, changed  in 2014. 
Mr W told us he would  never have invested  in: a start-up African airline; an African oil and 
gas exploration  company;  an Australian mining  and exploration company; or, a South 
American gold exploration  company.  
Ref: DRN51710845But I wasnt satisfied this was the case. Independent  of the discretionary investments made 
by Walker Crips, Mr W held various  other  shares. For example, he held shares in a mining 
company with an African copper mine, and also a Canadian based  mining  and exploration 
company with operations in Africa and Eastern Europe. So I dont think  the sectors  Walker 
Crips invested in were inconsistent from Mr Ws other holdings.  
Mr W told us he was dismayed when Walker Crips sold his shares in National Grid to buy 
shares in Fastjet. But the available evidence seems to show  that the money raised by selling 
these shares enabled  Mr W to increase his holding in the company he worked  for. While  I 
could see Mr W was aware  of the sale of the National Grid shares  at the time,  there  was 
nothing to show he expressed any dismay about this. 
Mr W told us that history  has shown that some  of the share  trades were unsuitable. I did 
accept that history has shown that some of the investments have  resulted  in losses  for him. 
But that is the very nature of such investments. They can both rise and fall in value. Indeed,  I 
could see that the shares Mr W bought in the African copper mine were  purchased  by him at 
£0.22 but slumped to around  £0.03. A fall in value  doesnt in itself make an investment 
unsuitable. All in all, given  Mr Ws personal circumstances at the time, I didnt think  the 
companies Walker Crips invested  in were inherently  unsuitable. 
Lastly, I also thought  about the size of the investments  in Fastjet, and the African  oil and gas 
exploration company. Clearly the two investments were  in separate  market  sectors. I could 
see these two holdings  represented a sizeable proportion of the discretionary portfolio. But I 
was satisfied this was largely  due to Walker Crips using established industry methods to try 
and mitigate any losses. 
This included buying  more shares in these  two companies once their share price had fallen. 
This was to bring  down the average  cost price  which, in turn, lowered  the level the shares 
would need to rise to be able to make  a profit or reduce  any loss. This strategy largely 
worked with the oil and gas company with Mr W ending up with a much smaller loss than he 
could have done. So I wasnt satisfied Walker Crips did anything wrong in following this 
strategy. 
I did sympathise with the position Mr W found  himself in and with the losses  hed made.  But 
as Id said above, investments can, and do, go up and down. Overall, I was satisfied that 
Walker Crips  managed  the portfolio properly. I was also satisfied the investments it made 
were suitable for Mr Ws circumstances at that time. 
I then gave both parties  two weeks to raise any further points if they wished to do so. Mr W 
replied saying the only point he wanted  to make was that my provisional  decision seemed to 
be based on the assertion that he had knowledge and experience of high risk markets before 
Walker Crips  was appointed as investment manager  for his SIPP.  He said this wasnt  the 
case. Mr W went on to say he had no concept of the level of risk he was taking,  and nor was 
this made  clear to him  he just trusted a professional investor who he thought  would look 
after him. 
Walker Crips  confirmed it had received my provisional decision, but had nothing further to 
add. 
Ref: DRN51710846my findings
Ive considered afresh all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes Mr Ws response  to my 
provisional decision. 
Mr W has told us that he didnt  have  knowledge  or experience of high risk markets  before 
Walker Crips  became  the investment manager  for his CP SIPP. He also says the level of risk 
he was taking wasnt made clear to him. But I dont accept this. 
Firstly, Mr Ws attitude to risk was consistently recorded as being high. Also,  the email 
exchanges between  him and Mr M make it clear that he took a keen interest  in this portfolio. 
The emails  also show he was aware  the level of risk being taken. For example, as I said in 
my provisional decision, one email from Mr M to him referred  to his Fastjet  investment as 
obviously high risk. Another  email from him asked Mr M for his views on some of his 
investments that were  currently underwater.  So I just dont  accept that Mr W was unaware 
of the level of risk he was taking. 
Ive also thought about Mr Ws experience as an investor and his knowledge of shares.  Mr W 
told us he handed  over the management of his portfolio to Walker Crips because  he didnt 
have time to run it himself. As I made  clear in my provisional decision, Mr W had already 
been making investments prior to meeting Mr M. After this, he continued to make  his own 
investment choices, instructing Mr M to carry out the investments on an execution  only basis 
for a number of years. This was all before the CP SIPP was opened, and before Walker 
Crips became involved. 
As Ive said above,  Mr W held a very senior  position in the company he worked  for at the 
time. Again, Im not going into the details  here to protect Mr Ws privacy.  But I can see from 
the available  evidence that the nature of his employment meant Mr W needed much more  
than just a basic  understanding  of stocks and shares. Again, this was before Walker Crips 
involvement. 
Taking all this into account, I remain satisfied that Mr W was a very experienced investor 
and, as Ive just said, I dont accept he was unaware  of the level of risk he was taking. I also 
remain satisfied that Walker Crips managed Mr Ws investments properly, and the 
investments were suitable for his circumstances at the time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5171084