K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains on behalf of herself and her husband that Lloyds Bank  PLC processed a 
cheque even though there insufficient funds in the account.
background
Mrs M issued two cheques  one for £4,500 and the other  for £4,000  from hers and her 
husbands joint account. She says she felt under pressure to make these payments and she 
told us she knew she didnt have  enough funds in the account to cover the payments.
Mrs M thought these cheques would be rejected, however the cheque for £4,500 was 
processed and paid. The cheque for £4,000  was later returned  as unpaid.
Mrs M is unhappy  as this has left her account  over its arranged overdraft facility, with no 
access to money.
Mrs M complained to Lloyds but it said it didnt make an error in allowing the cheque to be 
paid because the terms and conditions make  clear it is a customers responsibility to ensure  
there are sufficient funds  in the account to cover payments.
However, Lloyds agreed that Mrs M had been provided with misleading information and 
didnt receive call backs when requested.  It agreed that the service  it provided was below 
what it would  expect  so it credited  her account  with a total of £272. It awarded  £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused; £72 for the cost of her calls and it refunded  £100  of fees 
as a gesture  of goodwill.
Mrs M is unhappy  with Lloyds response  so she brought her complaint to our service.
When our investigator looked  into their complaint  she didnt recommend the complaint  
should be upheld.  She noted that the terms and conditions of their account make clear  that 
customers are responsible for ensuring they have available funds in their account to cover 
any cheques written. She didnt think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to reimburse this money 
because shed used  the cheque to a pay a bill. If Lloyds were to repay  the money she would 
have benefitted  twice  which wouldnt be fair. She thought Lloyds offer of compensation 
was a fair resolution  of the complaint.
Mrs M disagrees  with the investigators view. As both cheques  were for priority  bills she cant  
understand why the cheque for the greater amount was processed even though  it took their 
account over the arranged overdraft limit while the cheque for the lower amount was 
returned on the basis there were insufficient  funds  in the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms concerns that Lloyds authorised a cheque  when there 
werent sufficient funds in the account. This resulted in them exceeding the agreed overdraft 
facility. But what I need to think about is whether Lloyds did anything  wrong  in authorising  
the payment of the cheque for £4,500. I dont think it did, so Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN58455402Mrs M said she wrote the cheques in haste  following  the threat of legal action. On her 
complaint form, she told us she didnt have enough  funds in her account to cover the 
payments so she thought her cheques would  be rejected. However, the terms and conditions  
applicable to the account make clear that; you are responsible for making sure you have  the 
available funds in your account  to cover any cheques you have written .
Im satisfied that Mrs M was aware she didnt have  sufficient funds in her account when she 
wrote the two cheques  so I dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to refund this money.  I 
agree with the investigator that Mr and Mrs M have benefitted from the transaction   in the 
sense that they were  paying a bill. I realise Mrs M says she was in dispute  with the payee 
and felt forced to pay it but Im afraid thats a matter between Mr and Mrs M and the payee.  
And this doesnt  have  anything to do with Lloyds. I cant fairly ask Lloyds to pay £4,500  back  
to Mr and Mrs M because  it would mean  they would benefit twice.
In the circumstances of this complaint  Lloyds  told us it processed the cheque because it was 
a priority bill. I cant say this was unfair because it authorised payment to the payee of the 
amount Mrs M had directed it to pay in accordance  with the instructions  shed  given on her 
cheque.
Mrs M cant  understand why Lloyds  authorised  payment of one cheque  but not the other  
given that they were  both priority payments.  Ive thought carefully about  this but the terms 
and conditions dont  require that Lloyds  must  refuse to process a payment where there are 
insufficient funds.  They say: if you try to make a payment that would take your account over 
your arranged overdraft  limit, we may not make the payment. So Im satisfied Lloyds has 
discretion whether or not to allow such a payment and I cant  say it acted unfairly  in 
processing one payment,  but not the other.
I can see from Lloyds notes that Mrs M says she was told initially  that the £4,500  could be 
recovered. Lloyds  accepted that the information  and service  it provided fell below the 
standard theyd  normally  expect  and credited their account with £272. I think  this is a fair and 
reasonable resolution of this complaint in the circumstances.
I realise Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision given the amount by which  their 
account became  overdrawn. I note their account is now in collections and I can see that 
Lloyds has written to Mr and Mrs M to explain that if theyre experiencing financial difficulties, 
they should contact it to try to agree an arrangement that meets their needs and financial 
circumstances. From the information  available to me, Im not aware that this has been done.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 December 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5845540