K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  inform him when his fixed  interest mortgage 
product ended and he would like HSBC to refund  the extra interest he had to pay.
background
Mr A has a mortgage with HSBC  and had a fixed rate mortgage product that expired on 31 
March 2018. Mr A says he had no concerns  about the expiry date as he expected to be 
alerted to it by HSBC.  Mr A only realised that he had gone  onto the Standard Variable Rate  
(SVR) when he noticed that the mortgage payment was £300  more than he had been  
paying. When Mr a contacted HSBC it told him that a reminder  about  the end of the period 
would be in the my documents  section of the online  banking  facility. Mr A says that this isnt 
visible on the HSBC  App which he uses.  Mr A says that he paid more interest than he should  
have and lost out on a more favourable interest  rate that he could have got in March  or April 
2018.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as she felt that 
HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. Mr A disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has a mortgage with HSBC.  During  the course of the mortgage he fixed the rate of 
interest for a period  and that period ended in March  2018 There  is a dispute  about whether 
Mr A should  have got HSBCs reminder  about the expiry of the term of the mortgage 
product. HSBC says that in advance of the expiry date, it sent Mr A a letter  telling him that 
there was some important  information  in the my documents section  of the HSBC online 
banking facility. That information was to remind Mr A of the expiry of the mortgage product.  
Mr A says that he didnt  get the letter and doesnt  regularly use the facility. I note that when 
customers are registered for online banking HSBC  says that it will put documents  in the my 
documents facility  and it seems to have put the reminder there. Mr A says that he didnt get 
the letter which HSBC  says it sent in January. Mr A also makes the point that his reasonable 
expectation is that reminders would be sent by email or via the inbox of his HSBC App.
 
Mr A is unhappy that he didnt get the reminder from HSBC and that caused him to miss 
taking out a new mortgage product. But when Mr A took out the mortgage  product he would 
have received documents setting out when the mortgage product ended and that the interest  
rate would revert  to the SVR thereafter.  So, Mr A should have been aware when the 
mortgage product  was to end and if he wanted  to avoid the SVR would have had the 
opportunity to arrange a new mortgage  product in advance of it ending. This was a matter for 
his own financial planning.  HSBC simply provided  a financial  product. 
There was no regulatory requirement for HSBC to issue  a reminder  that the fixed  interest 
rate product  was coming to an end and when it issued the original mortgage offer it didnt  
agree to send  Mr A a reminder. The reminder  it sent was a matter of courtesy  and delivered  
through the online banking facility which Mr A had signed  up to. I believe that HSBC  had 
Ref: DRN57952202reasonable expectations that it would come  to Mr As notice. It doesnt appear to have  come  
to Mr As attention but I cant fairly find HSBC at fault for not doing something  that it wasnt 
required to do. I appreciate  that Mr A is unhappy with the way that HSBC  communicates with 
him. I note that HSBC  offered  compensation of £100 for that which  seems  fair. But in respect  
of this complaint,  for the reasons set out above, I cant  fairly uphold it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5795220