K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1998. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Ms D says FICL  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms D has said she wasnt  told anything about the PPI. Shes told us it wasnt  made clear she 
was buying the policy. Shes also told us she was told she had no choice and had to take the 
policy or her application would  be turned down.  So she says the policy was forced on her.
Ive thought about all this carefully. But Ive also taken into account  that Ms D took out her 
card more than twenty years ago. So I wouldnt expect her to remember  the sale vividly  or in 
detail. With that in mind, what Ms D has said isnt enough on its own to make  me think FICL 
misled her about having to take the PPI or forced  it on her. And I havent seen anything  else 
to make me think this is what  FICL did.  
Also, Ms Ds card application had a place  to tick and a place for her to sign if she wanted the 
cover. On Ms Ds form theres a tick and she signed  next to the tick. And above where she 
signed, what the form says about the cover  includes that the cover is for sickness, accident 
and unemployment.
Taking everything into account,  I think its likely  FICL made  it clear  that Ms D didnt have to 
take the cover and she chose to take it  but I can understand why she might not remember  
this, given how long ago it was. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms D, so it didnt  have  to check the PPI was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms D got the information  she needed to decide whether  the PPI 
was right for her. 
Ms D says nothing was explained. And I think its possible the information FICL gave Ms D 
about the PPI wasnt as full or as clear as it shouldve been.  But, bearing in mind what Ive 
already said above,  I think it likely Ms D was made  aware the cover was for unemployment 
and sickness. And I think she chose to take out the cover. So it looks  to me like she wanted  
this type of cover. And from what shes told us, Ms D wasnt  entitled to any work redundancy 
or sick pay. And she didnt have any savings or anything else to help with her card payments 
if she lost her job or was too sick to work. Also, from what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at 
the time,  Ms D wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  on or limits to the cover  so it 
wouldve been useful  for her if something went wrong. Taking everything into account, I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Ms D off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN55790152Ive taken into account all Ms Ds points. Im grateful  to her for her prompt  responses  to our 
inquiries. I acknowledge  that she strongly  feels  the PPI must  have  been  mis-sold. But taking 
into account the passage of time, and bearing  in mind everything  else,  I havent identified  a 
reason to find that the PPI was mis-sold  in this case. So, with all Ive already said above in 
mind, these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5579015