K820x#14complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society  has refused to refund  him for the costs he 
incurred when he had to rebook flights.  
background
Mr I booked some flights through  an online agency. I will refer to the agency  as L. The 
airline that was going to provide the flights went into administration.  It was no longer able to 
provide the flights. Mr I had to make alternative arrangements. Mr I got back  the money he 
had paid for the original flights.  But the new flights cost more and he also had to make 
additional travel  arrangements.  As a result  Mr I suggests he was left out of pocket by around 
£550.
Mr I paid for the original  tickets using his Nationwide credit  card.  Under certain 
circumstances where  a consumer has used a credit card to make a purchase, he is able to 
make a claim against the credit card company under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (Section 75). Mr I thought that Nationwide  was liable to cover  his costs under  Section 
75 and made a claim.
Nationwide declined to meet his claim.  Its stance  is that in order for Mr I to make a 
successful claim  there needs to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. It says no 
such valid relationship  exists here because the supplier was the airline. But the payment 
went to L. 
Nationwide also pointed  out that Mr I had raised the claim in October 2017. Itd closed it in 
December 2017  after Mr I hadnt  provided any further information although it had asked for 
this. But it had re-opened the claim in April 2018 after Mr I had got in touch again. So it felt it 
had handled  the complaint properly. 
Mr I wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response. In his opinion there was a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier arrangement. He was also unhappy with the level of customer  service hed 
received from it. He explained hed not replied  to Nationwide in October 2017 as he didnt 
think it was necessary at the time. 
Mr I contacted our service and our investigator  looked into the matter. She could see Mr I 
had received a refund  for the cancelled flights.  But hed incurred other costs as hed had to 
pay more for alternative flights and transport. 
Our investigator looked at all of the facts  surrounding the case. But she agreed that the 
required debtor-creditor-supplier agreement didnt  exist. This was because Mr I had made  
the payment to the online agency. But the airline was the supplier. She concluded she had 
no fair and reasonable basis to ask Nationwide to take any further action.
Mr I didnt agree it was a cut and dry as this. In summary, his view was this was a grey 
area the payment  to L did not mean that there  was no valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement. He has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59183602I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Is complaint. 
I have to take relevant law into account. Relevant law includes Section  75. As a result Ive 
thought about Section 75 in coming  to a decision.  But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach 
the same  outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr I pursued  a claim for breach of 
contract.
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction  financed by a credit  agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a breach of contract,  then he has a like claim against the credit  provider.
One of the relevant circumstances is that there must  be the required debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship in place. But it does not seem that is the case here. Mr I suggests this is a grey 
area. But I dont agree  that there is any such ambiguity in this complaint.  
In particular Mr I mentions the role of payment processors. Whilst it is correct  that in some 
cases, the involvement of a fourth party in the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship does not 
prevent the operation of Section 75. This is usually  because the fourth party is merely 
providing technical services or payment processing  to the supplier.  That was not the role of L 
here. 
Mr I suggests  that he has sent us information to show that the involvement  of L does not 
mean there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  for the purposes  of Section 75. 
He tells us about a phone call and written correspondence, But I have no record  of any call 
he had with L saying this other than what he says was said. I dont find this persuasive. I say 
this because the written  information he has sent does not support  what  he says. Further, I 
have also looked  at Ls terms and conditions  which Mr I had to accept to use its services. 
They show  Mr I entered into a contractual relationship with L in its own right.  Further  the 
terms and conditions dont suggest  that L was merely operating in a manner, such  as a 
payment processor, that does not affect the relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. 
That is the relationship between the customer, Mr I and the end supplier that is the airline. 
Even if L told Mr I something different, which I find unlikely in the circumstances,  given what 
its terms and conditions  say, I dont agree that it seems likely that there  is a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship here.  Further, L has it seems  fulfilled the terms of the contract it 
had with Mr I.
For all these reasons, I dont think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  acted 
unreasonably.
For completeness Ive also thought about  whether Nationwide ought to have tried to carry 
out a chargeback. The chargeback process  allows credit card users to ask for a transaction  
to be reversed if theres a problem with goods  or services paid for. Theres  no automatic 
right to a chargeback,  nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of getting a refund. The 
process is limited to specific criteria.   But I cant see that there  was any valid chargeback  
reason here that would have meant that any such  claim would be successful, in the 
circumstances. It follows  I cant fairly and reasonably say that Nationwide acted incorrectly 
with regards to the chargeback.
I realise Mr I will be disappointed with my decision.  I recognise that he has been  it seems 
sent all-round  the houses by the numerous parties he has contacted about this matter.  But it 
Ref: DRN59183603brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve his dispute with Nationwide informally, can do 
for him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5918360