K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an insurance  policy taken  out in 2009 alongside a loan. Mr A says 
St Andrews  Insurance PLC mis-sold him the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of insurance on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr A says he took out the policy in a meeting and that he didnt know he could opt out of the 
policy. However, considering the type of policy Mr A was sold, we know  these were usually 
taken out over the phone.  So while I accept that the loan may have been taken out during a 
meeting, I think its likely he took out the insurance  policy over the phone  with St Andrews.
Unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed  there is no call recording for me to 
listen to, so I cant say exactly what was discussed. Ive thought about what Mr A has said 
but as the sale took place a long time ago  about 10 years  ago  its difficult to rely on what 
he says alone  to conclude that something untoward happened.  
So without any persuasive evidence to the contrary,  I think its more likely than not 
St Andrews  wouldve made it clear  that Mr A didnt have to take out the policy and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this.
St Andrews  recommended the policy to Mr A so it had to check  that it was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover and he seems 
to have had a need for it.  
Mr A says he had six months  full, followed by six months half pay from his employer at the 
time. But for £19.75 per month the policy wouldve paid out £200 for up to 12 months, and in 
addition to Mr As sick pay. So these funds  couldve been used for other expenses.  Mr A 
also told us he didnt  have  any other  savings or insurance in place  at the time, so I think he 
wouldve found the policy useful, especially when his sick pay reduced  to half. 
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr A about the policy  wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the policy  would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Ref: DRN55986842Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5598684