K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about the significant increase in premiums they now have to 
pay for their whole of life policy  following errors  made by Scottish  Widows Limited (SW) in 
reviewing the policy.
Background 
Mr and Mrs P took out a reviewable whole of life policy in June 1998. The policy  was index  
linked so its sum assured and premiums increased annually. They have explained the policy 
was taken out to mitigate their inheritance tax liability.
In 2019 SW discovered  that it hadnt  completed the contractual reviews for the policy for 
many years. This meant that when the policy had been reviewed in the past it had been  
reviewed on the wrong basis  and as a result the policy passed its reviews when 
predominantly it shouldnt  have.
In order to rectify this SW explained  that it had carried  out a historical  review  of the policy  
allowing for actual  investment  returns over the error period to identify when the policy  would 
have failed a review and what the outcome of that would have been. It then calculated what 
the new premiums or lower sum assured would be if Mr and Mrs P wanted to keep the policy 
on. Given the errors SW ensured the higher premiums required to maintain the sum assured 
at the current level were lower than had the policy been reviewed correctly over the years.
The options  available  to Mr and Mrs P at the time were:
Increase the premium  to from £1,680.95 per month to £2,463.95 to maintain the 
current level of cover of £1,225,650.
Continue paying the current premiums of £1,680.95 and reduce the sum assured to
£792,650.
Surrender the policy and receive the surrender value applicable at the date surrender 
instructions are received.
In addition to this SW added over £17,000 worth  of units to the plan in recognition of the 
error made and to uplift the fund underlying the policy to reduce the level of premium  
increase required.  And it confirmed that no further reviews of the policy would take place  
once the oldest policy holder turned 75.
In recognition of the distress and inconvenience  the mistakes had caused Mr and Mrs P SW 
also offered them £150.
Mr and Mrs P were  disappointed that SW hadnt reviewed the policy correctly and were 
unhappy with the options provided to them. They explained they needed the sum assured to 
remain at the current  level because of their inheritance  tax liability  but the new premium  was 
far higher than they could  afford. They said that had the reviews had been  carried out 
correctly and at the right time, when they saw a significant  increase in premiums was 
required they would have looked elsewhere for a different, cheaper policy  providing  the 
same level of cover. As this would  have happened  in 2018, they feel they would have been 
able to get a new policy with the cover they wanted from a different provider because  they 
would have been healthier  and younger  at that point in time.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators. Having analysed the calculations 
provided by Lloyds, she was satisfied that while this approach was different to what  we 
Ref: DRN51772102usually do in this Service, it did put Mr and Mrs P in a better position than our usual 
approach and, in fact, if the reviews had been  carried out properly. So she did feel SWs  
alternative approach  to compensation was fair as it allowed Mr and Mrs P to continue with 
the level of cover theyd  had since  the outset but for a cheaper premium  than would  
otherwise have been the case.  However  due to Mr and Mrs Ps specific  circumstances  and 
objectives SW needed to do something different to what it had offered in order  to resolve this 
matter in a way that met Mr and Mrs Ps needs.
The investigator was persuaded that Mr and Mrs P would have looked elsewhere for a 
different policy  in 2018 given they took this action in 2019  when they were informed of the 
mistake and the increase in premiums needed.  So she felt that the fairest way to resolve  this 
was for SW to pay the difference between the policy they could have got in 2018 and a new 
policy now, for which they would get new quotes. As the policy  would have been cancelled,  
she felt they should also receive the surrender value as at 2018. She detailed how the 
payments from SW should be made  bearing  in mind Mr and Mrs P would no longer be 
customers of SW if this method of redress was accepted.
SW agreed with the suggested redress, for the most part. It requested it see the new policy 
quotes as well as the estimates  for 2018. And while  it had some reservations  about how it 
would pay the difference  in the premiums to Mr and Mrs P it agreed to work  this out going 
forward.
However, when Mr and Mrs P attempted to get new quotes for the various policies, they 
werent successful due to the recent  pandemic  in the UK and the restrictions  that followed. 
Some insurers even closed their books to new, less than healthy customers.
By the time Mr and Mrs P managed to get the relevant quotes SW had rescinded its 
agreement to the redress suggested by the investigator.
After much continued communication between the investigator SW and Mr and Mrs P, SW 
then offered to allow Mr and Mrs P to keep the policy in place with the premiums at
£1,931.85 per month (which Mr and Mrs P had confirmed  they could afford) and a sum 
assured of £1,416,393. SW also stated  it would not review the policy  any further even 
though one more policy review was due before the oldest policyholder  reached  the age of 
75.
Due to the length of time this had taken and the stress they had felt trying  to get new quotes  
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept the offer from SW. They explained  that they felt they should be 
allowed to maintain the policy with SW at the premium and sum assured  it had offered but 
that they should also receive the surrender  value  of the policy  as at 2018 (the point they 
maintain they would have cancelled the policy).  They felt this was justified because if it 
wasnt for SWs errors and their current health  issues they would have received the policy  
surrender value when they cancelled it so SW shouldnt  deprive them  of this now.
Despite the attempts by the investigator neither party agreed an acceptable resolution.
I issued my provisional findings at the beginning of June  2021.  An extract is below and forms 
part of this decision:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am currently  of the view 
that the offer made by SW is the right way of redressing  this complaint.
Ref: DRN51772103I think its important to first clarify that this decision only concerns the mistakes  made  by SW 
in reviewing this policy  and the best way to fix this. While Mr and Mrs P have questioned 
the suitability of the sale, as theyve said they werent  told the premiums could ever rise, this 
has been dealt  with separately, so I wont address that element here.
I understand that it would  have been  worrying  for Mr and Mrs P to suddenly  be asked to 
increase their monthly premiums to more  than double  of what  they had been paying  for 
years.
Its also disappointing that SW incorrectly reviewed  this policy, but I am pleased to see that it 
identified this and has tried to resolve  the situation  in a way that is beneficial  for the policy  
holder.
The approach of this service  when an error  has occurred is to put the consumer into the 
position they would have  been in, as far as possible,  had that error not occurred. In 
complaints where  reviews  of a whole of life policy have been applied  incorrectly  or have not 
taken place at all we would normally ask the relevant business  to conduct historical reviews 
and at the point the policy  failed the review  we would ascertain what  the policyholder  would 
have done had they had that information  at the time.
The method  that SW proposed is different to our normal approach but having  worked  
through the calculations provided by SW myself along with its rationale for its approach, as 
well as testing the figures,  I am satisfied that SWs method is more beneficial for
Mr and Mrs P than this services usual approach. And in fact it seems to me SW has put the 
policy in a much better position than had the correct reviews been carried  out at the correct  
time.
We know that had the reviews been  carried out correctly then the premiums and sum 
assured at the points the reviews would have failed would have been:
Review year Premium before review Premium after review Sum Assured
2008 £424.75 £837.80 £553,186
2013 £1,186.70 £1,346.18 £794,172
2018 £2,044.88 £3,549.20 £1,140,139
So given what SW suggested it do to get the policy back on track,  as detailed above,  I think  
its clear to see that the policy  is in a much better position and provides Mr and Mrs P with 
more protection  at a good cost than had the policy been reviewed correctly.
However, the reason why the initial proposed  redress by SW wasnt  deemed suitable by the 
investigator was because of the specific circumstances  of Mr and Mrs P. They have 
explained they need to maintain the high level of life cover for inheritance  tax mitigation and 
this was why they took the policy in the first place.  But they cant  afford the new proposed 
premiums. Also they have  told us that had the correct review taken place at the correct time 
they would  have surrendered the policy in 2018 and found cover  elsewhere because they 
couldnt afford the increase in premiums.
I have no reason to doubt any of this. I know they have had to seek help from family to 
maintain the premiums during the investigation of this complaint. And I know  they tried to 
find a more affordable  policy when they received the letter  from SW in 2019 informing them  
of the errors.
Ref: DRN51772104So I am satisfied that had the review been  carried out correctly they would have looked 
elsewhere for a different  policy in 2018. And this is what  the investigator  based her 
suggested redress on which isnt wrong.  However, the offer SW made at the very last minute  
offer must be taken into consideration when making my decision and its only right I consider 
whether this offer is the most suitable option  for Mr and Mrs P.
The initial method of redress where SW make up the difference in cost of a new against the 
cost of what they could  have  got in 2018 comes with complications for both parties. But most  
importantly, while I dont  doubt Mr and Mrs P would have looked for cover with a different 
provider had they known about  the increase in 2018, I cant  know with any certainty that they 
would have been granted a different policy in 2018. They have said they were healthy and 
obviously younger, but they didnt actually get an offer of cover in 2018 so we have no facts 
from the time. I know they have provided  us with estimations of the premiums  from different 
providers as they would have been in 2018,  but this is before any new provider had the 
opportunity to examine their circumstances and decide if medical underwiring was required. 
I know they have  said they were  healthy in 2018  but medical underwriting hinges on 
sometimes the most unlikely factors which I cant say with any certainty would not have  
applied to them back then.
Further to this, Im not convinced the new policies Mr and Mrs P have quotes for now are 
identical to the one they have with SW. After  the age of 70 most whole of life policies are 
reviewed every year. This is confirmed in the terms and conditions of one of the potentially 
new quoted policies and it also states that at each  review  there  may be changes required in 
the premium or the sum assured. So whilst the quoted premiums  appear to be affordable  at 
this stage, and certainly  seem good  value for money given the level of cover they are 
providing, I havent seen anything  that assures me the premiums would be guaranteed for 
the entirety of the policy. With many whole of life policies, while  they start off affordable,  at 
the first review its often  found the premiums arent  enough to maintain the desired sum 
assured and therefore needs to be increased.  If this happens to a new policy  Mr and Mrs P 
take out now it could be more than they can afford (likely given  the level of protection it is 
providing) and they could be left in a position  where theyd have to cancel the policy  and 
wouldnt even be able to receive an adequate surrender value due to how young the policy  
is.
Its also important to note that the existing policy with SW has a surrender value of more 
than £100,000 behind it. This means  that it could be cancelled, and Mr and Mrs P could take 
that money.  But it also means that this value  will act to counteract  any change in costs  SW 
incurs without it needing to increase the premiums. This wouldnt be the same for a new 
policy as there wouldnt  be any value behind it that could  be used as a buffer.
So overall for the reasons  above  and in light of the offer from SW I think  SWs offer is the 
most suitable and practical way of Mr and Mrs P keeping  the life cover they say they need. 
And while I know they feel that if they accepted SWs offer they should receive the surrender 
value as at 2018 (because thats what they would have done back  then)  this isnt fair to SW 
nor is it feasible. If the policy remains in place now there is no reason why they should also 
get the surrender value. And the policy wouldnt be able to exist if the surrender value is 
taken from it.
I do however think that the £150 offered by SW should be increased. Mr and Mrs P asked 
SW before the investigation  of this complaint whether it would be willing  to freeze  the 
premium at the current level because. This is something they would have accepted at that 
Ref: DRN51772105point in time. The offer SW has now proposed largely mirrors  this. But given it was asked 
this more than twelve  months ago I think had SW agreed then it would have saved
Mr and Mrs P much worry and stress  over their very valuable life protection  and they 
wouldnt have had to obtain quotes for new policies. I therefore  think SW should pay 
Mr and Mrs P £300 in recognition of this.
SW accepted my provisional findings and provided no further comments.
Mr and Mrs P, however, didnt agree with my provisional decision and made  the following 
comments:
Mrs Ps medical history 2018 hasnt been  considered.
The provisional decision didnt take account  of the fact they had been offered a policy  
in January 2020 for £3,000 which was later increased to £5,000.
They told SW immediately  in 2019  that they couldnt afford the new premiums, but 
SW refused to help them.
SW has now offered what it had initially refused to two years ago.
They were not told the policy was linked  to an investment and therefore remain of the 
view the policy was mis-sold.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not persuaded to 
alter the outcome of my provisional decision.
Firstly, its important I clarify that while Mr and Mrs P still feel the policy  was mis-sold  as 
I have already explained in my provisional decision this issue  was dealt  with under separate 
complaint which  wasnt  upheld. And from what  I have  seen this outcome was accepted by 
Mr and Mrs P.
I can assure Mr and Mrs P that I have taken full account of their circumstances now and 
when the mistakes regarding the reviews of the policy were uncovered. But this specific  
situation is not straight forward to resolve  due to the changes in Mr and Mrs Ps health  over 
the last couple of years. And this a factor  that I cant ignore in making my final decision.
As Ive already  expressed, it is disappointing  that SW failed to review  the policy correctly and 
undeniably Mr and Mrs P would have been  spared the worry and distress they have suffered 
over the last few years  had this not happened. However, given the mistakes did happen my 
role is to find the most suitable  and most fair way of resolving the consequences of those 
mistakes, not to punish SW. But Mr and Mrs P must  bear in mind that the perfect  fix isnt 
always possible to achieve.
Mr and Mrs P have  struggled to get a definitive answer from another provider as to what a 
new whole  of life policy would look like for them, and by that I mean no definite premium  
level and no information  to assure  me that that whatever new policy  they were looking for 
was the same as the one being  provided by SW. Their changing health  and the impact of the 
current pandemic has also played a part in this uncertainty.
So it is with this lens that I must make my decision.
Ref: DRN51772106As explained in my provisional findings  I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs P would have at least 
looked for another policy had the SW policy been  reviewed  correctly and the increase in 
premiums was communicated to them when it should have been in 2018. However, what 
I cant be sure of is whether they would have been  given a new policy that met all of their 
objectives at that time.
So when looking at the offer from SW in my view that essentially has given  Mr and Mrs P 
everything they were  looking  for in a policy so its hard for me to conclude this isnt the best 
way of resolving this matter  it enables Mr and Mrs P to keep the life cover they say they 
need for a premium  they can afford with no risk of the sum assured or premiums  changing  in 
the future  -  which I must add is usually  unheard  of with reviewable whole of life policies. The 
way they are structured  to work  means  they will nearly always need  an adjustment  up for 
premiums or and adjustment down for the sum assured the longer they remain in place. 
So for reasons  explained above and those  also in my provisional  decision, I am of the view 
that the offer SW has made most recently is suitable and it is for Mr and Mrs P to decide 
whether they accept  this or not. However,  I do think that SW should  pay Mr and Mrs P £300  
for the worries and anxiety this whole situation  has caused them.
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Scottish Widows Limited is the most suitable way 
of resolving this complaint.
As offered Scottish Widows Limited has confirmed  it will:
Freeze the premiums at £1,931.85 per month for a sum assured of £1,416,393; 
Not review the policy further  for the rest of the time it remains  in place.
It will be up to Mr and Mrs P to decide whether this is something they want  to accept.
I also direct  Scottish Widows Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs P the sum of £300 in recognition of 
the trouble its mistakes  have caused  them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2021.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5177210