K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Everyday Lending  Limited irresponsibly gave him a loan that was 
unaffordable.
background
Mr W borrowed money from Everyday Lending  in January 2017. And says he complained to 
it in June 2017 that he was in financial difficulties and had a gambling problem. He says he 
repaid some  of that loan with help from his family but his gambling  and financial  problems  
continued.
Mr W says he was then contacted by Everyday Lending by phone  and letter  in the early  part 
of 2018 asking him if he wished to take out a new loan. He says he borrowed about £2,300 
and used some of it to repay his previous loan. And gambled the rest and couldnt afford the 
repayments. 
Mr W says that this further lending in 2018  was both irresponsible and unaffordable. And 
Everyday Lending  shouldve made  a note on its systems about his gambling  and noticed  it 
on his bank statements  before deciding to lend a second time.
Everyday Lending  says Mr W used  the loan to consolidate his existing 2017  loan and says 
all affordability checks were  carried  out. It says Mr W had a small number of gambling 
transactions on his bank  statement but was in employment and the loan was affordable.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld  it in part. She thought Mr W 
had complained in June  2017 that the first loan was unaffordable and told Everyday Lending 
about his gambling problem.  The investigator  thought the second loan was affordable, but 
the lending was irresponsible because of what  Everyday Lending already knew about Mr W, 
and that it shouldve asked more questions  about the gambling problem and made  a note on 
Mr Ws file about that problem. 
She recommended that to resolve the complaint, Everyday Lending refund the loan interest, 
remove negative information from Mr Ws credit file and pay him £50 compensation for 
calling him whilst this complaint was ongoing about another  loan.
Everyday Lending  doesnt accept that view and has asked that it be reviewed. It says the 
investigator shouldnt  base her decision on one little phone  call mentioning gambling and 
says even if it had asked Mr W about  his gambling, then its likely he wouldve lied about  it. It 
says it was told about ten months before the second lending about  the gambling  issue in any 
event. It says its disproportionate to say the lending was irresponsible based  on one 
comment ten months earlier.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that the lending was irresponsible and in the circumstances also unaffordable  due to Mr 
Ws gambling  problem.
Ive listened to the call between the parties  from June  2017 and Im satisfied  Mr W told 
Everyday Lending  that he was under financial pressure, was borrowing money  and had a 
Ref: DRN57838172gambling problem.  Im also satisfied that it was clear that Mr W was concerned about the 
amount of interest  he was being  charged.  I can see that Mr W then made  a complaint to 
Everyday Lending  about that, which it investigated and issued a final response letter  on 23 
August 2017.  So Im satisfied at that stage Everyday Lending knew about Mr Ws position,  
even if it decided it hadnt made  a mistake about the first loan.
I think in those circumstances  Everyday Lending  shouldnt have contacted  Mr W about  a 
new loan as it knew about his difficulties and that he couldnt afford a far smaller  loan. I also 
think that it shouldve  considered that although the first loan may have appeared affordable, 
it actually wasnt due to the gambling  problem. I wouldve expected  Everyday Lending to 
have considered that problem in far more detail than it did in 2018, and not just carried out 
simple affordability checks.
Lenders should not just carry out affordability  checks, but also lend responsibly.  Im satisfied 
that Everyday Lending  knew about the gambling problem, but I cant  see any evidence  that it 
considered that when  it approved the second loan.  I also think  that looking  at Mr Ws bank 
statements would have  revealed that the problem hadnt gone away. And I can see that in 
2018 there were  numerous transactions involving gambling companies.  I also think  that 
those transactions  didnt  include  the cash withdrawals which I think  it likely  Mr W was also 
using for gambling.
I appreciate that lenders are in a difficult position  about the issue of gambling and I accept 
that borrowers are reluctant to reveal details of any gambling problem. But in this case Im 
satisfied Everyday Lending already knew about  the gambling and the financial difficulties 
from the previous  complaint, and I think it shouldve  made a clear note on Mr Ws file in the 
event of any future applications. I appreciate  it says that Mr W may not have told it about  his 
gambling if it had asked for further details. Nevertheless, I dont think it did ask that question, 
when it should  have, and it also couldve found out the answer by taking a closer look at his 
bank statements and looking at his finances in more  detail.
Mr W says Everyday Lending  has again been  in contact  with him about a further loan,  
despite two complaints about its lending to him. I think  that suggests on balance that its 
again not recorded details  of Mr Ws circumstances  on its records.
There is no question that Mr W has had the benefit of the second loan and used some of it to 
repay his first loan.  So I agree with the investigator  that it would be unfair that the loan 
balance be written-off.  But overall, Im satisfied the lending was irresponsible  and 
unaffordable and that Everyday Lending  shouldve known that - having  been told that 
months before deciding  to lend again.  
On the complaint ground about  Everyday Lending  calling Mr W whilst  the complaint was 
ongoing, I dont  think that justifies any compensation. But I have made clear why I think  its 
relevant to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, I order  Everyday 
Lending Limited to refund  to Mr W any interest and charges on the loan taken out in March 
2018, and to remove any negative information that may have been recorded  on Mr Ws 
credit file. I dont intend to add any additional  compensation  to this.
Ref: DRN57838173Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5783817