K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complained  as director  of a limited company Ill refer to as H - about how     
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd handled a claim he made on his commercial vehicle 
insurance.
For ease, any reference to Accredited  will also include  the actions and comments of its 
agents.  
background
Mr Ks vehicle  was stolen and then found. He claimed on his policy to have the damage  
repaired. Accredited asked its engineer to inspect Mr Ks vehicle. The engineer  said the 
estimated repair  costs were around  £16,000  and valued the vehicle at £5,000. So Accredited 
said the vehicle  would  be written-off  (known as a total loss).  It said Mr K could keep the 
vehicle but it would  deduct £850 as salvage  plus a £550 excess. 
Accredited asked  Mr K to send in the keys.  Mr K said he sent them but Accredited said it 
didnt receive them.  
Mr K was unhappy with Accrediteds valuation of his vehicle as he thought  it was worth much 
more. He said before the theft hed spent a lot of money on repairs,  including to the engine. 
Mr K arranged for his vehicle to be moved  to his own garage for storage and inspection. He 
asked Accredited  to cover the cost of him moving the vehicle, assessing it, storage costs  
and for repairs. He also said Accredited  hadnt  paid him enough  to reimburse  him for the 
police having  recovered his vehicle.  He complained to Accredited about  this and the way it 
had treated him throughout the claim. 
Accredited said the discrepancy in the police recovery  cost was the VAT element. However, 
it accepted this was a personal cost that he wasnt going to put through  the business and 
agreed to reimburse  him. It agreed  that the keys had been  lost. And said it would consider 
storage costs between  30 September and 12 October if Mr K provided an invoice. However, 
it said at that point it had told Mr K it could store his vehicle for free, and it was his choice not 
to do that. So it wouldnt pay any more storage costs. It said it wouldnt  pay Mr K to assess  
or repair his own vehicle when it hadnt  authorised  the repairs.  
Accredited arranged  for a second engineer to assess Mr Ks vehicle. That engineer thought  
it was worth £4,000.  Accredited said it would consider any independent  engineers report   
Mr K wanted  to provide but he hadnt done  so. Accredited made Mr K an interim payment for 
his vehicle. 
Mr K remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. He said his company  had carried  
out the inspection on the vehicle which showed Accredited hadnt valued  it fairly. He felt hed 
been accused of not sending the keys and had been treated badly by Accredited throughout 
the whole  process.  He asked Accredited to return the V5 document.  He also provided  
adverts to support  his valuation. While we were looking into things Mr K told us hed received 
a fine from the DVLA  due to his vehicle being kept on the road. He thought this was 
Accrediteds fault as hed sent it the V5 document.  
Our investigator thought Accredited  had reached  a valuation fairly and deducted a fair 
salvage value.  He didnt think Accredited needed to pay Mr K any more  storage costs 
because it had offered  to store the vehicle for free. He could see that Accredited had 
Ref: DRN56706192reimbursed the VAT element of the police recovery fee. And he hadnt  seen  anything  to 
show it had been  unreasonable in the way it handled his claim or dealt with him. So he didnt 
ask Accredited  to do anything differently. 
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He told us about the distress  this 
was causing him and said hed provide an independent valuation  for his vehicle.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks made a number  of detailed points and I hope  he doesnt take it as a discourtesy that 
Im going  to focus on what I see as the central  issues of this complaint. 
Mr Ks motor trade policy  covers  him for theft. The policy says the most it will pay in the 
event of damage or theft is the trade  value  of the vehicle. It defines this as the trade cost of 
replacing the vehicle with one of the same make, model, age, condition and specification at 
the time of the loss. 
Our service doesnt value  vehicles but we look to see if an insurer  has made  a fair and 
reasonable offer. As Accredited was unable to produce a value using the relevant trade 
guides it asked  its engineer to consider the value. 
Accrediteds engineer said Mr Ks vehicle was quite rare but in need  of a rebuild.  He said 
that prime  examples of the vehicle could demand more than £20,000 but to bring the vehicle 
up to that standard would cost up to £15,000 in restoration costs. He recognised that the 
engine was clean  which demonstrated recent remedial  work. He thought the vehicle  was 
worth £5,000.
The second  engineer said the body work  was in such a condition  that it would  need  
substantial work to increase the value.  He said specialists in this vehicle had confirmed the 
new engine  and chassis Mr K had fitted would  be considered maintenance and wouldnt add 
value. He also spoke  to specialist dealers who said the vehicle would be worth between  
£3,000 and £4,000.  And he provided  examples of similar vehicles which  he said were  in 
much better condition than Mr Ks that ranged between £5,995 and £7,000.
As the vehicle couldnt be valued by the trade guides Im satisfied Accredited took 
reasonable steps by asking engineers to give a valuation. Im persuaded by these reports  as 
theyve used their own knowledge  as engineers and the second engineer also spoke to two 
specialist dealers. Hes also explained  why the vehicles in adverts he produced were in 
much better condition than his yet only valued £1,000  higher  than Accredited  had initially 
valued his vehicle. 
While I have considered  the adverts Mr Ks provided, Ive placed  less weight on these  as 
they dont show  what the vehicles actually  sold for. I also appreciate that Mr K had spent 
money on a new engine for his vehicle. But this doesnt necessarily mean it would increase 
its value because it would be considered  general  maintenance  to keep the vehicle  in a 
working order. Accredited has also said it produced the market  value of the vehicle rather 
than the trade value  the policy specified.  The market  value is often  higher  than the trade 
value. So Mr K might have received a higher valuation than he would have done if 
Accredited had produced  the trade value he was entitled to under the policy. 
Ref: DRN56706193Taking all this into account Im satisfied  Accredited made a fair and reasonable valuation  of 
Mr Ks vehicle  so Im not going to ask it to increase it. I can also see Accredited made Mr K 
an interim payment which is what Id expect it to do, as it means hes got some  of the money 
while were  looking into things. 
In July 2019 Mr K said he wanted to provide his own engineers report  but hasnt yet done 
so. While hes explained how distressing hes found this situation I dont think I need to wait 
any longer for him to provide a report.  Thats because its unlikely to persuade  me the 
vehicles worth more, given that two engineers have already valued it at around the same 
amount.
Its a general principle of insurance that in the event of a vehicle becoming  a total loss the 
salvage becomes  the property of the insurer. I think its fair that a policyholder be allowed to 
keep the salvage if they wish. But if they choose  to do so, then its also fair that the insurer 
deducts what it would have otherwise sold the vehicle for if the policyholder  hadnt  kept it. I 
can see Accredited would have sold Mr Ks vehicle for £850  so its fair it deducted this 
amount from the valuation  as Mr K wanted  to keep it. If Mr K decides he doesnt  want to 
keep the vehicle he can ask Accredited for the full total loss amount of £5,000, minus his 
excess of £550.  The policy  defines  an excess as the part the policyholder must pay towards 
any claim. So, Mr K would always have needed to pay that.
As Accredited decided  Mr Ks vehicle was a total loss it isnt responsible  for paying for the 
repairs. Thats because its already paid him the vehicles total loss value in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
I dont think I need  to make a finding on what happened to the keys as Accredited has 
accepted they were  lost and paid for a new ignition. 
I can see Mr Ks presented an invoice to Accredited  for him to have moved the vehicle  and 
inspect it. I appreciate Mr K is a mechanic and it was his company that carried  out the work. 
But Im not going  to ask Accredited  to reimburse  him for this. Thats because it was his 
choice to move his vehicle and inspect  it. Im also not going to ask it to reimburse him for 
having to move his vehicle for the second  engineer to inspect it because  it was Mr Ks choice 
not to keep it in Accrediteds free storage. 
Accredited said it would pay for storage until 12 October. I can see Accredited  told Mr K it 
wouldnt be liable for any storage  costs from that date and it gave him the option of free 
storage. As it could  have stored the vehicle for free and gave Mr K notice of that I dont think  
it would  be fair for me to tell it to pay any further storage. 
Accredited said its now returned the V5 to Mr K. Id expect it to have done  this as hes 
keeping the vehicle. As Mr K wanted  to keep the vehicle it was his responsibility to make 
sure it was taxed or off the road. So, I dont hold Accredited responsible for any fines  Mr Ks 
received from the DVLA. 
I appreciate how upsetting this has been for Mr K but I dont  think Accredited is to blame  for 
that. And I havent  seen anything in its communication with him to show its treated him 
unfairly or unprofessionally. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  Accredited has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. So Im not going  to ask it to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN56706194my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN5670619