K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund a disputed cash withdrawal 
made from his account. 
background
Mr M says that a fraudulent cash withdrawal for £160 was made  from his Capital One 
account on 14 October 2017 at 16:09. The last time Mr M says he used his card was the 
same day in Home Bargains at 15:59.  
Mr M says he tried to use the card at an ATM on 16 October 2017 to make a balance  
enquiry. He tried the original PIN that came  with the card, but it kept saying the PIN was 
incorrect. After  three attempts the card was blocked and the ATM prompted him to call his 
card provider. Mr M called  Capital One and reported  the £160 cash withdrawal as fraudulent. 
Mr M said it wasnt possible to travel  between Home Bargains and Waitrose in 9 minutes so 
he couldnt have  carried out the withdrawal. 
Capital One declined Mr Ms fraud claim.  They said the transaction  was carried  out using 
Mr Ms card and PIN and as the card was still in his possession, it couldnt confirm that fraud 
had taken place.  Mr M was unhappy  with this so referred his complaint  to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude  the cash withdrawal was made  fraudulently and was persuaded it was 
most likely made and authorised by Mr M. This was due to the fact the PIN was changed  just 
prior to the disputed  withdrawal and Mr M seemingly  knew this new PIN, as he entered  it in 
an attempt to withdraw money a couple of days later. 
Mr M responded, re-emphasising that the distance between Home  Bargain  and Waitrose 
was too far for him to get from one to the other  in the time necessary to carry out the 
disputed withdrawal. He says the police  have confirmed to him this wouldnt be possible 
even with their blue lights on. Mr M also explained  that when Capital One sent him a new 
card after the transaction had happened, they sent him the same PIN as the original. He 
doesnt understand why this would be the case if the PIN was changed. Mr M asked for the 
answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons. 
In short,  Capital One is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2009  (the PSRs  
2009). Mr M says he didnt make  the cash withdrawal of £160 and is seeking  a refund of that 
amount. So, my primary concern is to come  to a view about whether or I not I think Mr M 
authorised the payment. 
Ref: DRN59542112Having reviewed Mr Ms transaction  history, Im satisfied the genuine  card and PIN were 
used in order for the disputed transaction to take place.  And despite  what Mr M has said,  Im 
persuaded it wouldve been  possible for him to have carried  out the transaction. In coming  to 
that view, Ive considered the following:
I acknowledge  what Mr M has said about  the distance between Home Bargains,  where  
he says he last used  his card, and Waitrose, where the disputed  transaction  took place. 
Mr M doesnt  believe its possible  to get from one to the other in the nine minutes  
between his purchase and the PIN change. However,  the audit report  shows  the 
genuine card was present at both locations,  nine minutes apart  and a route  planner  
does suggest  its possible  to do the journey in that time. 
Mr M still had the card in his possession ruling  out the possibility that an unknown  third 
party carried out the transaction. I say this because it wouldve meant the unknown third 
party obtaining the card immediately after Mr M using  it in Home Bargains, carrying out the 
cash withdrawal  at Waitrose and then locating  him to give the card back. This isnt likely. 
Its also not likely  it was someone  close to Mr M who carried out the transaction.  He 
says he was with his wife and daughter at Home Bargains. So, its reasonable to say 
that, other than Mr M, they would be the only people with access  to the card that day 
and a close  enough proximity to Mr M to be able to return  it later. However,  Mr M says 
he travelled home with both, so it couldnt  have been  them.  
Furthermore,  no balance enquiries  were  done prior to the £160 withdrawal. Mr M had a 
£200 credit limit. Hed just spent  £21.76  in Home Bargains, so it seems too coincidental 
that only £160 was taken  out. Had someone  else got hold of the card and PIN, its not 
unreasonable to expect to see the full balance utilised or further attempts to use the card. 
The PIN was changed just prior to the disputed cash withdrawal. While this couldve been  
someone else,  there isnt an obvious reason why anyone  who had obtained someone 
elses card and PIN, would then change the PIN. Whereas Mr M had just opened the 
account. Therefore, it seems far more  likely  this was him changing his PIN to something 
more memorable. Mr M says he received the same PIN as the original, when he got sent 
a new one after reporting the disputed  withdrawal. He suggests this shows the PIN wasnt  
changed. However, Mr M also acknowledges that he tried the original PIN in the ATM 
several times  on 16 October and it said it was incorrect.  Therefore, the audit report and 
Mr Ms own testimony persuades me that the PIN was changed. 
Mr M says the next genuine use of the card after the Home Bargains purchase  was 
when he did a balance  enquiry on 16 October 2017 and entered  the PIN incorrectly. 
However, the audit  report shows  a failed £20 cash  withdrawal just before the three 
incorrect PIN attempts for the balance enquiries.  The £20 cash withdrawal failed due to 
there being insufficient funds in the account. Im persuaded  this attempted withdrawal 
was Mr M due to it being  seconds before the balance enquiries and at the same ATM. 
Taking this into account, I think  Mr M knew the PIN otherwise he wouldnt have been 
able to attempt  the £20 withdrawal. This satisfies me it was Mr M who changed the PIN 
just prior to the disputed cash withdrawal. 
Ref: DRN59542113In response to the investigators opinion Mr M maintains that he could not have carried  out 
the cash withdrawal  given the time taken to travel between Home Bargains  and Waitrose. 
But I am satisfied with the audit information Ive been  provided by Capital One. This, along 
with the evidence suggesting  Mr M was responsible for the PIN change that took place right 
before the disputed  withdrawal, satisfies me that Mr M authorised the disputed  withdrawal. 
I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Capital One to refuse a refund of the disputed  
transaction on the basis it was authorised by Mr M. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5954211