K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited declined  her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
On 19 July 2016 Ms C took out pet insurance for her dog. Red Sands was the insurer.  The 
policy provided lifetime cover up to the annual condition and policy  limits while the policy was 
in force,  subject to the policy terms.
In August  2018,  while on holiday, Ms C took her dog to a vet practice where  she was 
holiday. The vet recommended a referral to specialist vets due to funny turns lump in 
abdomen? adrenal growth. Claims were  made  for Suspected EIC Exercise Intolerance and 
collapse and Investigation  of lethargy.
Red Sands  assessed  Ms Cs dogs vet history and declined  the claim.  It said the dog first 
went to Ms Cs local vets following a collapse and the clinical symptoms  of exercise 
intolerance on 11 July 2016,  before the policy started.  So the claim was for a pre-existing 
condition, which the policy didnt cover. 
Red Sands  also said if Ms C had told it about her dogs symptoms  when she took out the 
policy it would have  added a specific exclusion to the policy  on all claims with respect to 
anything to do with Exercise induced collapse that occurred on 9th July 2016 and Resulting 
Conditions with effect from 19th July 2016. It added the specific exclusion to Ms Cs policy.
Ms C provided further information from the vet who referred her dog to the specialist vets but 
Red Sands  didnt change its mind.  She complained to us and wants Red Sands to pay the 
claim.
Our investigator said Red Sands acted fairly in declining the claim.
Ms C disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She raised several points:
her dog was referred by an experienced vet who thought her dog possibly had an 
adrenal mass. She said the growth was a new condition, not a pre-existing condition 
and she wanted  a clear answer from Red Sands why it didnt think the possible 
growth was a new condition 
although the investigations  didnt  find an adrenal  mass  she thought one of the 
purposes of insurance was to cover investigations to rule out medical issues
shed contacted Red Sands before her dog went to the specialist vets to tell it her 
dog was being referred.
Before I made my decision I asked Red Sands for the call recording Ms C made to tell it 
about her dogs referral,  which it provided.  I also asked for Red Sands specific  comment on 
why it hadnt considered  the request for investigation for an adrenal growth as a new 
condition, which it also provided.  Ill detail the relevant  information  in my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN58786092Im sorry  to disappoint Ms C but I dont uphold this complaint. I have to decide  whether 
Red Sands  fairly and reasonably declined  the claim, and I think  it did. Ill explain why.
The policy key facts  highlight that theres  no cover for a pre-existing condition  or illness  that 
first showed  clinical signs  before  the policy started. At the time Ms C took out the policy in 
2016 most, if not all, pet insurance policies contained that exclusion.
Ms Cs dogs vet notes on 11 July 2016  say had a long walk Saturday  and seemed  v tired.  
yesterday, collapsed on walk, rolled on back salivated, eye rolled back  in head. The vet 
notes of 12 July 2016 show the vet advis(ed) work up for collapse. 
Both vet consultations were before the policy was taken out a few days  later.  So I think when 
Ms C took out the policy she should  have  reasonably known her dog had problems that may 
require future vet treatment, even  if she didnt have a diagnosis.  Ms Cs local vet notes show 
that Ms C and the local vet practice had discussions about the dog having exercise induced 
intolerance or fatigue in 2016,  2017 and 2018 before she went  on holiday.
The records  of the vet she saw on holiday show that Ms C reported effectively the same 
symptoms that her dog had previously shown. That vet told Red Sands:
(the dog) had presented with several  symptoms which were  rare and uncomfortable 
for herself  and the family to see whilst she was affected, On examination on that 
particular day, she showed strong discomfort whilst  I palpated her cranio-dorsal 
abdomen , I suspected there might  have been  a mass in the region cranial to the 
kidney which  could  have  been an adrenal growth. the symptoms described by the 
owners and what I felt on the day was what brought on the referral to the referral  
centre to either rule a diagnosis, either positive or negative.
Ms C says her dog was referred for a new condition  a possible adrenal/abdominal growth.  
But the specialist  vets report is clear that the dog was referred for exercise intolerance  and 
collapse. The report lists the numerous  tests  the dog had to investigate and says the 
abdominal palpation was normal  with no pain or palpable abdominal mass. So no mass 
was found.
Red Sands  says its received no claim for a possible adrenal/abdominal mass and from the 
evidence Ive seen  thats correct. The claim submitted  was for suspected EIC Exercise  
Intolerance and collapse with the follow up claim being for Investigation of lethargy and the 
comment that no abdominal mass was found was part of the investigations into those  
conditions.
Theres no evidence from the specialist vets that the investigations claimed  for were only or 
even mostly  for a suspected  abdominal  growth  or suspected  adrenal  mass that was 
unrelated to the dogs pre-existing symptoms.
Given the overall vet evidence, particularly from the specialist vets who carried out the 
investigations, Red Sands  reasonably understood that the treatment claimed for was for 
investigation of symptoms and possible causes of a pre-existing condition  (exercise  
intolerance and collapse/lethargy) which the policy doesnt  cover. 
Ive listened to the call when Ms C informed Red Sands her dog had been referred to the 
specialist vets. 
Ref: DRN58786093Red Sands representative told Ms C that based  on the information shed given it during the 
call it would look to cover but that all claims were  subject to review  by an assessor  and he 
couldnt give any guarantee  of cover. So Im satisfied that Red Sands was clear to Ms C it 
wasnt confirming the referral treatment definitely  would  be covered.
Also in the call Red Sands made  clear  to Ms C it could only give information  about cover for 
the claim based on information she provided.  I dont think Ms C gave Red Sands 
representative full information about  her dogs long history of symptoms.  When  asked when 
shed first noticed her dogs lethargy  Ms C dated  it to 2017, after the policy started. The vet 
records show she was aware  of her dogs  lethargy  and an episode of collapse  before the 
policy started in 2016.
Im satisfied that Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
I note Red Sands added  a specific  exclusion to the policy,  which Ive detailed  above. Ms C 
hasnt said she wants that exclusion removed so I make no specific findings about whether  
Red Sands  fairly added the specific exclusion.  But its fair for me to tell Ms C that even 
without a specific exclusion Red Sands could still rely on the general exclusion for pre-
existing conditions if the vet evidence shows its fair to do so, as with this claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5878609