K821x#15complaint
Miss I complains that Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading  as Sunny, lent to her in an
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
1 October 2019, an extract  of which  is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I thought  that the complaint should  be upheld  in 
part. I said that Sunny shouldnt  have  given Miss I loans six to 16 and I set out what  I 
proposed to direct Sunny to do to put things  right.
responses to my provisional  decision  
Miss I didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  Sunny responded at some length.  It said, in 
summary:
Miss I could  afford the repayments.  
I havent concluded that its affordability calculation was inadequate. 
It didnt rely solely on what Miss I said about her income and expenditure as it used 
credit reference agency data too.
Theres an implication that Ive seen something to suggest  that if it had verified 
Miss Is income and expenditure from loan six, it would have concluded that she 
couldnt afford to repay loans six to 16 but theres no indication that the information 
Miss I provided wasnt accurate.
It doesnt think that Miss I used  its loans to repay its previous loans as the dates dont 
match and the amounts  she borrowed for loans six to nine wasnt enough  to repay 
loans two to five. 
In the absence of indications  of financial hardship, it doesnt think that it should  
change its approach to assessing  applications  after a certain number of loans.
Theres no good reason to give more  importance to the number of loans a customer  
has with them than with other lenders.
It was entitled to restrict creditworthiness to the term of the loan.  
Too much  weight  has been given to the number of loans. 
Its not the case that the number of loans necessarily impaired Miss Is ability to 
access mainstream credit.
Ref: DRN59199952my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what  Sunny says but I remain of the view that the pattern of Miss Is lending with 
Sunny from loan six onwards indicated that further lending was unsustainable. Ill explain 
why. 
The fact that Miss I repaid the loans  doesnt  show that she did so sustainably. Ive noted the 
checks Sunny did before  lending to Miss I but I dont think that was sufficient by loan five and 
by loan six, the pattern of lending, in itself, suggested that Miss I had become persistently 
reliant on short-term loans. 
Sunny says that it doesnt think that Miss I used its loans to repay  its previous loans as the 
dates dont match and the amounts she borrowed for loans six to nine werent enough  to 
repay loans  two to five. I dont think the dates  and amounts have to match  exactly to indicate  
that Miss I was likely  trying to recover from repaying  previous loans  with Sunny when she 
took out further loans. Miss I took out loan two (then  loan three) shortly after repaying loan 
one. She took out loan five shortly  after repaying  all her outstanding loans. Loans two to four 
were repaid  in late April 2015  and loan five in mid May 2015. A few days after repaying  loan 
five, Miss I borrowed  again, which was her sixth loan. Whilst the amounts fluctuated,  Miss Is 
indebtedness wasnt getting substantially better. 
For the reasons  Ive set out in my provisional  decision, I think its reasonable to look at the 
pattern of lending, which  includes  thinking  about the number  and frequency of the loans 
Miss I had with Sunny  and to draw  conclusions about the likely sustainability  of further 
borrowing at a certain point. I think that point was reached here by loan six. By then, Miss I 
had taken six loans  in five months. 
I think its likely that a mainstream lender would look at the number of loans here and take a 
negative view. So, I think its fair that all information about loans six to 16 is removed from 
Miss Is credit  file. 
Considering everything, I think that the redress I set out in my provisional decision is fair.
Ref: DRN59199953my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Is complaint in part. I now require Elevate Credit 
International Limited, trading as Sunny, to;
refund  all interest and charges Miss I paid on six to 16;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans  taken from loan six onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans six to 16 should be removed from 
Miss Is credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must 
give Miss I a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59199954 extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss I complains that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Sunny loaned to Miss I on 16 occasions between December 2014 and March 2016. On the first 
occasion, Sunny gave  Miss I a line of credit up to £750  and she drew down  £200 from that facility. 
Loans two to 15 were  instalment loans, repayable in six, broadly equal, monthly  repayments.  Miss I 
repaid all the loans. A summary of Miss Is borrowing from Sunny is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
1 15 December 2014 200 24 December 2014
2 30 December 2014 300 24 April 2015
3 5 January 2015 450 28 April 2015
4 17 March  2015 150 24 April 2015
5 6 May 2015 200 10 May 2015
6 13 May 2015 150 26 May 2015
7 17 May 2015 100 26 May 2015
8 19 May 2015 100 26 June 2015
9 31 May 2105 250 26 June 2015
10 12 June 2015 200 26 November 2015
11 8 July 2015 550 24 December 2015
12 6 August 2015 150 26 August 2015
13 17 September 2015 200 26 January 2016
14 2 December 2015 400 31 March  2016
15 27 December 2015 200 26 January 2016
16 22 March  2016 200 24 March  2016
Miss I says that Sunny  should have realised that she couldnt  afford to repay the loans and that in 
order to do so shed have to borrow  further.  She wants  a refund of interest and charges, with 
interest.
One of our adjudicators assessed Miss Is case. He said that Sunny had upheld Miss Is complaint  in 
relation to loans one and two in the file it submitted to us, so he didnt look at those  loans  further. The 
adjudicator said that he hadnt seen enough to say that Sunny acted  unfairly in giving  Miss I loans 
three to five but that it shouldnt have given her loans six to 16. He set out what Sunny should  do to 
put matters right.
Sunny didnt  agree with the adjudicator.  It said, in summary:
After further review, it didnt feel that loans  one and two should be upheld.
It asked Miss I about her income and expenses, including any other  short-term loans.
Miss I used  a very small percentage of her monthly income to repay the loans.
It permits customers to take up to four loans at any time and it considered  other loans when it 
assessed each loan application.
All of the loan applications would have to meet its eligibility  and lending criteria.
It uses  both information  provided by the customer and credit reference agencies.
    It doesnt use bank statements to verify customers information.
Ref: DRN59199955As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice, this 
means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss I could repay  the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Miss I could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether 
the loan payments  were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation.  Of course  the loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could  sustainably make 
their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and in particular  
the customer  should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other reasonable  
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows  that a 
lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Is complaint.
Sunny says that it doesnt think that it did anything wrong in relation to any of the loans it gave to 
Miss I, so Ive looked at all 16 loans. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Sunny was 
wrong to give Miss I loans  one to five. Ill explain why.
In relation to loans one to four, given  the amount of the loans, the level of the repayments,  what  was 
apparent about Miss Is circumstances  at the time and her history with Sunny at that time, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Miss I for the amount of information  needed  to 
Ref: DRN59199956show the lending  was unsustainable. There wasnt anything  in the information  Miss I provided or the 
information Sunny shouldve been aware  of, which  meant it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny 
to start verifying what Miss I was saying  about her finances.
I think that Sunny should have done more before loan five. I think  that at this stage, 
proportionate checks would have included  taking steps to verify what Miss I said. But I havent  
seen anything  to suggest that if it had done so, it wouldve concluded that Miss I couldnt afford 
to repay  loan five.
So, I dont think  that Sunny  was wrong to give Miss I loans one to five. But Ive also looked at the 
overall pattern of Sunnys lending  history with Miss I, with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Is case, I think that this point was reached by loan six. I 
say this because by loan six, Miss Is overall pattern of borrowing suggested that she had become 
persistently reliant on short-term loans.  Miss I had borrowed on six occasions in five months and 
whilst the amounts fluctuated, they didnt significantly decrease over this period and for the rest of the 
borrowing relationship with Sunny.
Miss I took out loan six shortly after she repaid  loans two to five. And Miss I went  on to borrow on 
three more occasions in May 2015, making five loans in May 2015 in total. Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Miss I was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying  
her previous loans was leaving in her finances and that Miss Is indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
In my view, the pattern  of lending  itself shows that the loans from loan six were
unsustainable. So, I dont think that Sunny should have given Miss I loans six to 16.
Miss I wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  she owed Sunny.  Loan 16 was taken out two 
years and three months after Miss I first borrowed from Sunny. Miss I had paid large  amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended  period.
I think that Miss I lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan six onwards 
because these  loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Is indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. The sheer  number 
of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Miss Is ability to access  mainstream  credit 
and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I intend to uphold Miss Is complaint about loans  six to 16 and to direct Sunny to put things 
right.
putting things right  what I intend  to direct Sunny to do
refund all interest and charges Miss I paid on six to 16;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans  taken from loan six onwards  means any information  recorded  about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans six to 16 should be removed  from Miss Is 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must  give
Miss I a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for on
Ref: DRN59199957my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Miss Is 
complaint in part and to direct Elevate Credit  International Limited,  trading as Sunny as indicated 
above.
Ref: DRN5919995