K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy sold to Mrs R in connection  with a 
personal loan she took out in 1990. The policy provided cover for Mrs R if she couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mrs Rs needs?
-Did Halifax give Mrs R the information she needed  to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mrs R is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done  something different  such  as 
not taking out the policy   if there hadnt been any problems  with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs R says she doesnt remember  PPI being discussed when she took out her loan. Ive 
noted everything Mrs R has said. Im also mindful that its nearly thirty years since  the policy 
was sold, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation  from the time the policy was sold.  Thats not 
surprising given the time thats passed,  and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. 
On balance, I think its unlikely that Halifax wouldve added the PPI to Mrs Rs loan account if 
she hadnt agreed to it. I think its possible that she may have forgotten  about the sale. So 
without anything else to support what  Mrs R has told me, I havent been able to safely 
conclude that Halifax didnt make her aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI.
Ref: DRN55149762Halifax accepts that it probably advised  Mrs R to take out the policy  and it doesnt  look like it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-there is nothing to suggest that Mrs R wasnt eligible for the policy given her circumstances 
and the PPI terms and conditions.  
-Mrs R says he was entitled to sick pay from her employer  if she couldnt work  due to sickness 
or accident. But the policy  would have paid out in addition  to Mrs Rs employer sick pay, and 
wouldve meant  she could use those benefits  to pay for other expenses if she couldnt  work. 
So overall I think Mrs R would have  had some use for the policy  despite  her existing 
arrangements.
-Mrs R wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting  the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
could have  benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mrs R needed better  
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the policys  cost was made clear  to Mrs R before  she agreed to buy it. But 
the policy  was competitively  priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mrs R 
would have  made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But as Ive already  said, Mrs R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations  and the 
policy was reasonably priced. So I think it unlikely  Mrs R would have made  a different decision if 
better information had been provided   overall,  I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive noted everything  Mrs R has said about Halifaxs initial response to her complaint, where it told 
her it had no records of her loan or PPI. Given the length of time since the sale,  I think it may have 
been difficult for Halifax to identify  the records it holds for Mrs R. But Im not persuaded that the 
incorrect information it gave Mrs R initially means  that the policy was mis-sold.
Mrs R has also mentioned  a successful PPI claim her sister has made. But we review  the 
circumstances of each  complaint  individually to assess  whether or not there  has been a mis-sale.  
And having done that in this case,  for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that the policy  
was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5514976