K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of Ms S that Barclays Bank UK PLC was irresponsible in 
approving and pre approving nine loans  since  2011. When he complained to the bank it 
gave him a very poor service.
background
Mr R is concerned that Barclays gave Ms S nine loans since 2011 none of which  reached 
maturity. This was despite her missing five repayments. And she was using her overdraft 
facility. So he says they were unaffordable. On 17 November 2017 Ms S applied  for, and 
was given, a loan of £14,100.  Hes unhappy  Barclays didnt carry out a financial assessment 
because it had already pre-approved a loan for over £16,000.
Mr R thinks Barclays  was irresponsible in granting these loan applications, particularly as Ms 
S had to reduce her employment hours  from 2013 due to the birth of her children. He also 
says the bank charged her an unfair  interest  rate in Nov 2017. It advertised a rate from 5.5% 
for existing  customers but the interest rate on her latest loan was 11.8%.
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that in November 2017 Ms S had 
asked for a joint loan of £25,000 but it didnt offer this type of loan. She had already been 
pre-approved for a loan in her name  of up to £16,900 due to the income and expenditure on 
her current  account. So it granted her application of £14,000 in her sole name.
But it accepted there  had been a delay in its response and offered £100 for that delay. And it 
offered £10 towards the cost of a Subject Access Report (SAR).
Our investigator wasnt able to say whether the financial checks  Barclays had carried  out 
were sufficient or proportionate  as it wasnt able to provide the loan applications, income and 
expenditure checks, or credit  checks. But she looked at Ms Ss bank statements and she 
didnt think there was anything to suggest  the loans were unaffordable.
Mr R wasnt happy with this. He wants this Service to demand  all the pre-sale 
documentation. He said Ms S wasnt given any advice or guidance. And shes  adamant she 
didnt receive any post sale documentation.  He said its too easy  to go online and take 
advantage of a pre-approved loan without  having to put in any financial information. And he 
didnt think Barclays should take account of the regular payment Ms Ss partner makes into 
her account.  Hes concerned its allowed her debt to grow from £2,500 to £14,000 without 
any consideration of her financial situation.  During most of the time shes had to rely on her 
overdraft to make her monthly  repayments. And she missed five monthly  repayments  in 
November and December  2012, January and August 2014 and October 2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms S first took out a loan on 5 July 2011 for £2,100  at an interest  rate of 18.395%. The 
length of the loan was 24 months and the monthly repayments were  £105.25. Over the next 
six years  she took out a number of consolidation loans until the final one on 17 November 
2017. On that day she took out a loan of £14.100 in part to repay  the previous loan. The 
interest rate was 11.83%. It was for 60 months and the monthly repayments are £312.47.
Ref: DRN55497182Mr R is acting on behalf of Ms S and says the subsequent lending by Barclays after the first 
loan was unaffordable. He wants the bank to provide all the pre documentation because  he 
doesnt think it properly  assessed Ms Ss ability to repay these  loans. He says its failure to 
do so is in breach  of the Financial Services Act 2003. But thats not something this Service  
can comment on. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA). If 
Mr R has any concerns  about Barclays failure to comply with the relevant legislation he will 
need to address his concerns to the FCA.  But for all the reasons I give below Im satisfied I 
can make  a decision based on the information that has been  provided by both Barclays and 
Ms S. 
Mr R says Barclays process to assess eligibility for loans and particularly its practice  in pre-
approving loans based on her income  and expenditure is flawed. But again thats not 
something we can look at. Our role is limited. We try to sort out individual  complaints 
between consumers and a financial institution where  the consumer thinks  he or she has lost 
out. We cant comment on processes which apply to all its customers. Thats also the role of 
the FCA. But we can look at Ms Ss experience with those processes and see if anything  has 
gone wrong that has caused her problems.
If a loan is unaffordable it means  that the customer  couldnt afford  to make the repayments 
at the time he or she took the loan out. The affordability checks  a lender should  carry out 
should be proportionate to the size of the loan and the cost of repayment. From the 
information it had at the time of offering these loans Barclays thought they were affordable  
and so granted Ms Ss applications. We cant say that a lender  shouldve done any particular 
check. But Barclays hasnt been able to give us any copies  of the loan applications so its 
difficult for us to say whether the checks were proportionate and sufficient.
But we can look at Ms Ss account  history to see if there  was anything that shouldve 
concerned Barclays. I can see that she mainly  uses the loans to repay the previous ones 
and to pay the debt on her Barclaycard.  And that seems reasonable as the interest charged 
on loans is generally  cheaper than the interest on a credit card. 
Mr R says Barclays shouldve been concerned  by the five missed  repayments. Two of those 
were in 2012 and two were in 2014. The final one was in October 2017. But there isnt a 
consistent pattern  of missed payments. I know Mr R wont  agree with me but I dont think five 
missed payments since Barclays began lending to Ms S in 2011 wouldve given it any undue 
cause for concern.
And I can see that Ms S has been using her overdraft facility  on a regular  basis but she isnt 
permanently in an overdraft situation  so I dont  think this is something Barclays shouldve  
been concerned  about.
 
Barclays had a responsibility to make  sure Ms S could afford these  loans but a consumer 
also has a responsibility  to only apply for loans he or she can afford. Ive listened  to the 
phone call Ms S made to Barclays before she applied for and was granted her latest loan in 
November 2017.  She asked  if she and her partner could apply for a joint loan of £25,000. 
The operator  explained that Barclays couldnt offer a joint loan but said she was eligible for a 
top up loan  of £16,900. Ms S explained  she wanted a consolidation loan and wanted to pay 
off her Barclaycard. The operator offered to check the amount of the monthly repayment on 
a five year loan of £16,900 but she said her system  was down. She explained to Ms S that 
she could check the quote on the app on her phone but that she did not have  to go ahead  
once she had all the information. 
Ref: DRN55497183As Ive already  said this Service cant comment on Barclays practice of pre-approving loans. 
But it was based  on Ms Ss income  and expenditure and she decided to go ahead with her 
application after shed  spoken to the bank. 
For all those reasons I dont think there was anything to suggest  the loans were  unaffordable 
at the time Barclays granted  Ms Ss applications.
Ive considered whether it was irresponsible for the bank to have given Ms S the loans.  
Irresponsible lending  is not just about whether  she could afford  to repay  the credit  or not  
its whether theres  another reason  she shouldnt  have had the credit.  This will depend on 
her personal  circumstances. And it could be irresponsible to lend to someone who is in a 
debt spiral because  they are borrowing  money  to repay other  loans, which they cant afford. 
But thats not the case here. Ms S is using the loans to repay her credit card and, as Ive 
already said, that seems  reasonable  due to the difference in interest rates. Shes  not in a 
permanent overdraft situation. And apart  from five missed payments over six years she has 
kept up with the loan repayments. So I cant see that she was in a debt spiral.   
Ms S doesnt appear to have told Barclays  shes in financial  difficulties because of the latest 
loan. If she is in such difficulties and explains that to the bank it has a responsibility to 
respond positively  and sympathetically. That doesnt mean Ms S doesnt have to repay the 
money shes borrowed  simply  that Barclays should take account of her current  situation  in 
trying to reach a mutually satisfactory way forward.
Mr R says the interest rate on the last loan was unfair. But thats a commercial  decision 
Barclays was entitled to make and we cant comment on the fairness of interest rates.
Barclays has awarded Ms S £100  for its poor service. I know Mr R wont agree with me but I 
think thats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5549718