K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains, on behalf of Mr H, about  the quality of a car Mr H got through  a Hire 
Purchase Agreement with Go Car Credit Limited  (Go Car). Mr H would like to reject the car.
background
Ms M says Mr H took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement in March 2018 for an eight year old 
car with 90,907  miles on the clock.
She says within  two weeks the clutch failed on the car. And whilst this issue was covered 
under warranty she says it was the start of a number of problems. She says she has 
provided receipts for all the work Mr H had to have done to the car. But Go Car closed  the 
complaint as it said the problems were due to the age and mileage of the car.
Go Car said that Mr H arranged repairs to the car himself so it considered these as 
unauthorised repairs.  It said if Mr H had contacted  them when issues first arose it would 
have investigated.  And ensured any repairs for which  it was liable were made. It said it 
wasnt now in a position to establish  if issues were present or developing at the point of sale.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  He found that an independent report  concluded  
that issues were likely to be due to failed repair works  previously carried  out on the car.
Go Car accepted  this view but Mr H didnt.
Mr H then provided job cards to show the amount  and type of work that had been carried  out 
on the car.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He felt the job cards 
evidenced repairs needed as a result  of wear and tear for example  replacing tyres and the 
battery. He also noted that the engineer who carried out the independent  inspection  had 
been given the full repair history so was able to take that into account when forming  his view.
Mr H remained  of the view that the car was of unsatisfactory quality even though  there was 
no evidence of point  of sale issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H feels strongly  about this so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as Ive reached 
the same  conclusion as our investigator.
Its unfortunate that Mr H has had problems with his car. I am conscious he did get a used 
car that already had a significant mileage. So he could  expect  to have some repairs and 
wear and tear issues to deal with sooner, than for example, if the car had been a new one.
Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. If issues  arise 
within the first six months we usually expect the business to confirm  if these issues were 
present or developing at the point  of sale or not. If they were we would normally  expect the 
business to take responsibility for resolving  these.
Ref: DRN58079402Go Car has told us that Mr H contacted it in January 2019  some ten months  after he had the 
car.  I havent seen  any evidence to show that prior to this Mr H contacted the dealership  
with any issues. It seems  he arranged for his own repairs to be carried  out.
I appreciate Mr H might not have  realised that it would  have been better  to have gone back 
to the dealership and / or contacted Go Car as soon  as he had problems. Thats  unfortunate 
because it means that Go Car had no opportunity to inspect  the car within  the first six 
months. 
Mr H has given us details  of work  done to the car and of costs totalling over £2,000  along  
with the relevant job cards. There is no indication  from the job cards that issues  were 
present or developing at the point  of sale. And some  of the issues, for example, replacement 
tyres and battery  would be deemed  to be wear  and tear issues.  In a used car with significant 
mileage Go Car couldnt reasonably be expect  to be liable  for such  issues.
Mr H has also given us a details of a service completed in February 2019 along with a note 
from the mechanic  who completed this service stating that he felt the problems were  present 
when Mr H got the car. The service record isnt very detailed  and some  of the issues  
identified, for example  the need  to replace the brake and disc pads, would be wear and tear 
items that Mr H could have expected to replace at some point. But I have noted  the 
mechanics view about the condition of the car when Mr H got it.
Go Car requested  an independent inspection was carried out on the car. I think that was 
reasonable since we would have  to have some evidence  to show issues  were present or 
developing at the point of sale in order to let Mr H reject the car.
I have read that report very carefully.  The inspection  was very limited  as the car was 
inoperable. And the inspector was unable to even enter the car. He was able however to 
jack the car up and carry out a visual inspection of the steering and suspension.
The inspector was unable to conclude  if issues were present or developing at the point of 
sale. He found  a lot of the issues were due to the car being idle which  had caused rust and 
corrosion to build up
The report  did however  raise significant  issues about the previous repairs that had been 
carried out. The inspector had access to all of the repair  history. He queried  if some of the 
repairs specified on the job cards had actually  been done. For example whilst he found 
evidence of some repair  work to the steering and suspension components  there was no 
evidence of the driveshaft or suspension  arms being replaced  as reported.
The inspector felt further investigation was needed  to determine, what if any repairs had 
been carried out. He concluded  that repairs had not been successfully carried  out.
I am more persuaded by the evidence of this detailed independent report than I am by the 
mechanics note with the service details in February 2019 where he states  the car wasnt  fit 
for purpose  at the point of sale.  There is no supporting evidence for that statement whereas 
the independent report is detailed giving rationale  for the inspectors findings.
The independent report doesnt conclude if faults were present  or developing at the point of 
sale or not. But  it  does  however raise sufficient  concerns about the veracity  and quality of 
repairs carried out that leads me to conclude the repairs are a significant  factor  in the 
problems Mr H has had. 
Ref: DRN58079403In the absence of any actual evidence  to say that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of 
sale I cant  reasonably conclude it was and therefore allow  Mr H to reject the car as he 
would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5807940