K820x#14complaint
Mrs B and Mrs B are unhappy that Zurich  Insurance PLC wont  pay their home insurance 
claim for the damage to their neighbours car caused by their garden wall collapsing.
background
In March 2018 Mrs B and Mrs B made a claim to Zurich in respect  of their garden wall which 
had collapsed. Zurich  proceeded  to repair the wall. The neighbours car was damaged  by the 
collapsed wall. Mrs and Mrs  B  say that Zurich told them  it would pay for the damage to the 
neighbours car but that the neighbour had to first make a claim on her car insurance and it 
would negotiate  with the relevant insurer. Mrs B says she was told on at least ten occasions 
in phone calls that the cost of the damage would be paid. She chased the matter up in 
September 2018 as the neighbours insurer hadnt  received any payment.
Eventually she was told, on 18 January 2019 that in fact the neighbours claim wouldnt be 
paid as Zurich  didnt consider that it had any liability  under  the policy for it. It recognised  that 
Mrs B had been given  the wrong  information  and that its position should  have been made 
clear much earlier.  It offered  to pay £750  for the delays and inconvenience caused.  It 
couldnt however  make  any payment  for the neighbours claim.
Mrs B and Mrs B were  very unhappy with this  they said if theyd known this information  at 
the beginning they would  have paid for the neighbours car privately which  would have been 
cheaper than the cost of the insurance  claim. Theyve confirmed however that they wont 
now be making any payment for the neighbours claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Zurich had acted reasonably  and had 
made a reasonable offer of compensation. She pointed out that Mrs B hadnt  been able to 
show that the cost of repairing the car would have been cheaper on a private basis.
Mrs B and Mrs B werent happy with that, pointing out that they shouldnt  be penalised as 
they werent able to get the evidence of a private repairer, having not had the opportunity to 
do so. Our investigator advised that as they hadnt  made any payment they hadnt suffered 
any financial  loss.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The liability  towards  other people not living at the property is covered under the legal liability 
sections of the policy. These essentially  say that Zurich will cover the policyholders  legal 
liability for an accident where someone  dies, is injured or had their property damaged. But 
the cover  only applies  where there is a legal liability. Its long been recognised by insurers 
that this essentially  means where  the policyholder is negligent, so had a legal liability. In Mrs 
B and Mrs Bs case  the damage  to the wall was after a heavy snowfall and it wasnt  shown 
that they were  negligent. On that basis Zurich can reasonably say that it isnt liable to pay 
the neighbours claim.
I fully appreciate that Zurich should  have  told Mrs B and Mrs B much  sooner about this. I 
accept that they werent told about it until Mrs B made a formal  complaint about it in January 
Ref: DRN580263222019. So it is reasonable that it pay compensation. And it has offered £750,  which  I think 
reflects the seriousness of Mrs B and Mrs Bs complaint.
I note Mrs B and Mrs Bs position  that they would have paid the neighbours claim privately 
if theyd been  told at the beginning. They felt that this would have been cheaper than the 
cost of paying the car insurance claim.  I dont  think thats likely.  I understand in any case that 
they havent paid out so havent  made any financial loss. But I understand that this made the 
neighbour unhappy with Mrs B and Mrs B. The compensation offered by Zurich in part 
reflects that.
I can only require Zurich  to pay under  the terms of the policy if I can say its liable to do so. 
And I cant make it honour a moral  liability. On the basis of the facts of this case  I dont think  
Zurich is liable to pay.
As Ive said I think the compensation  offered is reasonable. Im not clear if Mrs B and Mrs B 
accepted the offer.  If they didnt and would like to accept it, they should  contact Zurich 
directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5802632