K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Financial & Legal  Insurance Company Ltd (FLIC) wont  cover  a 
professional negligence claim and neighbour dispute under a legal expenses section of a 
Home insurance policy. For ease Ill refer to this as the policy.
FLIC has agents that handle their claims and so references to FLIC include these agents.
background
I issued a provisional decision last month explaining why I was minded to uphold Miss Gs 
complaint. I noted  that there  is a detailed background  which  involves different insurers,  
appointed solicitors and insurance  claims. And although explained in more  detail in the 
provisional decision, a summary of what I said was as follows;
During our investigation the issue between Miss G and FLIC regarding  the neighbour dispute 
has resolved. FLIC accepted that it will give cover and asked Miss G to provide details of a 
solicitor who will act within FLICs fee structure. This point is no longer in dispute  and so 
does not require a final decision as the claim will need to progress having been previously 
declined. The main  point  is that FLIC originally wouldnt cover the claim but now is, and 
Miss Gs content with this.
The professional negligence claim relates to the advice of a barrister  in connection with the 
neighbour dispute. The advice was given in September 2016, but it wasnt  until 2017 that 
Miss G learned it was potentially negligent.  In 2018 solicitors,  apparently  instructed by FLIC, 
gave some advice which  included commentary on the professional negligence matter. This 
concluded that there were some failings in the barristers advice and so may well have been 
negligent. But the extent of any losses was unknown and there was an issue  as to whether 
the claim enjoyed  reasonable prospects of success (a requirement for a claim to be covered 
by a legal  expense policy).
However, while the barristers advice  was given during the life of the policy  with FLIC, it 
wasnt suggested that it might be negligent  advice until after the FLIC  policy  ended. And as 
FLICs policy requires claims to be made within the life of the policy  FLIC  refused to give 
cover on the professional negligence matter.
I explained why I was minded to uphold the complaint and said Id require FLIC to do the 
following;
Instruct panel solicitors to obtain a legal opinion on whether the professional  
negligence claim against the barrister has reasonable prospects of success.
oThe opinion is to be shared with Miss G.
oIf there  are prospects in accord with the policy terms, then cover the claim as 
it would  ordinarily do. 
Pay Miss G £100 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
I set out my reasons as follows:
The policy does set out that its a claims made  one and explains that for a claim to be valid it 
must be reported during the period of insurance.  The issue  in this complaint is that Miss G 
didnt become aware of a claim issue until her policy with FLIC had ended.  
Ref: DRN50905112During the policy period (October 2015 to 2016) Miss G was in receipt of cover under  the 
policy in relation to a legal dispute. Whats apparent  is that FLIC instructed solicitors who 
took part in a mediated settlement with Miss G (and the other side) in September  2016. An 
aspect relating to the dispute  wasnt covered by the policy and thats what  led to Miss G 
seeking advice  (on a private paying basis)  from the barrister whose advice might be 
negligent. 
FLIC was aware of this instruction by Miss G and the inevitability that if she didnt comply the 
settlement it had mediated was likely to fail and further litigation would probably ensue.  
Compliance with the mediated settlement hadnt been completed and Miss G raised an issue 
with FLIC about the barristers advice in March 2017. This was less than five months after 
the policy with FLIC  ended. It was first raised  on 1 March  2017 and in an email to FLIC on 15 
March (13:01) Miss G says someone  was supposed to get back to her about the advice 
taken from the barrister. So, there clearly was an issue about the advice and indeed FLIC 
replied, I assume you wish to make a claim against  the barrister  for potentially negligent 
advice. FLIC, and indeed the investigator, proceeded  on the basis that the revelation of 
potentially negligent  advice didnt arise until 2018 which I dont agree with.
Having thought about these facts carefully  I balance them with the policy  requirement  for 
claims to be made within the period of insurance,  which ended in October  2016  as Miss G 
took cover  with another insurer. Financial Conduct  Authority principles require FLIC to treat 
customers fairly. And industry rules (ICOBS) say an insurer must, among other things, 
handle claims fairly  and not unreasonably  reject  a claim. 
Miss G was involved  in litigation covered by the policy  and indeed  FLIC was dealing  with this 
and had instructed  solicitors to act. The mediated  settlement effectively succeeded  or fell on 
the issue Miss G took professional advice on. I make no criticism that FLIC didnt cover  the 
provision of this advice as it was outside  the heads  of cover in the policy. Miss G acted 
quickly to ensure she got the professional advice necessary so that she could give effect  to 
the mediated settlement that FLIC had covered under the policy. And FLIC, together  with its 
instructed lawyers, were  fully cognisant of the importance of what Miss G needed  to do. 
In the course  of dealing with the claim,  which went beyond the insured period as the 
settlement hadnt  yet been given effect  to, it became apparent quite  quickly  that the advice 
Miss G had received,  so that she could give effect  to the settlement, might have been 
negligent. In these circumstances, while I acknowledge the notification  of the potential claim 
came outside the insured period, Im persuaded its fair and reasonable to require FLIC to 
consider the merit  of the claim. The matters are, in my view, so interlinked that its unfair to 
consider them distinctively separate such that FLIC  can fairly rely on the reason it did to 
reject Miss Gs professional negligence claim.  It was vital and indeed  recommended  that 
Miss G get legal advice  in relation  to what was required to comply  with the settlement 
mediated by FLICs instructed solicitors.
This brings  me to what I consider should  be done to put things right. If the claim had been 
accepted initially  then FLIC would have instructed solicitors to consider whether the 
proposed claim has reasonable prospects of success. This isnt a static  assessment rather 
there has to be reasonable prospects for the duration of the claim.  In other words, while  
there may be prospects initially, this is kept under review  as proceedings develop and 
information is obtained. It might be that an insurer withdraws cover  at a later point in the 
claim because, on the advice  of lawyers, reasonable prospects  no longer exist.
Ref: DRN50905113There is a legal opinion  on prospects  dated 15 October 2018  from solicitors Ill call J. The 
opinion concludes, There may well be negligent advice on the part of [the barrister] but the 
extent of the losses is uncertain  at this time. Im not satisfied this opinion  definitively 
concludes whether reasonable prospects exist or not. The extent of losses point is left 
hanging and as reasonable prospects is something  that can be considered at various 
stages in the duration of a claim, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for this matter  to be 
fully assessed  for prospects of success. While its a matter for FLIC to decide which  
solicitors it instructs to do this, it would be reasonable to return  to J if thats  what FLIC 
decides.
Im mindful also that Miss G has suffered a significant amount of distress  and inconvenience.  
However, her circumstances at that time were not solely down to what Ive determined was a 
failing on FLICs part not to cover her professional negligence claim initially. The other  party  
involved caused significant distress as Miss G outlined  in her correspondence  to FLIC. And 
there was a myriad of connecting  factors  about  Miss Gs personal  circumstances  that were  a 
significant contributory factor too. I accept  though  that a smoother claim process would have 
given Miss G some peace of mind and taken away one of several  factors  that impinged her 
well-being at that time. To acknowledge this, Im satisfied £100 compensation is a fair and 
reasonable award in all the circumstances. 
replies to my provisional  decision
FLIC asked  for an extension to reply until 11 March 2020, which  we granted. But at the time 
of writing I havent seen  a reply from FLIC even though the requested deadline  has passed. 
Miss G says she isnt happy  with the amount of compensation Ive provisionally awarded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought very carefully about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of 
this complaint Im satisfied that the outcome in my provisional decision should remain.
I appreciate Miss G believes she should get more compensation, but I explained why I 
decided £100  was fair compensation because of FLICs failure. Miss Gs personal 
circumstances and those  related to the conduct of her neighbour, in my view, were  causing 
the most  impact. And as these arent related to FLIC, Im not persuaded it would be fair to 
require FLIC  to pay compensation for matters outside of its control. So, Im satisfied £100 is 
fair compensation.
Miss G has queried the process from here. Should she accept this final decision within the 
timeframe below then it becomes legally binding on FLIC. And FLIC will then need to carry 
out the steps at points 1 through  to 2 below. 
Ref: DRN50905114my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Financial & Legal Insurance Company  Ltd to do the 
following;
1.Instruct panel solicitors to obtain a legal opinion on whether the professional  
negligence claim against the barrister has reasonable prospects of success.
a.The opinion is to be shared with Miss G.
b.If there  are prospects in accord with the policy terms, then cover the claim as 
it would  ordinarily do in line with the remaining policy  terms (setting  aside the 
claims made exclusion).
2.Pay Miss G £100 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
a. FLIC  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell 
it Miss G accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5090511