K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about a default  put on their loan account by Sainsburys Bank  Plc.
background
Mr M and Mrs M said Sainsburys  put a default  against their loan account in 2017. Theyd 
sent correspondence on two occasions to Sainsburys without response. And theyd asked  to 
be contacted by email  as other people used  their property.
Because Sainsburys didnt respond  they were  unable to agree  a temporary arrangement.  
Mr M and Mrs M said theyd never  had confirmation of the balances  on the accounts. And 
they hadnt received any statements before the defaults had been applied. So they want 
proof the outstanding balance is correct. Mr and Mrs M would like to enter  into acceptable 
arrangements with Sainsburys to repay the loan.  And they want the default  removing from 
their account.
Sainsburys said it tried to contact Mr M when he stopped making  payments to the account.  
It traced them to their new address overseas. Mr M complained hed not had a response to 
his letters. But Sainsburys said it hadnt  received them. When  Mr M explained his situation 
Sainsburys agreed to refund  the charges and interest on the account  for a number of 
months. But it wasnt able to agree a repayment  plan with them.
Sainsburys said it wrote  to Mr M and Mrs M in May and June 2017  and gave notice of 
default. The default was applied to the account on 30 June 2017. The bank said the default 
had been applied correctly and in line with its policy. But there were occasions when its 
service hadnt been of the highest standard and it paid Mr M and Mrs M compensation for its 
poor service
Mr M and Mrs M werent satisfied with Sainsburys  response.  So they contacted  our service  
and our investigator looked  into the matter. She felt they were aware a default might be 
added to their account. And she thought Sainsburys had tried to contact Mr M and Mrs M 
about the situation. She said itd applied the default  correctly. And if they wanted to reach  an 
agreement with Sainsburys then Mr M and Mrs M would have to contact  the bank and 
provide the information they required.
Mr M and Mrs M didnt  agree.  So theyve  asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear of the health problems Mr M has experienced.  Hes raised  a number of 
issues with this service. But this complaint is about the default applied to the loan account  he 
held with his wife and whether Sainsburys followed its procedures  correctly.  So Ive looked 
very carefully at everything Mr M and Mrs M and Sainsburys have said.
I dont have any reason  to doubt that the letters were sent to Sainsburys.  But for some  
reason the bank didnt receive  them. And Mr M says he didnt receive  any correspondence 
from Sainsburys about the account  or the notice of default. 
Ref: DRN59723652I can see the account statements were sent to the UK address until the bank became aware  
Mr M and Mrs M had moved overseas. The statements show the outstanding balance  and 
any charges or interest. Sainsburys then continued to correspond with Mr M and Mrs M at 
their new address.
From what  Ive seen its clear Mr M and Mrs M shouldve known there were arrears on the 
loan account.  And I think Sainsburys  made reasonable efforts to make them aware of the 
situation. The bank  wrote on 4 August 2017 to confirm the balance on the loan account  was 
£12,523.55 with the most  recent payment received for £60 on 31 July. 
I do appreciate Mr M and Mrs M wanted the bank  to suspend  the default  while they resolved 
a number of other matters. But Sainsburys  doesnt  have to do that. It felt it was the 
appropriate course of action  after the contractual payments had stopped being made.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Sainsburys applied the default unfairly. It acted within the 
terms and conditions of the account.  It didnt receive their correspondence. But it was able to 
contact them  overseas. And Mr M and Mrs M shouldve received account  statements in the 
UK and then abroad detailing the position  on the loan account. 
Sainsburys gave the necessary notice  before applying the default. And I think its followed 
its procedures correctly.  Sainsburys isnt able to send default  notices  by email. They have to 
be sent by post.  I know Mr M and Mrs M say they didnt  receive  the letters or statements. But 
Ive not seen anything to suggest they werent  sent  any more than I dont doubt Mr M sent 
the letters which Sainsburys didnt receive.
I wouldve  expected  Sainsburys  to respond  positively and sympathetically once it became 
aware of Mr Ms poor health and financial circumstances.  And I can see the bank refunded  
interest and charges for a number of months to help the situation. But it wasnt  able to reach  
a suitable repayment plan with Mr M and Mrs M. And a default was placed on the account.
I know Mr M and Mrs M would like to reach  an arrangement  with the bank.  Its difficult to 
discuss matters with Sainsburys  now that they live abroad. But the bank needs information  
about their income  and expenditure before it can try and find an affordable solution.
I know Mr M and Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome. But, based on what  Ive 
seen, Sainsburys has followed its procedures properly when applying the default to the 
account when  they werent  able to make  any further  payments. And I think its made  
reasonable efforts to keep  them informed  of the situation. So I wont be asking the bank to 
do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5972365