K820x#14complaint
Ms D complained that when she tried to withdraw £200 from a cash machine, she didnt 
receive the cash. But Nationwide Building  Society still debited  £200 from her account.
Ms D is seeking that Nationwide pay her the £200 that she says she never received from the 
cash machine, but its declined  to do so.  
background
Ms D attended a cash machine, sited outside  a retail outlet in a high street,  at 10.14am,  on 
Sunday 2 September  2018. She planned to take out £200, which was in part to pay for her 
shopping in that retail  outlet. Ms D says the cash machine went  through the motions of 
dispensing the cash, but no notes were  discharged  from the dispenser. 
She says that there was a queue at the cash  machine but there was nothing  suspicious or 
out of the ordinary that she noticed. She says she waited until the next customer  used the 
machine and asked  them  if her notes had got dispensed with their notes in error - but they 
said the correct  money was issued to them.
Ms D says she still shopped in the retail outlet, paying for it by using a joint account  card,  
also held with Nationwide;  then she returned home and reported  the incident  to Nationwide.  
Ms D says she receives a monthly  pension of £270.42 into her account, and usually 
withdraws most of it within a few days of receiving it, taking cash  from a cash  machine.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Nationwide needed to pay the £200  to Ms D. He 
found that what shed said about her attendance at the cash machine, and the way she says 
she uses the account that this transaction was intended to be made  from, was consistent 
with what the account  statements showed. There is also no dispute that Ms D attended  the 
cash machine, as she claims,  and that she at least started the process of withdrawing £200.  
The adjudicator also saw evidence that Ms D made a purchase, for £41.75,  at the retail  
outlet, using a joint account card.    
As regards  the cash machine itself, its not controlled by Nationwide.  Its operated  
independently and is owned, balanced,  filled and maintained by another  company.  And 
CCTV footage  of the machine, at the time the transaction was made  isnt available either. 
But the adjudicator was able to review the evidence obtained by Nationwide  from that 
independent company and obtain additional  evidence himself from that company. 
That evidence showed a record of the individual transactions made at the cash  machine  
throughout the day. It had recorded  that Ms Ds transaction was started at 10:14:18 with the 
personal identification number being entered 5 seconds later. It recorded that the balance 
was displayed, and £200 cash was requested. It then recorded  that between  10:16:03  and 
10:16:13 the notes were  stacked, presented and taken. Theres  also a record  of what  notes 
were dispensed.    
The adjudicator considered that the record  of the cash withdrawal, as reflected in the cash  
machine-produced evidence, presented a credible explanation of what had happened when 
Ms D attended the cash machine, albeit he acknowledged that she says she never  received  
the notes. But he also acknowledged that Ms Ds use of the joint account, unusually,  to 
purchase goods reflected the plausibility of her not having received cash from the machine.   
Ref: DRN52228702The adjudicator reviewed the record of the cash withdrawal made  straight after that of Ms D. 
This recorded a transaction  starting at 10:17:30 and the notes, £80, having  been taken by 
10:18:17. He concluded  that this subsequent transaction was successful, and didnt think he 
could say, from the evidence, that this customer was being  untruthful when he said he only 
received the cash  he requested. 
The company operating  the cash machine also provided evidence  in respect of its balancing 
of the cash machine. There was no record of Ms Ds funds being returned to within  the cash  
machine and if the notes hadnt been taken by anyone, this would have happened.  
The machine  would  show as appropriately out of balance,  assuming that there was no 
counter transaction error, but no other  claims were  made by customers using that machine, 
between balances  of the machine. And against all of that background, the adjudicator was 
also able to review  the record  made of the full days transactions  and the running total of the 
cash left in the machine after each transaction. This all reconciled.   
In conclusion, the adjudicator was satisfied the cash machine was working fine when Ms D 
visited it. The cash machine-produced evidence suggests the cash  was issued correctly  
throughout the day to users, including Ms D. The balancing, and physical  checks, of the 
cash machine over the relevant time in relation to Ms Ds transaction, showed that Ms Ds 
cash was removed from the machine.
Of course,  the adjudicator couldnt  say for certain  that it had been Ms D who took the cash 
and he didnt doubt the integrity of the claim made  by Ms D about not receiving the cash she 
requested. But he said that this didnt  meant  that he could conclude that Nationwide had 
acted incorrectly in treating the £200 cash,  requested by Ms D from the cash  machine, as 
being successfully  and properly dispensed.   
Ms D didnt accept the view of the adjudicator and has requested  a review of the complaint 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D is adamant that she never received  the £200  cash. She has no further  evidence  or 
arguments to present  but, understandably, shes still seeking  that Nationwide  now pays  her 
that sum.
Ive carefully looked at all the evidence in this matter  and I have to say that the adjudicator 
has correctly interpreted  and described  what that shows. I dont need to set that all out again 
as this was done in some detail in the view letter  issued by the adjudicator   seen by both 
parties to this dispute  and summarised  above. 
Im therefore  left, in making my determination of this complaint, to weigh the compelling 
system-based evidence  presented by the bank that all reflects  that the cash machine 
dispensed the £200; against the entirely  credible and consistent  claims  of Ms D that she 
never removed the cash from the machine.
Ref: DRN52228703Of course,  all of that may be true. It is entirely possible that a third party scammer has used  
a sophisticated  trick to distract Ms D at the crucial  time when she was at the cash  machine 
so that the cash  was properly dispensed  by the machine but not received by Ms D.
I note that Ms D has no recollection  of such a scam taking place but that doesnt  mean  that it 
didnt occur and, taking into account all the evidence in the matter  I think  this is, most  likely, 
what happened here. And in the event  of that being  the circumstances, Im afraid that I cant  
ask Nationwide  to pay Ms D the £200  she says she never received from the machine.
While this would mean Ms D has been  the victim of a cruel and upsetting deception, this has 
been carried out by a scammer and I cant ask Nationwide to take responsibility for the loss 
that resulted from such a scam when it, via the cash machine, properly provided  the cash it 
was asked to and an unknown third party intervened, preventing it from being  safely 
received by Ms D.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5222870