K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds  handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva  includes its agents.
background
Mr G was in an accident  on a roundabout. He said the other driver was to blame  for the 
accident. Aviva told Mr G it would look to settle the claim on a 50/50 shared liability  basis.  
Mr G was very unhappy with Avivas  service including, amongst  other things, its position on 
liability and the quality of the repairs to his car. He complained. Aviva acknowledged that it 
had caused Mr G some inconvenience  because the repairs werent initially  up to standard 
and his car had to go back  to the garage a number of times. It paid him around £531 to 
address that. But it didn't change its view on the liability aspect of Mr Gs claim.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. After hed done so he contacted  the other drivers insurer 
himself. The other drivers  insurer  accepted full liability for the accident and refunded  Mr Gs 
excess. On that basis Aviva said it would change its position on liability and seek to recover  
its outlay - what it had paid to settle the claim - from the other drivers insurer. And it said it 
would reinstate Mr Gs no claims discount  once  it had recovered its outlay.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 August 2020. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Gs made  a number of detailed points. And I've considered  
every piece of evidence that he and Aviva have provided. But in this decision I will focus  on 
what I see as being the key outstanding points.
liability
Mr G is extremely  unhappy that Aviva said it considered him to be at least 50% to blame for 
the accident.
Its important that I make  it clear  that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, 
as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Gs policy  allows 
Aviva to settle claims as it sees fit. That means  it doesnt require Mr Gs consent  to decide 
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision  that Mr G doesnt agree with. But Ill look to 
see if its done so reasonably.  
In this case Mr G had helpfully provided dashcam footage of the incident, photos of the cars 
following it, aerial photos of the accident  location  and a sketch. And it might  help if I briefly 
summarise how the accident happened. 
Mr G and the other driver  were both approaching a junction from opposite directions.  The 
junction is controlled by a mini roundabout. The roundabout itself isn't a physical 
construction with a kerb or other  barrier but is essentially painted onto the road surface. As 
Ref: DRN56677802such there is nothing structural to prevent cars driving straight over the middle of the 
roundabout itself. 
For ease of describing what happened  it might  help if I simplify the picture by comparing the 
junction to a clock face.  Mr G was approaching the roundabout from 6 oclock and intending 
to leave it at 12 oclock.  The other  driver was approaching from 12 oclock and intending to 
leave it at 9 oclock.  The other driver entered the roundabout slightly ahead of Mr G, but 
rather than driving all the way around  the roundabout, she took a sharp turn to the right - as 
if she was turning right at a junction  without  a roundabout. So, she drove over,  rather than 
round, the roundabout  marked  on the road surface.  By that time Mr G had also entered the 
roundabout and was in front of the nine oclock exit when the two cars came together.
When Aviva  considered who was likely to be at fault for the accident,  it said that it was 
Mr Gs responsibility  to look to his right to ensure  that there was nothing coming before 
entering the roundabout.  It said that as the other  driver  was already established on the 
roundabout, then he shouldnt have entered it when he did. But it later added  that because  
the other driver didn't  take the correct route round  the roundabout she was also partly to 
blame for the accident.  
In contrast  Mr G said he did look right but there wasn't a car to his right at the time that he 
entered the roundabout. That was because although  the other driver had technically entered  
the roundabout to his right, in reality she was still directly facing him and so wasnt on his 
right-hand side at the time. And he said that if the other driver had driven around the 
roundabout, as she was supposed  to, as opposed to across  it as she did, then the two cars 
wouldn't have  come  together. 
I have considerable  sympathy with Mr Gs view. It would certainly appear to me that if the 
other driver hadn't taken  a route  straight across the mini roundabout it seems  most unlikely 
that the two cars would have come  together. I've seen that Aviva did consider this but 
concluded that even if the other  driver had taken the correct  route around the roundabout the 
cars would still have come together. Although  it said the contact  would have been  to the 
back of Mr Gs car. But I don't find that argument persuasive. Thats because I think that the 
extra distance and time involved in the other  driver  taking the correct route around the 
roundabout would have  meant that Mr Gs car would have cleared the nine o'clock exit 
before the other driver arrived there.
But, as I've said above, its not for me to determine whos at fault for an accident.  So, the fact 
that I'm not persuaded by Avivas interpretation of events doesn't automatically mean that its 
done anything  wrong. So, I need to go beyond my thoughts on how the accident happened 
and consider whether Avivas approach was fair and reasonable. And I don't think it was. 
When looking to settle such claims I think it's fair for insurers  like Aviva to attempt  to settle it 
on the most  favourable terms realistically achievable  for its customer.  But I don't think it did 
so in this case.  It seems  that Aviva  considered  the dashcam footage  and simply decided  
Mr G was at least  partly  to blame  because  the other driver entered  the roundabout  
fractionally ahead of him. And because of that I can't see that it ever offered Mr Gs 
arguments - that the other driver  was to blame for cutting across the roundabout - to the 
other drivers  insurer  and asked it for its opinion on that. And as I don't think  liability  in this 
case was cut and dried  I think  it should  have done that. 
Also, Aviva didn't dispute that the other  driver blatantly didn't follow  the appropriate rules for 
negotiating a roundabout.  And in those circumstances, at the very least I would have thought 
Ref: DRN56677803it was fair for Aviva to offer the dashcam  footage and other evidence to the other drivers 
insurer, along with Mr G's allegations of fault, to establish  the other insurers  position.  But I 
havent seen any evidence that it did that prior to telling Mr G that he was at least partly to 
blame for the accident.  I don't think that was reasonable.
Mr G approached the other drivers  insurer himself.  That insurer considered Mr Gs 
arguments and quickly agreed to accept  liability - on a without prejudice  basis - that its driver 
was at fault for the accident.  And it equally quickly refunded Mr Gs excess. But that took 
place almost five months after the accident. And its likely that if Aviva  had taken that action 
itself sooner the other drivers insurer would have accepted liability  sooner. So, I think  
Avivas failure to put Mr G's arguments to the other drivers insurer  was unreasonable.  
I think its worth noting that Mr G has suggested  that Aviva  had deliberately  tried to get him 
to accept a 50/50  settlement as he believed  that this would boost Avivas profits. But Im 
satisfied hes mistaken.  In putting  forward a 50/50 split liability proposal the most Aviva could 
ever have recovered from the other  drivers insurer would  have  been  half of its outlay.  As 
opposed to recovering  all of its outlay if the other insurer  accepted  that its driver was at fault. 
So, Aviva had nothing  to gain, and at least 50% of its outlay to lose, by putting  forward a 
50/50 split liability  decision. Mr Gs suggested that after he accepted  the 50/50 proposal 
Aviva would have  then sought  a full liability acceptance from the other insurer. But Ive seen 
no evidence, beyond  Mr G's allegation, that persuades me thats the case.
repairs
Aviva arranged for one of its approved  repairers  to fix Mr Gs car. But Mr G wasn't  happy  
with the quality of repairs.  One of Avivas field engineers  inspected  Mr G's car. He agreed 
that the repairs weren't up to standard.  Aviva's approved repairer  had a second attempt at 
putting things  right. But again, Mr G wasnt happy with the repairs  and the field engineer  
agreed with him. At that point Aviva agreed for Mr Gs chosen garage to put things right. And 
I think that was a reasonable thing to do. Also, Aviva paid Mr G around  £231 in recognition 
of any depreciation  to his car because  of the quality  of repairs. This isn't something his policy 
covers and is somewhat  unusual but it seems that Aviva agreed to this in recognition of the 
inconvenience it had caused to Mr G. Also, it paid him £300 compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience  because of the issues he experienced  with the repairs. And I think  that 
sum is reasonable  in the circumstances, as its at the higher end of awards that this service 
would make in cases  of similar seriousness.
legal protection  cover
Mr G complained that Aviva didn't allow him to use the legal protection cover section of his 
policy to pursue a claim for his uninsured losses. It might help if I explain that Mr Gs policy  
includes cover  to pay for reasonable legal costs  to pursue a claim against  another  party for 
other losses not covered by the general  terms of his motor policy.  That includes things  like 
his excess. And Mr G wanted  to use that cover  to secure a liability  decision, in court if 
necessary, that found the other driver at fault.  But Aviva said that he didn't qualify for the 
legal protection  cover.  
As I understand it the policy only provided legal protection cover  for non-fault accidents.  In 
other words Aviva will only offer the cover where its satisfied that the other party is 100% to 
blame for the accident.  But at the time when Mr G was looking to use that cover  Aviva 
thought he was at least  partly  at fault for the accident. And as such, at that time, Aviva said 
he didn't meet the criteria for the cover. But Ive noted that Mr Gs policy says that a decision 
Ref: DRN56677804on whether or not it would pursue a claim for uninsured losses  will be made by a lawyer. But 
I can't see that Aviva asked a lawyer to make that decision  on whether or not Mr G qualified 
for cover. And, from the evidence Ive seen, this decision was made  by Aviva itself. That said 
once the other drivers insurer accepted liability for the incident Mr G no longer  needed  to 
claim on the legal protection policy.
compensation 
Mr G said that Aviva's handling  of the claim has been a source  of significant distress and 
inconvenience for him. Amongst other  things  he's referred to sleepless nights, countless 
hours researching  information on the internet and many hours spent corresponding  with 
Aviva and others. Mr G said Aviva would need  to pay him at least  £6,000 to compensate him 
for the impact its handling of the claim has had on him. 
I should say that in cases such as this, where theres been an accident and liability  is in 
dispute, its usual  for those involved  to suffer some inconvenience and stress. And that's  
often the case  even where  we think that insurers have handled matters well and things have 
gone as smoothly  as can be expected.  And we consider numerous complaints about liability 
disputes and the impact  of those. 
Having considered this case very carefully,  I don't see it as being significantly  different to 
many of the other  cases  we consider. And while I've looked at everything Mr Gs said, I don't 
think that compensation of £6,000, or anywhere  near that sum, is warranted. Thats because 
we would only award a sum anywhere  near that figure in the most extreme of cases.  And I 
don't find that this is such a case.  Indeed, while I recognise Mr Gs frustration as what he 
sees as Avivas unfair handling  of his claim, I think some of his allegations are unfounded.  
For example, hes alleged that Aviva has tried to defraud him. But I've seen no supporting 
evidence of that. 
That said I accept Aviva did unnecessarily cause Mr G distress and inconvenience. And, 
having considered this very carefully I think that further compensation of £450  is warranted. 
That brings the total compensation  figure  up to £750, which  is a substantial  sum, and is in 
line with awards we make with cases with similar seriousness. I understand Mr G is unlikely 
to be satisfied with that sum but as I've said above,  I've thought about this very carefully and 
am satisfied  that amount is fair.
developments
Neither Aviva nor Mr G agreed with my provisional  decision. 
Aviva said that the liability aspect  was not clear cut in the slightest. But argued that as the 
other driver was in a right-turn  only lane and indicating then Mr G had to bear some 
responsibility for ensuring he knew what route  the other driver was going to take round the 
roundabout. And as he didn't, and the other  driver had right of way, that it means he was at 
least partly  to blame, which supports its decision to offer a 50/50 split liability.
Aviva said the fact that the other drivers  insurer accepted  liability was a red herring. It felt 
that just because that happened when Mr G approached the other insurer didn't mean it 
would have achieved  the same outcome. It added  that the policy allows  it to decide how to 
deal with a claim. It said it used  its expertise  when  arriving  at its 50/50 liability decision and it 
stands by its decision and approach.  It added that it has a duty to all its policy holders to 
ensure it only incurs reasonable costs in pursuing claims. And if it pursued the other  driver  
Ref: DRN56677805on every  claim  where it thought liability wasn't  in its favour  then its costs  would increase and 
it would  have to pass those costs on to its policyholders  in increased premiums.
Aviva said the policy offers legal protection cover where it deems it necessary and cost 
effective. It said that given all its case handling  experts felt that Mr G was at least  in part to 
blame for the accident  it wasn't  fair to disregard their judgement  in not offering the cover 
simply because  the policy wording refers  to a lawyers opinion. It said it should  be trusted 
to make its own decisions and to keep costs down.
Aviva also felt the compensation sum I provisionally  awarded was very high especially as it 
had already paid Mr G £300 compensation.
Mr G made  a number of points. I don't intend to summarise everything he said here but will 
focus on the key point  that I think need  to be addressed. He said the compensation Id 
provisionally awarded wasn't enough to address the 300 hours of his time he'd invested in 
the matter, or the mental torture  and damage  he experienced.  He said I couldn't compare 
his case with other peoples as they too might have been defrauded. He suggested Id 
probably have  done an under the table  telephone  deal with Aviva to jointly defraud  me out 
of my fully justifiable £6,000 compensation.
Mr G added that in his first phone  call with Aviva it told him it would hold him 100% at fault 
for the accident  but later offered 50% fault instead of 100%. He said I knew from that point 
on that they were  trying  to defraud me
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I don't intend  to change 
my provisional decision. 
liability
Aviva has continued  to argue its stance that Mr G was at least  50% at fault for the accident  
was reasonable.  In particular it's said that because the other driver had indicated before she 
entered the roundabout means that Mr G must  at least  be partially at fault for the accident. 
But I don't  think  that matters. 
First, its certainly  not clear to me from the dashcam  footage I've seen that the other driver 
did indicate before she entered the roundabout. But even if she did that doesn't  mean  it was 
reasonable for her to blatantly ignore the accepted driving rules  when negotiating a 
roundabout by driving straight across rather than round it. And as I said in my provisional 
decision if shed followed the rules, then I think its extremely unlikely the accident would 
have happened.
Further, as I said in my provisional decision its not for me to make  a ruling on liability. 
Instead what I've considered is whether or not Aviva dealt with the matter  fairly. And Im well 
aware Mr Gs policy allows Aviva  to settle claims as it deems fit. But Aviva  acknowledged 
that liability wasnt clear  cut. However, it didn't  ever put Mr G's arguments that the other 
driver was to blame  to her insurer. And I don't think that was fair. I wouldn't expect Aviva  or 
any other insurer  to invest time and resources into pursuing  a liability  dispute that didn't 
have a realistic prospect  of success. But in this case, for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision, I think there was always a reasonable prospect of success. So, at the 
Ref: DRN56677806very least,  I think it would  have been  reasonable to expect Aviva to put Mr Gs allegations to 
the other insurer to see what  its response  was. I don't think  that would have been particularly 
resource intensive.  So I don't think the amount of resource required to make such  an enquiry 
means it was reasonable for Aviva not to at least see what  the other insurers  response to 
the allegations were.
Aviva said the fact the other insurer eventually accepted liability was a red herring. And that 
we cant criticise  it because  of other  insurers unpredictable decisions. But I disagree. First, 
I don't think the other insurers decision was unpredictable. As I've said above I think  
given the other drivers clear breach of the guidance in the Highway Code and accepted  
driving protocols   there  was always  a reasonable chance that the other insurer would have 
accepted liability.  Also, Aviva seems to be arguing  that the other insurer might  have reached  
a different decision on liability if Aviva had put Mr Gs allegations to it sooner. But while  I 
haven't seen any evidence  to support that argument,  even if its accurate Aviva didn't ever 
try and find out what the other insurers stance on liability was. And as I've said above, I don't 
think that was fair. So I don't think Aviva dealt with the liability  issue reasonably.
legal protection  cover  
Aviva has argued its fair for it to rely in its own discretion  as opposed  to that of a lawyer   
when deciding whether Mr G was eligible for legal protection cover. But I think  that lawyers  
will generally have a better understanding of whether or not a claim has prospects of 
success through a legal route than Avivas  case handlers will. And that may be why Aviva  
wrote its policy  to say that a lawyer  and not one of Avivas case handlers  will make  that 
decision. But Aviva  didn't  deliver on what its policy says will happen.  And, given the matter 
wasn't clear  cut, the involvement of lawyers at an early stage might have helped  Aviva with 
its decision making on liability. But this is something of a moot  point as - given the other 
insurer accepted  liability - Mr G didn't ultimately need the legal protection  cover.
compensation and allegations of fraud 
Mr G has continued to argue that a minimum of £6,000  of compensation is appropriate. And 
in doing so hes implied that in not awarding  that sum in compensation I and my colleagues 
are complicit  in defrauding him.
Fraud is a very serious allegation, it goes to someone's  integrity and it alleges a criminal  act. 
And, if proven, could  have serious  implications. But its an easy  allegation  to make,  even 
where, as here Mr G hasn't provided  any supporting  evidence to justify it. My role requires 
me to make independent and impartial decisions that might cause upset to those affected by 
them. But the fact my decisions might disappoint or upset consumers or businesses  doesn't 
mean that they were arrived at unfairly or were  motivated by some ulterior  motive. And in 
every case  I look at I make my judgement about  what is fair and reasonable based  on the 
specific facts of the case. I take into account things like the relevant law, regulatory  rules, 
codes of practice and industry standards. And having considered those  I arrive  at my 
decision as to what I feel is fair and reasonable in the context of the case  at hand. Thats 
what I did here and Im satisfied I've reached a fair outcome, although  I understand that 
neither Mr G nor Aviva agree with me.
Also Im not sure what Mr G thinks I would  stand to gain by engaging in an under the table 
deal to reduce  the amount  of compensation payable to him. And Ill remind Mr G that, where 
a consumer accepts  my decision, it becomes  legally  binding  on the business. So (subject  to 
our limits) Aviva would have to pay the compensation figure  I awarded  regardless of its 
Ref: DRN56677807opinion on the matter. It's not something I negotiate on. And I have nothing  personally to 
gain in awarding or not awarding  compensation.
Further, if my aim was to defraud  Mr G, then I didn't  have to uphold his complaint at all. I 
could have agreed with our investigators view and simply not upheld his complaint.  Had I 
done so I wouldn't have been required  to send him a provisional decision.  And I could have 
simply issued  a final decision, without awarding any compensation and without  giving him 
the opportunity  to comment on it. But I didn't  think that was fair, and thats why I wrote my 
provisional decision upholding the complaint.
Mr Gs also continued to argue that Aviva set out to defraud  him. He's suggested that Aviva 
initially telling him it would  hold him 100% to blame but later changing this to 50% is 
evidence of that. But I disagree.  I don't  see how an insurer  changing their stance  on liability 
is evidence of an attempt  to defraud. It simply means its changed  its position.  I haven't  seen 
any evidence of fraud by Aviva (or anyone else) and I find Mr Gs allegations 
unsubstantiated and unfounded.
Mr Gs said a sum of £6,000 compensation is merited, in part, because  hes had to spend  
around 300 hours dealing  with the matter.  While  that might be the case we don't make 
awards for distress and inconvenience  based  on an hourly rate. Instead, when deciding  
whether to make an award, and if so how much, Ill look at the impact a business mistakes 
and omissions have had on a consumer.  Ill also think about other awards I've made in 
cases of similar seriousness. And thats  what I've done in this case.
Mr Gs said we shouldnt compare his case to other  peoples as they might  also have been 
defrauded. But we award  compensation based on our analysis, expertise and our 
assessment of how an individuals been affected  by a business errors and omissions. And, 
in order to be consistent we compare those  awards with other cases of similar seriousness. 
And thats what I did here. The fact that Mr G might  not agree  with my conclusions on his 
case simply doesn't amount to credible  evidence of fraud. 
For completeness Ill add that if Mr G thinks the £450 compensation doesn't  go far enough 
he doesn't have  to accept it. And in those circumstances he can take any other action, for 
example through the courts, he feels will resolve  his complaint.
In contrast  Aviva  felt that my award of £450  compensation  was very high especially as it 
had already paid Mr G £300 concerning  his complaints about the quality of repairs.  But the 
£300 figure only addressed the distress  and inconvenience Mr G suffered because of the 
quality of repairs. So it didn't consider the key points of Mr Gs complaint  which  concerned 
his dissatisfaction  with how Aviva had handled  the question of liability.  And Mr G has painted 
a very clear picture of how significantly this issue has affected him. And having considered 
his evidence, for the reasons I gave  in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that further 
compensation of £450 is warranted. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to 
pay Mr G a further £450 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience  arising 
from its handling of the claim. It should  pay the compensation within  28 days  of us telling it 
that Mr G has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple .1 
Ref: DRN56677808Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Aviva considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5667780