K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she has been financing though an agreement with FirstRand  
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), has not been of satisfactory 
quality. She also complains that she was not allowed  to cancel her contract when she 
realised payments were  too high.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2020. I explained why I was planning  to uphold 
Mrs Bs complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision  is set out below:
Mrs B took receipt of a used car in July 2018. She financed the deal through a 61 month hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo.
The day after she signed  the deal Mrs B took the car back to the dealership and asked  them 
to allow  her to cancel her agreement as shed realised the payments were too high. She 
complains that they would not let her do so without incurring a cancellation charge.
She also told them, at that point,  about  a problem with the air conditioning. The dealership  
tried to repair the problem  but four repair attempts in July failed. In August 2018 Mrs B asked 
the dealership  to allow her to reject the car because they had failed to repair it. Later, in 
October 2018, Mrs B got a quote from a main dealership  to resolve  the problem. They said 
the whole  air conditioning system would need to be replaced.
Mrs B said she should have been  allowed to reject the car but MotoNovo disagreed.  They 
said they would not allow that because of a fault with the air conditioning.  But they did agree 
to help with the repair  if Mrs B could provide them with quotations  for the work.
Disappointed with MotoNovos response; Mrs B referred her complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator said Mrs Bs rights to cancel the agreement were clearly set out in the terms of 
her finance  agreement and that there  was a cancelation fee due in those circumstances. He 
therefore didnt  think MotoNovo had done anything wrong when asking for that to be paid.
He understood  that there had been several  attempts to fix the air conditioning and that these 
had failed. He said in those circumstances there may have been a case for Mrs B to be 
allowed to reject the car. But he thought  it was clear that repairs had been accepted so he 
didnt think it would  be reasonable to do that now.
Mrs B didnt agree with the adjudicators view and she therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the adjudicators view and Im expecting to uphold this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN50593102Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the cancellation charges
The terms of Mrs Bs contract explained that she had a right to cancel it if she did so within  
the first 14 days. It said:
If you exercise your right to withdraw, you must repay the credit  and interest accrued 
from the date the credit  was provided  to the date of repaying it to us
So I dont  think it would  be fair to suggest MotoNovo have done anything  wrong here. There 
were clearly some costs associated  with early cancellation and Ive not seen evidence  that 
suggests Mrs B was in any way misled into forming the agreement.  It appears  that she 
simply had second  thoughts.
the quality of the car
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs B. The car 
here was about  three years old and had already  completed about 36,000 miles. So Id 
expect a little wear and tear but I dont think a reasonable person would expect a key feature  
of the car, such as the air conditioning,  not to work.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right. 
Theres no dispute that the repairs to the air conditioning  failed.
Ive seen that repairs were attempted on four occasions in July but that Mrs B was still 
complaining of faults in October 2018 when a message  from the dealership to MotoNovo 
confirmed theyd replaced almost  everything  but that the fault persisted. 
I think its most likely  this fault was present when the car was supplied to Mrs B because  I 
can see she complained  about it straight away. So I think it was MotoNovos responsibility to 
resolve the problem.  
The relevant  legislation  allows MotoNovo one opportunity to repair  a fault that is present at 
the point of supply. But if the repair fails the consumer should be allowed  to reject the car.
Ref: DRN50593103Im not persuaded Mrs B accepted the repairs. She appears to have been  given no option. I 
can see that she asked  to reject the car in a letter to the dealership in August but Ive not 
seen that they replied. I can also see that she asked to reject  the car in September 2018 
when she wrote to MotoNovo. But their system notes suggest they explained that they would 
not allow it for an air conditioning fault.
I dont think it was fair to suggest an air conditioning  fault was so trivial as to be unimportant 
or not weighty enough to warrant rejection. I think it was a feature of the car that a 
reasonable person would expect to function  correctly.
the redress
So I think MotoNovo  should now allow Mrs B to reject the car and collect  it at no cost to her 
whilst terminating the finance agreement. They should return Mrs Bs deposit and add 
interest to this payment as Mrs B has been  deprived  of that money  whilst  funding a car that 
wasnt of an acceptable  standard.
Mrs B had problems with the air conditioning from the onset  of the agreement in July 2018 
until the problem  was resolved in November 2018: about four months. During  that period she 
was able to drive the car but use was a little impaired as she explained it was very hot 
inside. With this in mind I think its fair for MotoNovo to retain the majority of the payments 
Mrs B has made towards her agreement but they should refund one instalment in respect  of 
impaired usage.
Mrs B has also been inconvenienced by these issues.  For example, she asked to reject  the 
car on at least a couple of occasions but was denied. She also had to take the car to the 
dealership for repairs on several occasions and shes had to prepare  and pursue her 
complaint through this service.  In the circumstances  I think it would be reasonable for 
MotoNovo to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience caused, and I think  £300  is 
about right.
my provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell FirstRand Bank  Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mrs B;
refund  Mrs Bs deposit adding 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
refund  one monthly finance instalment and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment in July 2018 to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs B £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to her credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Ref: DRN50593104my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo didnt provide any further  information  for me to consider but Mrs Bs 
representative asked  some further  questions.  He said the agreement puzzlingly included  a 
personal loan element  of £2,579.88 that Mrs B was aware of. He wanted clarification that my 
final decision  to terminate  the finance agreement  would include the termination of the 
personal loan.
Ive had a look at the agreement and its clear that it comprises of two elements. A hire 
purchase agreement  for £8,484.69 and a personal  loan for £2,579.88 both advances were to 
have the same interest applied and were to be repaid over the same  duration.  MotoNovo 
explained that the price of the car was £9,552 and the negative equity in Mrs Bs previous 
car deal was £1,712.57. They provided  a personal loan to cover  the negative  equity in her 
previous car deal.  Mrs B appears to have over borrowed £867.31 and she paid a deposit  of 
£200.
So I think MotoNovo  dont need  to refund most  of the personal loan as its clear  that it was to 
fund the negative equity of Mrs Bs part exchange.  But that negative equity was only 
£1,712.57and there seems to have been  an over borrowing  of £867.31 on the personal loan. 
MotoNovo have explained that sum may need to be considered as part of the deposit and, in 
the absence of any other reasonable  explanation,  I agree. So, Im asking MotoNovo to 
refund a deposit of £1067.31 plus interest.
The representative also explained that Mrs Bs car was stolen on 10 October  2019  and 
hadnt been recovered. He said Mrs B had been  paying towards her agreement since  then 
and he wanted  me to consider refunding those payments along with any charges that may 
have been applied. 
The settlement  of Mrs Bs insurance claim is not related to her complaint  here which is about 
the quality of the car she was provided. I can see that an insurance  settlement has been 
paid towards the balance  of the account. I understand that any insurance  settlement and the 
settlement provided  under  this claim may need some unravelling. For instance, there may 
need to be consideration  of any overpayment since the car was stolen. But thats  not my 
remit so I wont comment  on it any further.
Mrs Bs representative also asked about  a further  complaint  Mrs B has about GAP 
insurance. He said that GAP insurance  appears  to have been paid for under this finance 
agreement but that it appears it was never taken out by the dealership on Mrs Bs behalf. 
Ive asked MotoNovo  about this and theyve  confirmed  that this agreement didnt finance any 
GAP insurance. Ive seen  a copy of their system screen that shows no GAP insurance  was 
entered into. So I think this is a complaint that will need to be addressed,  in the first instance, 
to the dealership who Mrs B suggests  sold her the GAP insurance. Its not something Im 
considering here.
Ref: DRN50593105my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited  to:
terminate the finance  agreement but not the personal loan;
refund  Mrs Bs deposit of 1067.31  adding  8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund  one monthly finance instalment and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment in July 2018 to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs B £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to her credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5059310