K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about a level term assurance (LTA) policy  he was required to take out 
by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)   in 1997  to cover the maximum allowable 
advance of £20,000 he could take under  an Education Expenses  Plan over 20 years.
Specifically, Mr M says that he thought  the policy was a savings policy  with life cover that 
would repay  the debt hed accrued under  the Plan in 2017. He now appreciates that the 
policy provides life cover only and it was therefore  mis-sold to him.
To settle  his complaint, Mr M has requested RBS to write-off 50 per cent of the interest  he 
has been charged from time-to-time on the outstanding debt over the full term of the Plan 
and to refund all the policy  premiums to him.
background
Mr M and his then wife took out the Education  Expenses Plan in 1997.  
RBS required them each  to take out life cover of £20,000 over 20 years  through  an individual  
level term assurance policy that would repay the amount  owed up to a facility limit of 
£20,000 if either one of them died before the debt was due to be repaid. 
It seems  that Mr Ms wife also took out an investment  to repay  the outstanding debt if neither 
of them  had died when the Plan matured in 2017.  In the meantime, Mr M paid the ongoing  
interest due on the outstanding amount they owed.  
However, in 2005,  Mr M agreed to take responsibility for repaying the amount  advanced  
under the Plan. Also, RBS has confirmed that the term assurance  policy  and the investment 
taken out by Mr Ms wife were cancelled some time ago.
When the total amount advanced was due for repayment in July 2017,  RBS wrote to Mr M to 
inform him that his term assurance policy document would be sent to the insurer which  will 
send the policy proceeds to RBS to clear the outstanding balance under the Plan. This was 
incorrect information as the term assurance policy didnt  provide a maturity value - Mr M 
needed to repay the outstanding debt from his own resources. 
Accordingly, Mr M raised a separate  complaint  that RBS had misinformed him when the Plan 
was due to mature  that the term assurance policy would repay his debt. He continued  to pay 
interest on the outstanding balance while RBS investigated this complaint.      
The complaint made  by Mr M about  the sale of the policy  in 1997 was investigated by one of 
our adjudicators, who didnt think she could uphold  it.
Briefly, she concluded  that, based  on the limited evidence  that exists,  Mr M would have 
known from the policy  schedule he received that the policy  provided life cover of £20,000 
over 20 years. It was not a savings plan, or a policy that was intended to repay a debt that 
could be outstanding in 20 years time.
She added that, as Mr M was married at the time, it was appropriate for him to have  taken 
out a policy  that would repay the debt if he died before it was due to be repaid. Also, RBS 
was entitled to set its own conditions of lending and required Mr M to take out life assurance 
through this policy  which  was assigned to the bank  as security.
Ref: DRN52403892All things  considered, she was satisfied that the policy  was suitable as protection for Mr M 
and it hadnt been sold to him as a savings plan that would repay  the debt in 20 years time.
In response, Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. He said that:
the policy turned out to be a form of payment protection insurance (PPI) that gave 
him no value for the total premiums he paid of more than £2,000;
RBS sent the policies  for encashment to the insurer and wrote to him advising that 
the facility would be repaid from the proceeds. So, the bank must have viewed the 
policy in the same  light as he did; i.e. as a means  of repaying the debt;
the Plan facility  limit of £20,000 was unsecured  lending. He asked  whether  or not the 
policy was a product  that was regulated at the time as he couldnt recall  meeting a 
representative of RBS to complete a factfind  to evidence that advice was given. 
Neither did the process of approving the facility show  any discussions took place  
about this policy  and the need for it;
he asks for the two complaints hes made to be reviewed as one to decide whether 
the offer already made by RBS for the mis-information  it provided when the Plan 
matured was fair and reasonable  in settling his two complaints.
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has asked  for the two issues hes complained  about - that the policy was mis-sold to 
him as a savings plan in 1997  and the cost in interest hes incurred on the outstanding debt 
since July 2017  while RBS investigated the incorrect information it provided  in its maturity 
letter - to be reviewed as one by an ombudsman.
But, while I acknowledge that the two complaints both relate to misrepresentation of the term 
assurance policy, they concern two different events. So, Im satisfied that they should be 
addressed separately. And, in any event, Mr M has agreed a settlement with RBS over his 
complaint about  the interest he paid since he could have repaid the debt in July 2017  while  
RBS investigated  it.
This leaves  me to consider his complaint about  the original sale of the policy  in 1997.
RBS has been  unable to provide documentation  which explains precisely how an Education  
Expenses Plan operates,  or what it provides. But Mr M has confirmed that, although it is not 
strictly a loan, it operates as a quasi-overdraft  over 20 years with a facility limit of £20,000.  
As such,  RBS is legitimately entitled  to set its conditions  of lending, overdraft facilities or any 
other forms of borrowing taken by its clients. If, as part of the Education  Expenses Plan, it 
required Mr M to take out life cover that would repay  an amount up to the facility limit of 
£20,000, it could  do so and I cant intervene in that commercial  decision. It was for Mr M to 
decide whether  or not he was prepared to pay for a policy that provided this benefit within 
the ongoing cost of the Plan.
Ref: DRN52403893Having said that, I appreciate  that Mr M agreed to take out the policy  because  he claims he 
was led to believe it was a savings plan that would repay the debt in 20 years time.
But, having  accepted that the policy provides life cover only, Mr M says its comparable with 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  which,  by implication, I assume he believes has proved 
to be inappropriate  for most borrowers.
A term assurance policy is not PPI, and the considerations for assessing the merits of PPI 
are not relevant to the advice Mr M received to take out the term assurance policy.
Briefly, a PPI policy would pay an income  benefit , equivalent to the monthly costs of a loan, if 
Mr M was ever made  unemployed or suffered long term incapacity that prevented him 
working. And, given  the outstanding capital debt under the Plan would vary from time-to-time 
as Mr Ms borrowing  requirement changed, it would be difficult  to set a fixed level of benefit  
that would  always  cover the interest charges.  
On the other hand, a term assurance  policy pays a capital sum in the event of his death at 
any time during  the policy term, equivalent to the maximum outstanding balance under  the 
Plan. So, Mr M would  never  be under-insured and the outstanding  debt would always  be 
repaid in full.
Mr M has also questioned  whether the policy was a regulated product in 1997 as he doesnt 
recall agreeing to take it out following a formal sales process.
All complaints about term assurance policies  sold on or after 14 January 2005 can be 
considered against independent financial advisers  (IFAs) and intermediaries because IFAs 
and intermediaries  became  regulated  from that date and so were covered by our compulsory 
jurisdiction. 
A term assurance policy sold before 14 January 2005 by businesses covered by the 
mortgage code  falls within our jurisdiction where the policy is sold in connection with the 
arrangement of a mortgage, overdraft or any other  form of borrowing facility  and the 
complaint is that the consumer was incorrectly told that they had to have  the policy to secure 
the lending, the policy was misrepresented or it was unsuitable.
But the timing of the sale of the policy to Mr M determines our jurisdiction to consider  his 
complaint - it doesnt decide whether it was inappropriate of RBS to require him to take out 
the policy as condition of the Plan.
I, therefore, need to consider whether theres  a case for Mr M being led to believe in 1997 
that the policy was one that would repay his debt in 20 years time.
As the adjudicator has previously pointed out, the policy  document  Mr M received confirmed 
that the policy would pay £20,000 if he died before 1 August 2017, for which  he paid a 
monthly premium of £8.74.  I would also ask Mr M to consider that its most unlikely that a 
premium of £8.74 per month would repay a debt of up to £20,000 in 20 years time and fund 
life cover of £20,000  in the meantime.
Mr M also seems  to recall that his wife took out an investment expressly  to repay  the debt 
when the Plan matured,  which I understand she subsequently cancelled.  So he ought to 
have known from this that the policy he was required to take out as a condition of the Plan 
Ref: DRN52403894wasnt intended to repay the debt, and there was no longer any provision to repay the debt, 
unless he died before  the Plan matured.  
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5240389