K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled his cash withdrawal  request  while  in 
branch. He says he was asked personal questions  in public which  wasnt appropriate.
background
Last May,  Mr S went into a HSBC branch as he wanted to withdraw £2,000  from his account. 
But he was unhappy  that the member of staff asked him some questions   he hasnt been  
definitive on what those  questions were, but they seem to have been along  the lines of why 
he wanted the money and what it was for. 
Mr S says he felt uncomfortable answering questions like this in public and that his privacy  
was violated. He also felt the questions were unnecessary and given that he was 
withdrawing his own money rather than any sort of credit HSBC were providing  him with, 
they had no place in asking him what he was using it for. 
Mr S answered the questions and withdrew his money, but he made a complaint about  what  
had happened. HSBC  explained that given  their duty of care,  they have procedures for 
larger cash withdrawals  and these cover off identifying the customer and the reason for the 
withdrawal. So they didnt agree theyd done  anything wrong.  
Mr S asked for our help and his concerns were looked into by one of our investigators, but 
she felt HSBC had acted fairly. Mr S remained unhappy so his case was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator, for broadly  the same reasons.  
We dont know for sure exactly what questions were  put to Mr S. But whatever they were, he 
did answer them as Ive seen from his statement that the withdrawal was successfully  made 
on the same  day so there is no loss to be considered there.   
Its standard banking practice for questions to be asked when a significant cash withdrawal 
is requested. Thats  because banks will do what  they can to protect their customers  from 
fraud or scams. 
Mr S didnt agree the questions asked would  go towards helping protect him though  I 
listened to a call he had with our investigator  where he explained that there was CCTV in the 
branch and that he had to give his signature  twice  so he felt HSBC could have been sure it 
was him and not someone impersonating him. 
But as our investigator explained,  asking  why the money was needed had a different 
intention to enquiring as to who wanted the money.  Asking the reason for the withdrawal 
could go some way towards protecting someone  who might have been under  duress,  or 
could go some way to reveal they had been deceived. 
Whatever the questions  were, while they made Mr S uncomfortable, they would have been  
asked with good intention and in order to protect him. Ive not seen anything to persuade  me 
that what HSBC did was unreasonable. Moreover,  banks  have  a regulatory duty to try to 
Ref: DRN57324692prevent their customers being the victims  of fraud  or scams. And all HSBC were  doing here 
were fulfilling their duty in this regard.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
8 June 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5732469