K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
In 1993, BoS sold Mr and Mrs C a monthly premium PPI policy  to protect  their joint mortgage 
repayments if either of them was unable to work because  of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs C disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of the available evidence. Ive carefully considered 
Mr and Mrs Cs arguments that they were  told the PPI was a condition of their mortgage, that 
they were vulnerable and werent  capable  of understanding the PPI. But Ive seen  nothing  to 
suggest BoS led them to believe they had to have the PPI or took advantage  of them.  
Mr and Mrs Cs signed mortgage  application  form shows the amount they were to be 
covered for and how the monthly benefit  was to be split between them. Of course I dont  
know for sure what was said during the sale but I cant fairly say that BoS added this cover 
without getting  their agreement to take it. So I dont uphold the complaint on this basis.
BoS has assessed the complaint as though  it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. That 
favours Mr and Mrs C because it meant  BoS,  among other  things, should  have  taken steps 
to ensure its advice was right for them.  Regardless of what steps it took,  I think the PPI it 
recommended was right for them in any case.  
The policy terms BoS has shown  would have applied in 1993 indicate Mr and Mrs C were  
eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of the main things the PPI excluded  or 
limited cover  for. I cant see that Mr and Mrs C would  have found the monthly premium  
unaffordable either.
Mr and Mrs C were entitled  to enhanced  sick pay for a time but I believe they still had a need  
for the PPI. The PPI benefits were considerable and potentially paid out for up to 12 months 
for each  successful disability claim. It covered them for unemployment too. They say they 
could have relied on family support  but, unlike the PPI benefits, there was no guarantee that 
help would have  been available when it was needed. Ive thought  about  the critical illness 
insurance Mr and Mrs C say they had but that didnt  provide like-for-like cover  when 
compared with the PPI. 
Ref: DRN50742602Considering Mr and Mrs C were  entering  into a long-term financial commitment that was 
secured against  their home, I think they could have benefitted from the PPI and would have 
valued the extra security it provided. 
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs C enough information about the PPI so they could  
make up their own minds if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information  it 
gave them could  have  been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think  
the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think better information would have changed their 
decision to take it. I think  they would still have  thought it gave them  a useful  benefit  at an 
affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe the PPI was mis-sold. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
 so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. BoS should also pay back  to 
Mr and Mrs C any extra interest they paid because of that.
BoS should pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. BoS should also 
pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. 
Ref: DRN50742603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5074260