K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that the car she acquired under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Miss D entered  into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn  to acquire a car in 
October 2017. In April 2018,  she says she was on a motorway when the car lost speed and 
came to a stop. On returning home she noticed a loud noise coming from the engine.
Miss D contacted Moneybarn and says she didnt get the service she should have. She says 
that an inspection  was carried out on the car and after a very short  drive  the engineer told 
her the car had gone into limp mode and was unfit for purpose.  However when the report 
was provided it had a different conclusion. She says she spoke with the engineer who said 
the report was tampered  with. She also noted  that the report said further investigation was 
needed.
Miss D had an investigation carried out by another party which  provided a fault code  linked 
to the turbocharger.  She said that although  the car passed an MOT this would not have 
looked at the issue  she had experienced. She says that the car should have had a major  
service in 2017 before she acquired it but this didnt happen. The next service was not due 
until after the car had broken down.
Miss D also complains that the car should have been supplied  with a full warranty. But she 
was told by the manufacturer that as there was not a full service history  it would not accept 
any liability  for repairs. 
Moneybarn says that the car Miss D acquired  through a conditional sale agreement had 
been driven around 59,500 miles. It says that when Miss D contacted  it a satisfactory  quality 
complaint was raised and an independent  inspection  was arranged and carried out on 
30 April 2018. 
The report  says that there  was an issue  with the car but that it believed the car was fit for 
purpose and of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Moneybarn  further  noted  that 
Miss D had driven around 2,000 miles before the issue was raised  and that the car passed 
an MOT in March 2018.
Moneybarn says that although  Miss D had sent in further reports which confirmed faults, 
these did not show that the faults were  present  at the point of supply.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She recommended  that Miss D be allowed to reject 
the car or have a replacement.  She noted  that if the car was rejected, the car should be 
collected from Miss D at no cost and the agreement ended. She also noted that the deposit 
should be refunded along with the cost of the inspection  and payments made  from 
19 April 2018. Our investigator  also recommended that Miss D be paid £100  compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused.
Moneybarn did not accept our investigators view. It said that the issue  was raised just less 
than six months after Miss D acquired the car. It instructed an independent  engineer to 
inspect the car and that the report concluded  that on balance the issue was not present  at 
the point of supply. It said that no evidence had been provided to show  the findings were  
Ref: DRN59088342incorrect. It also noted that it offered to have a further inspection  carried out but this was not 
accepted.
Miss D said that she had paid £300  for insurance which she had cancelled and had been 
told she would not get a refund for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
My role is to decide each  case based  on its merits. I take relevant regulations  into 
consideration but my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given the 
individual circumstances  of each complaint.
Miss D acquired a used  car through a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn.  Under 
the regulations  Moneybarn  is liable  if the car was not of satisfactory quality or not fit for 
purpose at the point  of supply. Satisfactory quality  takes into account  the age and mileage of 
the car and also considers issues such as durability.
When Miss D acquired the car it had been  driven  around 59,500  miles. Miss D experienced 
an issue with the car losing power while on a motorway in April 2018  and then reported  a 
loud noise coming from the engine. Although Miss D had been driving the car for just under 
six months at this time she had driven  just under 2,000 miles.
An inspection report was arranged  by the dealer to assess  any issues  with the car. I have 
looked through this report and it confirms the presence of a loud noise and also that the car 
went into limp mode within  a short road test. Although no fault codes were found,  this clearly 
supports the presence of the issues Miss D raised.
There is differing evidence as to what  was the cause of the noise. The inspection report  
carried out for the dealer  says that the noise doesnt  have the characteristic whine expected  
from a turbocharger however it goes on to say that this cannot  be ruled out and further 
investigation was needed. Miss D arranged  for two investigations  to be carried out. The first 
identified a fault code and noted  the noise  as coming from the turbocharger and advised  
Miss D not to drive  the car. The second report found issues with the car and again  noted the 
need to replace the turbocharger.
Moneybarn offered for a further inspection  to take place. However given the time that has 
passed and the inspections that have already been  undertaken, I do not find that Miss D 
acted unreasonably by not accepting this. 
On balance, based on the inspection  reports,  it is clear that there is a fault with Miss Ds car 
and it appears more likely than not that this is linked to the turbocharger.
The outstanding issue is whether or not the issue was present or developing at the point of 
supply. I have also considered the issue of durability. 
Ref: DRN59088343The inspection report carried out for the dealer  said that given the time since acquisition  and 
that the noise  was not suggested  to be present at the point of sale it considered the car was 
fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply.
I have listened  to the call on which Miss D discusses the inspection report. I note the person 
(who Miss D addresses using the same name as noted on the inspection report)  says the 
report has been tampered with. But as I cannot say for certain  that this call is with the 
engineer that undertook the inspection I have not considered this point further.
I have considered that Miss D had driven  less than 2,000 miles before the issue  arose. So, 
while the noise  may not have been present  at the point of sale, it is possible that the issue  
was developing  at that time. I also find that given  the limited mileage Miss D has covered  
before a major  part failure, that the car was not sufficiently  durable  at the point of supply.
On balance, while I note the comments Moneybarn has made, I find it reasonable to accept 
that the car was not of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply. I note our investigator 
recommended either replacement or rejection. While I can understand why a replacement  
was suggested,  this can be difficult to deliver. Given the time that this issue has been 
ongoing I think it fair that Miss D is allowed to reject the car.
Miss D also raised concerns about  the service history of the car and how it was advertised.  
However, as I have found that she should  be able to reject  the car I have not considered 
these issues further.
As our investigator set out the car should be collected at no cost to Miss D and her 
agreement ended with nothing further  to pay. Any deposit paid would also be required to be 
refunded although no advance payment is noted  in the conditional sale agreement. Miss D 
has not had use of the car since 19 April 2018  and so I find it reasonable that any payments 
she has made since this date should be refunded along with any costs she has incurred in 
regard to car inspections.  I note a receipt for £130 has been provided for one inspection.
Miss D has also noted that she paid insurance  for the car for the period  she was not able to 
use it. As I uphold this complaint I find it reasonable that Miss D is refunded  any insurance 
payments from 19 April 2018. 
Our investigator also recommended that Miss D be paid compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience she has been caused. I can see that this issue has caused Miss D 
inconvenience. She has had the car investigated by two different companies and has 
explained that her commute  to work  has been  affected. Therefore I agree with the 
recommendation that she be paid £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN59088344my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should:
1.cancel the agreement with nothing further  for Miss D to pay;
2.collect the car at no cost to Miss D;
3.refund  Miss D the costs she incurred having  the car inspected (subject to invoices / 
receipts being provided);
4.refund  any payments  made since 19 April 2018;
5.refund  the costs  Miss D has incurred for the insurance of the car from 19 April 2018  
to the date of cancellation or settlement (subject to invoices being  provided);
6.pay Miss D £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has been 
caused; and 
7.remove any adverse information  relating to this agreement  from Miss Ds credit  file.
Items 3, 4 and 5 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
If Moneybarn  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Miss D how much  its taken off. It should also give Miss D a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5908834