K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is about the amount of compensation MBNA Limited offered following a 
complaint about  a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy she took out in 2004.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the commission and profit share MBNA got due to the 
PPI. I am unable to consider how the policy was sold as a colleague of mine has previously 
decided that complaint wasnt brought  in time.  Ive only looked at whether the commission 
offer MBNA has made is fair.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA),  issued 
some new rules about how businesses should  deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
MBNA said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair  
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mrs S paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mrs S for the time they were out of pocket.
Mrs S has said she should receive  all the commission and profit  share back. But MBNA has 
done what the rules  it must follow tell it to do.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mrs Ss particular  complaint  and 
circumstances that means MBNA should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling her about the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling MBNA to do anything more.
Ref: DRN56457162my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think MBNA  Limited  has correctly worked out what  it needs  to pay 
Mrs S.
MBNA Limited should update and pay its offer to Mrs S if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5645716