K821x#15complaint
Ms F complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund three  payments 
from her account through online banking that she didnt  make or authorise.
background
Ms F says that she thinks that an unknown third party hacked  into her bank account  and 
made three payments from it, totalling  £1,150.  She doesnt know  how this happened as she 
hasnt shared her security  details with anyone. She thinks that if Halifax  had additional 
security measures in place the money wouldnt have been taken or, at least  the amount 
taken would have  been limited. She says that this unknown person tried to do the same 
again the following month, but Halifaxs system stopped the payments. Shed like the money  
refunded as the loss is causing  her financial difficulties.
Halifax investigated but declined to refund the money. It said that the payments were  made  
through Miss Fs online  banking app and it couldnt  see any point  of compromise for her 
security details.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He couldnt see how an 
unknown third party could  have accessed  Ms Fs mobile phone,  logged  into her banking app, 
set up a new payee and made the disputed payments without Ms Fs knowledge.
Ms F didnt agree.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued my provisional decision on this complaint to Ms F 
and Halifax on 11 September 2020. I summarise my findings:
Halifax can hold Ms F liable for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests its more  
likely than not that she made or authorised them.
I was satisfied that the payments  were  authenticated.  Authentication is the use of a 
procedure by which a bank is able to verify the use of a specific  payment instrument,  
including its personalised security features.
The payments  were made using Ms Fs mobile banking app. But that on its own isnt 
enough for Halifax to hold Ms F liable.
The mobile banking  data evidence provided by Halifax appeared to show  that two 
different mobile  devices  with different IP addresses were  used to access the banking  app 
and often they appeared to be in use at the same time.
Whilst Halifax says that it isnt possible for two sessions to be active as only one is 
allowed, I found that on 29 January 2018  the regular (genuine) IP address was used to 
log into the app and the next action was by another IP address and phone  ID just 16 
seconds later. Two minutes  later Halifax systems detected  malware  when there was an 
attempt to increase  the overdraft limit. A minute  after that Ms F reset  her password  using  
the regular IP address.
Ref: DRN57863792Halifax said it couldnt find a point of compromise to Ms Fs security details, so it 
considered Ms F made or authorised the payments.  But Halifaxs  systems detected  
malware again on 9 February 2018  when another unsuccessful attempt was made  by the 
unknown device  to increase the overdraft limit.
I considered it possible for unknown  third party to remotely  watch and take over Ms Fs 
banking session without her knowing and so they could  have seen the password reset, 
particularly as malware was detected  at the time Ms F reset  her password.
On 28 February 2018 Ms Fs account  is accessed by both mobile devices. Ms F used 
finger biometric validation  when  she logged in to her account but within  10 minutes  of her 
doing this there was a forced  log off from her session and the other device was used to 
set up a new payee.
Although Ms F says that she didnt  receive  a text I see that Halifax  sent one to her 
genuine mobile phone number about making a payment of £0 to a new payee.  A few 
minutes later, from the second  device, three  payments totalling £1,150 were made to the 
new payee. Halifax didnt send any texts about these payments. 
Halifax accepts that there was malware  on Ms Fs device but hasnt  been  able to say 
what it was or if it took any action.
I thought it likely that the malware  was activated  on 29 January  2018  when Ms F tried to 
log in and this was when the security information could have been compromised. So, I 
think it was possible that the malware allowed an unknown  third party to remotely hijack  
Ms Fs banking sessions and then gather  the required  information to later make the 
transactions. As the third party  hadnt  been successful in increasing Ms Fs overdraft 
limit, they had to wait until she received  her next salary before being able to make  the 
payments
Subject to any further representations from Ms F or Halifax, my provisional decision was that 
there wasnt enough evidence to show that Ms F authorised the transactions  so I didnt 
consider that Halifax could hold her liable. I considered Halifax should  refund the three  
disputed transactions  and any related charges and pay simple interest at 8% on the amount 
refunded.
Halifax accepted  my provisional decision  and Ms F had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Ms F nor Halifax  has provided  any fresh information or evidence in response to 
my provisional decision, I find no basis to depart  from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, to:
refund  the three disputed transactions totalling  £1,150 and any related charges
Ref: DRN57863793add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  from the date of the transactions to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5786379