K821x#15complaint
Mr L is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd wont pay his home insurance claim for storm damage 
to his felt roof.
background
In September  2018 Mr L made  a claim to QIC after the felt roof over his integral garage  was 
partially ripped  off during  a storm. QIC sent out a surveyor to look at the damage.  He said 
the roof was nearing the end of its useful life and although there were high winds  the night 
before, these merely highlighted the poor condition of the roof. He said that a felt roof would 
normally only be guaranteed to last 10 to 15 years. QIC declined the claim as it said the 
damage was due to wear  and tear and wasnt consistent with storm damage.
Mr L produced his survey  report for when he bought the property in 2015. This said that the 
roof in question didnt  need repair. Mr L also instructed a firm of local builders who said the 
type of roof could be expected to last up to 25 years. They said the damage was definitely 
storm damage. He had an estimate from them of around £2,000. QIC maintained  its view 
that the damage wasnt due to storm but because of wear and tear to the roof.
On referral to this service  our investigator  observed  that the windspeed the night  before  
(maximum gust) was 77mph  hurricane force. He said it was most likely  that the storm 
caused the damage.
QIC disputed this, and the matter  has been  referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider storm damage we consider three  main  issues:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around  the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause  of the damage?
It is only if the answer to all three questions is yes that we can say that the damage was 
most likely caused by a storm.  I need  then to go on and consider whether the exclusion, for 
wear and tear/ gradual cause applies.
Were there storm conditions?
There has to be, for this cover to apply,  a one-off incident of storm. In the policy it says 
We will cover loss or damage  caused by storm winds of Force  10 or above  (as defined 
under the internationally  recognised Beaufort  Scale)
Here the peak gust reached the night before was 77mph, Force 12 on the scale  categorised  
as Hurricane
Ref: DRN59350722I dont think theres any doubt that there  was a storm at the time of the claim.
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage  a storm typically  causes?
The damage here is the ripping off of some  of the flat roof. I think  that is consistent  with the 
damage caused by strong winds. The issue to decide is whether the condition of the roof 
was the main cause  of the damage  or whether the wind caused it.
Were the storm conditions  the main cause of the damage?
The scale  referred  to in the policy  describes this sort of weather that happened here as 
causing devastation. Even if the peak  gust didnt last very long I think  it was well capable  of 
causing damage to a roof, even  a well maintained  one. Such  a strength of wind is extremely  
rare in the UK. 
The policy itself says A well-maintained  building should withstand all but the most severe 
weather conditions. I cant think of many more severe conditions  than hurricane force winds 
in the UK.
QICs surveyors report said, very briefly that: The garage felt roof covering will need to be 
replaced. The felt covering  was in poor condition prior to the incident . and that the damage 
is a result of a gradually operating cause.  Its in-house surveyor  went  on to say that felt roofs  
have a maximum life of 10 to 15 years. QIC's conclusion  was that the damage  was caused 
by the poor condition  of the roof, highlighted by the strong winds.
On the other hand Mr L has instructed builders who say that such a roof can last up to 25 
years. They  say the damage was definitely caused  by storm. I cant  really  place  much  
reliance on that - clearly  the immediate damage was caused  by storm but QIC is saying the 
main cause of the damage was the condition of the roof.
I dont know how old the roof is but Mr L had a home  survey  report carried  out when  he 
bought the home. three years before the storm. Whilst it didnt carry out a detailed survey  of 
the roof it identified  this as falling into a repair  category which  indicated  No immediate action 
or repair is needed. A roof could deteriorate within three years,  but its the only persuasive 
evidence of the condition of the roof before the storm.  
Ive also considered the photos which show torn pieces of felt but I cant  tell the pre-incident 
condition from those  photos.
I think QIC, and its surveyors have made the assumption that being a flat roof it was unlikely 
to have suffered  this sort of damage. And in weather  that normally  falls into the storm 
category I think this would  be a fair assumption. But in light of the devastating nature of the 
weather immediately prior to the incident  Im inclined to think that the roof might  have  had a 
few years of life left in it, but for the storm. So I think its most likely that the damage was 
caused by a storm.
Turning to the exclusion, I dont think that QIC has shown that this damage happened 
gradually or was due to wear and tear.
My conclusion is that QIC must cover the damage. It should settle the claim by paying Mr Ls 
cost for repairing the roof, in accordance  with his estimate, at todays price. 
Ref: DRN59350723my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require QIC Europe  Ltd to settle Mr Ls claim for storm damage 
by paying his cost for repairing the damage  in accordance with his estimate, at todays price.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5935072