K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a store  card.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of the policy  insurer.  I cant  consider 
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  was regulated  by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities,  or was otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction. 
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent and so Mrs Ks complaint was therefore  set 
up against this insurer. However the insurer has since  transferred its business to AXA, so it 
has taken responsibility  for the sale and this complaint.  To keep  things simple,  Ill only refer 
to AXA in this decision.
background
Briefly:
In 1997 Mrs K took out a store card. She didnt take out PPI at this time - she took it out a 
few months later during a phone call. The policy was designed to protect Mrs Ks card 
payments in the event she couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment. It 
cost £1.00 for every  £100  Mrs K owed on the card and the premiums  did attract interest.
The policy also provided purchase and price protection. But Mrs Ks not complained  about  
these things, so I wont  consider  them  here. But it does mean that I have assumed the full 
cost of the policy to the PPI element.
At the time of the sale Mrs K was employed and she said she was entitled to more than six 
months sick pay. She said she couldve relied on her parents for support and she said she 
was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought Mrs K likely chose to 
take out the policy and there  was nothing to indicate  it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because:
I think AXA likely made it clear  that Mrs K didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Ref: DRN53582822Mrs K didnt take out PPI at the same time as she took out the store card.  She took it out 
a few months later by telephone. AXA hasnt  got a call recording or a call script and 
given the time thats now passed  this isnt surprising.
So taking everything into account, including the fact that Mrs K took out PPI at a different 
time to the store card itself, I think its likely Mrs K chose to take out PPI and she did so 
without undue pressure.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K  Ive seen no evidence to persuade  me that it 
did - so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs K 
got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Given the passage  of time and limited evidence about an event that happened  more than 
20 years  ago, its possible the information AXA gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that she likely chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover. 
Overall this means AXA doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
Ive thought about everything Mrs K has said - including what she said in response  to the 
adjudicators view about not being asked if she wanted the policy. But these points dont 
change my decision. As I said above,  I think its likely Mrs K did agree to take the policy out. 
Im mindful too that the premiums wouldve appeared on her statements for many  years, so if 
Mrs K didnt know what they were I mightve  expected her to have queried it with AXA.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5358282