K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy that St Andrews Insurance Plc wont  deal with her home insurance claim 
for water damage and possible subsidence  damage  to her property. She is represented by 
Mr B.
background
In January 2017 Miss H reported a claim to St Andrews  following her discovery of cracking 
at her property. St Andrews sent out its subsidence experts who reported back  that there  
was no subsidence  at the property but did note damp problems  in the garage which  it said 
was likely due to the failure of the tanking.  It advised Miss H to have the cracks repaired 
which as far as Im aware she hasnt yet done so
Several of Miss Hs neighbours then made subsidence claims to their own insurers, their 
claims were  accepted and extensive repairs scheduled to be carried  out, including  piled raft 
foundations. This includes  her immediate neighbour. Miss H complained to St Andrews  
again particularly  of water  coming  into the footings of her garage.  It sent out a further agent 
to review the claim. They came back with the same conclusions  that there was no 
evidence of subsidence damage. The property was built into a hill  previously Miss H had 
had substantial repairs to prevent groundwater from coming into the property. These 
consisted of the building of a remedial wall made  of concrete blocks.  It was identified in other 
properties that these blocks were  failing due to the presence of sulphates  in the water and 
eroding the subsoil and foundations.
St Andrews  said it was likely that the tanking was failing in the same  way. But it pointed  out 
that there  was no insured peril that might cover  this  it wasnt subsidence. And it said the 
evidence showed  that the water didnt come  from any domestic appliances/fixed domestic 
water installation so the escape of water cover  didnt apply. It also said there wasnt a flood.
Miss H referred her claim to Mr B who argued  that, according to this services  guidance this 
was likely to be a flood.  He further said that the water could have come from any domestic  
appliance/installation not necessarily belonging to Miss H, so St Andrews should  have 
investigated this further. Finally,  he pointed out that the damage  was likely to be subsidence 
damage based on the conclusions of the contractor  working on the other properties. He said 
that St Andrews should investigate this in line with our guidance.
On referral to this service  our investigator  didnt  think that Miss H had shown she has a 
potential claim, so she felt that St Andrews had acted reasonably.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss H believes she has a claim  it seems  that most  of her 
neighbours have made claims and had them accepted by their insurers. Unfortunately,  I 
cant say that that should automatically lead to Miss Hs claim being considered. We dont 
know what their policies  say or what terms of the policies their claim were made under. Its 
Ref: DRN58436312also possible  that the other properties were affected  in different ways. I shall therefore 
review the possible  perils in the policy  under  which any damage may be covered.
escape of water
The cover here is for:
Escape  of water from any domestic appliance  or any fixed  domestic water  installation.
Its been established that the water doesnt appear  to have come from any domestic 
appliance or water installation belonging to Miss H. Mr B has told us that extensive 
investigations have  been made in respect  of the other properties with no conclusive result.  
He said it appears likely to have come from a combination of water  runoff  from surface water 
drains, local disused mineworkings and a disused reservoir. I cant see that any further  
investigations would be of any use here.
Whilst I appreciate that the policy term doesnt specify that the water must come  from the 
policyholders own home  it doesnt appear  likely to me that the neighbours appliances or 
fixed water  installations are involved. This is especially bearing in mind that several  
properties were affected.
Its for the policyholder to show they have a likely claim   Im not persuaded that Miss H has 
shown this. So I dont  think its for St Andrews to show  the claim doesnt come  from an 
escape of water (as defined above). The policy does have  trace and access cover  but this 
only applies  in the case of damage caused by an escape of water,  which hasnt been shown 
here.
subsidence
Again, I appreciate  that other properties  appear  to have suffered from subsidence. But there 
doesnt seem to be any evidence of subsidence  damage occurring at Miss Hs home. The 
crack damage here is of a vertical  crack  in the rendering between the first and ground floor 
windows, And a crack in the artex of the ceiling in one of the rooms.  These  are not in the 
vicinity of the back of the garage where the water was apparently coming in. St Andrews 
has had this looked at by its subsidence  experts  and reviewed by its external claims 
handling team. The report specifically says that there is no evidence of subsidence damage 
to the home. It says that the likely  cause  of the water coming in is a failure  in the block  
tanking system.
Mr B has pointed  out that where the loss or damage  may have been caused by subsidence 
our guidance  says that we would normally expect the insurer  to carry out a thorough  
investigation as part of investigating the claim.
Here any damage is likely to be to the blockwork which  St Andrews says would be caused  
by the ground  water  coming from the possible areas  Ive mentioned above. As there isnt, in 
St Andrews  view any likely subsidence  damage then its not required to carry out any further 
investigations. And I note that Mr B has said its debatable whether the current damage  
constitutes subsidence. He points to the erosion of the foundations in the other properties 
and says its reasonable to conclude that any such erosion under Miss Hs property will in 
the future  cause major damage.
Ref: DRN58436313However, an insurer will cover a claim for subsidence damage  which  there doesnt appear 
to be any yet. If there is any erosion of the soil causing the property to subside, I havent 
seen evidence of it either.  Its not obliged to carry out preventative  work in the hope  of 
stopping any future  damage which might  have the potential to occur. If Miss H wants  to 
obtain her own report  on possible subsidence damage she can do so and present it to St 
Andrews.
flooding
Mr B argues  that the claim  should  be accepted as flood. I should first of all point  out that the 
only accepted  possible damage to the property is to the blockwork   accepting a claim under 
this term wouldnt lead to the property receiving  remedial repairs for subsidence damage.
Mr B has pointed  out our guidance (based on a court of appeal  decision) is that a flood can 
arise from a an accumulation of water that was not large, in absolute  terms.
And that a flood  can arise from a slow and steady build-up of water.
Here the inspection by St Andrews revealed no damage except damp.  The report  says that 
Miss H had previously had a problem  with water entering the garage  and had had new 
drainage and the concrete  block wall installed which appeared to deal with the problem. The 
report of the blocks  crumbling relates to Miss Hs neighbours properties. It advised that 
water was ingressing from the soil and weeping through  the brickwork.
The key issue with any flood is that there must  be a build-up of water. I dont think thats 
been shown here. Certainly the description  of the water coming in and the photos Ive seen 
these dont shows a build-up of water  within Miss Hs property. 
accidental damage
This point  hasnt been looked at by St Andrews. The definition in Miss Hs policy is: An 
accident that causes physical damage,  which  is caused suddenly by an outside  force  and is 
not expected and not deliberate.
Here the water has been coming in for a period of years so the damage (if there  is any) 
hasnt been caused suddenly. So this policy  term doesnt apply  either.
overall
I can understand why Miss H feels her claim should  be treated in the same  way as her 
neighbours claims. But on the facts of her case there hasnt been shown to be any 
subsidence damage nor do the escape of water or flood  or accidental damage sections of 
the policy apply.  And I should remind Miss H that even if escape of water or flood did apply 
there has been no subsidence damage shown. I appreciate  that such  damage could happen 
in the future but St Andrews is only required under  the terms of the policy to cover claims for 
actual damage.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN58436314Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5843631