K822xcomplaint
Mr M and Mrs C complain  that the car they bought  through  Oodle Financial Services Limited  
in 2017 was of unsatisfactory quality  and unfit for purpose. They want to reject  the car and 
end the finance agreement.
Although both Mr M and Mrs C signed  the agreement, its Mr M whos been in touch with us 
to complain and I understand hes the main,  if not the only, driver of the car. Ill therefore 
refer to Mr M throughout this decision.
background 
In May 2017  Mr M and Mrs C got a car through a hire-purchase agreement  with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited.
Mr Ms told us a two year warranty was included  in the finance agreement, which  should  
have covered any problems with the car for two years  after purchase. Oodle  says there was 
only ever a 28 day warranty in place.
At the time of supply  the car was around five years old with a mileage of 94,450 miles. When  
Mr M took possession of the car, he complained that it hadnt come with a full 12 month 
MOT. He also raised some other issues, including a broken engine mounting, a broken seat 
and a worn out tyre. A new MOT  was carried out in June 2017 and work was undertaken to 
rectify the issues Mr M first identified.
Three months after getting the car, in August 2017,  Mr M reported that the service light came 
on and the engine made an unusual  sound.  He contacted  a breakdown  recovery  company 
who rescued the car and advised  that there appeared to be a problem with the engine.  Mr M 
contacted the dealership hed got the car from, who collected it and advised that the problem 
seemed to be fuel contamination  that is, they thought Mr M had put petrol in the car 
instead of diesel (misfuelling).  Mr M disputed this and contacted Oodle who agreed  to 
arrange an independent inspection.
That inspection, carried out by a company Ill call A, was performed some five months  after 
the breakdown  and eight  months after Mr M first got the car. It was noted that the odometer  
read 100,655 miles, suggesting Mr M had driven  over 6,000 miles in the three months or so 
hed had use of the car.
In its report, A said the car wouldnt  start. But it couldnt say why. It noted  the allegation of 
misfuelling, but didnt comment on this beyond saying that there was no smell  of petrol 
around the filler cap. It recommended  further inspection to identify the problem. Oodle 
arranged for a second inspection, by a company Ill call B, carried  out a month after the first. 
B thought that there had been  misfuelling and recommended  that the fuel tank be replaced.
Mr M didnt  accept Bs findings.  He pointed out that he hadnt  put any fuel in the car on the 
day it broke down and that As report had been  inconclusive. Failing to reach agreement with 
Oodle, he referred his complaint to us.
Ref: DRN56623392An investigator looked at the complaint and felt it still wasnt  clear what the problem  was. 
They recommended  a third inspection be completed by a garage specialising in this make of 
car. Oodle  agreed  to this. That inspection found there to be a battery fault and some  
electrical errors which the garage felt to be due to wear and tear. Although  under the terms 
of the agreement wear  and tear issues would  be Mr Ms responsibility, Oodle agreed to 
cover the repair  costs as a goodwill  gesture.
The investigator also recommended that Oodle refund the payments Mr M and Mrs C had 
made under the agreement since August 2017, when Mr M was first unable  to use the car. 
Oodle didnt agree to this.
The car has now been repaired and is being stored  by Oodle. Mr M has previously been 
asked to collect it but refuses to do so, as he wants to be able to reject the car and end the 
finance agreement.
Ultimately, the investigator  explained that he wouldnt  recommend ending  the agreement.  
Although there has been some trouble identifying the source  of the cars  failure,  he felt it has 
now been established that the issues were due to wear and tear, which  is to be expected in 
a five year old car thats travelled over 100,000  miles. He did recommend Oodle pay £100  in 
respect of the delays  and confusion it had caused, which Oodle agreed to.
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators recommendation. So the complaint  was referred to me 
for a final decision.  I issued a provisional decision on 18 February 2019, explaining why 
I thought £100 compensation was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Oodle accepted my provisional decision, but Mr M disagreed. He made various  points in 
response.
Ive set out my findings again below,  taking Mr Ms further points into account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Id like to say firstly that I appreciate  this 
has been a difficult  and frustrating time for Mr M and Mrs C. They  have now been without the 
use of their car for over a year, which has been a great inconvenience  for them.  My role is to 
determine how much  of this, if any, is down to Oodle. If I find Oodle should have done 
something differently,  I then need  to consider how that should be put right.
Oodle supplied the car to Mr M and Mrs C through a hire purchase agreement. Under  the 
relevant legislation it needs to ensure the car it supplies is of satisfactory  quality. This means 
what a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account the description of 
the car, the price and all the other relevant circumstances; such  as the age and mileage.
In order for me to agree  that Mr M should be able to reject the car and the finance 
agreement brought  to an end, Id need to be satisfied that the faults that occurred with this 
car were present or developing  at the time of supply and that this meant the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  or unfit for purpose. Although I know this will be a disappointment to 
Mr M, while Ive noted his further  points, I still dont think I can fairly  say that here.
Ref: DRN56623393Ive noted that repair  work  was done  on the car when Mr M first took possession of it, and an 
MOT was carried out. In his response to my provisional decision, Mr M referred to repairs 
that havent been done. But I havent  seen  anything from the time to make me think the 
problems Mr M reported when he first got the car continued to be a concern  after that initial  
repair work was done. So I think the repair work  was enough to resolve the quality issues  Mr 
M first reported.
Mr M also said the car came  without an MOT. Having checked the MOT  history,  I can see 
that it was tested and passed in October 2016   and this MOT would still have  been  valid 
when Mr M took possession of the car. Nonetheless,  another  MOT was carried out in June 
2017. Again  the test was passed. 
Following the cars breakdown in August 2017, Mr M disagreed  with the initial diagnosis of 
misfuelling. He has further iterated this point in his response to my provisional decision, 
where he says misfuelling has never been shown. I agree. It doesnt appear that the issue  
was fuel contamination  and theres  nothing to suggest Mr M ever put the wrong  fuel into the 
car. So I dont think he was responsible for the car breaking down.
But to say Mr M wasnt responsible for the breakdown  is not the same as saying  the car was 
not of satisfactory  quality  when it was sold. In the opinion of the specialist garage that finally  
repaired the car, the faults  an issue with the fuel pressure sensor and with the battery  
were due to normal wear and tear.
I appreciate Mr M had only owned  the car three  months, which must feel like a short  amount 
of time for things to go wrong. But the odometer  suggests Mr M had travelled over 6,000 
miles in the car in this period. Mr M has denied this and says the dealership  must  have  
tampered with the odometer  when the car was first returned.
I havent seen  any evidence on this point. And Mr M hasnt suggested what  he thinks the 
mileage should  have been,  or how much distance  he thinks  he covered during the time he 
had use of the car. So I cant  safely agree  the dealership changed  the odometer. I think  its 
most likely, given all the information  I have, the mileage readings were accurate. So I dont 
think its surprising that wear and tear issues may have  come up during the time Mr M held 
the car, especially as the car had driven over 100,000 miles in total when it failed.
Having thought about this and what the specialist  garage has said, Im not persuaded that 
these faults were present or developing at point of sale,  or that they mean the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr M talks about  the two year warranty which  he 
feels should have  covered  all the problems. He says this warranty was offered with the car 
but hasnt been honoured.
I dont know how the car was advertised, or whether a two year warranty  was included in the 
sale details. Oodle has said any additional  warranty would have been through  the dealership 
 and it has no records of a two year warranty being put in place. The dealership  no longer 
appears to be operating  and I havent found any evidence of how the car was advertised or 
whether an additional warranty was offered. I have  looked at the loan agreement  and the 
invoice for the car. Neither  document mentions a two year warranty.  So on balance, I dont 
think Ive seen enough to say that a two year warranty should have been included with the 
car, or that it would have covered the problems complained of.
Ref: DRN56623394Mr M has pointed  out that the dealership agreed  to collect  the car for repairs when it first 
broke down.  And he asks why it would have done  that if no warranty had been  in place. 
As Ive explained, the dealership no longer  appears  to be operating so I havent  been able to 
ask that question. But there could be a number of reasons the dealership  would have agreed 
to look at the car, especially  as it was less than three months since  the initial  sale. I dont 
think the dealerships decision to collect the car automatically means there  must  have  been  
a longer warranty included with the car.
Mr M has been without his car for some  time.  I do appreciate  the trouble and stress this 
caused him and his family. I can see that the long timescale was in part due to the numerous  
inspections required  and it seems there was some delay in arranging the inspections. I do 
think Oodle could have  done more to resolve the problems  quickly. But Ive noted that 
Oodles paid for the worn parts to be replaced,  although it had no responsibility to do so. 
I think this, combined with the £100  compensation already offered, is a fair settlement for the 
trouble Mr Ms been put to.
Mr M has asked  why my decision is different to that of the investigators  (which also changed 
during the course of the investigation). I appreciate  this has been a frustrating time for Mr M. 
But this has been  a fairly complex case,  with numerous inspections  over a period  of time. 
I dont think its unreasonable that the investigators  opinion changed as more  information 
came to light. And I hope Ive explained  how Ive reached my findings  in this decision.
The car is now with Oodle, having been collected  from the specialist garage.  It is for Mr M to 
arrange collection of the car, including getting  a new MOT if necessary. Oodle has confirmed 
it didnt incur any storage  costs from the garage. Although it did have to pay transport costs, 
its not looking to reclaim  these from Mr M.
Mr M has a right under the finance  agreement to terminate it early.  Should he wish to do this 
hell need to speak to Oodle. Id expect Oodle to be sympathetic  in arranging any repayment 
plan for Mr M to terminate  the agreement.
my final decision
Oodle Financial Services Limited has repaired the car and agreed  to pay Mr M £100 
compensation. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that 
Oodle Financial Services Limited should  pay Mr M and Mrs C £100, if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.  
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5662339