K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Wealth UK (Financial) Ltd discussed his income protection policies with 
his employer without  his permission.
background
Mr B has three income protection policies that were  arranged  by Wealth UK. Initially  the 
policy holder was his employer  and he was a beneficiary. However,  in May 2017 he took 
over responsibility for servicing the policies, with help from Wealth  UK.
In November 2018, Wealth UK discussed  Mr Bs policies with his employer without his 
consent. He is particularly upset as, after speaking  to his employer, Wealth UK had 
conversations with at least two of his insurers. This resulted in him receiving a letter  from an 
insurer which suggested his employment  was about to be terminated. Mr B believes that 
after Wealth  UK contacted his insurers  they gave additional information to his employer but 
Wealth UK disputes this. 
Wealth UK doesnt record their calls so its not been  possible to get copies of the calls 
between Wealth UK and Mr Bs employer.  However,  it has been possible to get an extract of 
a call between Wealth UK and one of Mr Bs insurers. Mr B says he was very upset by what 
happened. 
Mr B has raised a dispute with his employer but that isnt something our service has the 
power to look into. 
Our investigator concluded Wealth UK caused Mr B upset by talking to his employer when 
they shouldnt  have. He also said Wealth UK asked Mr Bs insurers  questions  on his 
employers behalf  and their actions led to him receiving an upsetting  letter from one of his 
insurers. The investigator didnt make any findings  about whether additional  information  was 
subsequently shared  with Mr Bs employer. To resolve the complaint, he recommended  that 
Wealth UK should pay Mr B £200  compensation to say sorry for the upset they caused him.
Mr B disagreed with the opinion as he didnt  think the compensation was sufficient. He said 
Wealth UK caused him considerable upset and he believes the information they shared 
impacted on his dispute with his employer.
Wealth UK also disagreed. They didnt dispute  the fact they spoke to Mr Bs employer but 
they said they only provided generic  information which his employer already had access  to. 
They also said that although they contacted two of Mr Bs insurers,  the questions  they asked 
were for Mr Bs benefit and not his employers. They also highlighted  the fact theyd  already  
apologised to Mr B for their actions twice.
So I need to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN52651672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service cannot make a finding  about whether there has been  a breach of data protection  
legislation. Thats something that the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  will need to 
decide. Our role is to consider  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case  
 taking into account any relevant law and guidance  - and to decide whether a business  
acted fairly  and reasonably. We are also an informal dispute  resolution service.
However, our service can consider data protection issues which  are sufficiently linked  to the 
provision of a financial  service. Im satisfied  I can consider the data protection issue in this 
case because the concerns  Mr B has raised relate to policies set up by Wealth UK for Mr B, 
which is a regulated activity that our service can consider complaints about. And I think  the 
circumstances which gave rise to this issue  were  part of or ancillary to this activity as Wealth  
UK was checking the level of benefit  available to Mr B under these policies. 
I understand that Mr B has made a complaint to the ICO but Ive not seen any evidence  of 
their findings. However, I dont think it will make a difference  to the outcome of this complaint 
as I would not be bound by a decision made  by the ICO and I can take into the account the 
relevant law when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
is it more likely than not that Mr Bs personal information held by Wealth UK has been 
disclosed when it shouldnt have  been?
There is no dispute Wealth UK discussed  Mr Bs policies with his employer without his 
permission in general terms. Its also accepted that after speaking to his employer, Wealth 
UK contacted at least two of his insurers to check whether the information discussed  with the 
employer was correct.  
Ive listened to a brief conversation between  Wealth UKs adviser and one of Mr Bs insurers.  
Part of this conversation,  but not all of it, was recorded by the insurer who has provided a 
copy of the call. Only part of the call was recorded because there was a transfer  from one 
department to another mid-way through the call. 
During the recorded section of the conversation  the insurer is told by Wealth  UK: 
The company is just asking if they terminated  his employment would he still get his 
income protection
The call is then transferred to a different department and the recording for that part of the call 
isnt available. In light of the above, Im satisfied  Wealth UKs adviser asked Mr Bs insurers  
questions on his employers behalf  and talked about  the policies Mr B held. Wealth  UK 
explained, in summary,  that in these calls they were checking the information theyd given to 
Mr Bs employer  was right. 
Ref: DRN52651673I entirely accept that Wealth UK acted with the very best intentions, and in the spirit of being 
helpful to Mr B. But I think the general  conversation about the policies Mr B held had the 
effect of confirming whether or not they were the same policies hed previously had via his 
employer. So I think Mr Bs personal information  about which  policies he held and the benefit 
levels were disclosed when they shouldnt have been. 
Wealth UK has said Mr Bs employer was already aware of the cover provided by the 
policies and they only provided  with generic  information when the employer called.  I note this 
comment but the full details  of Wealth UKs  conversations with his employer arent  known. 
In any event, Wealth UK shouldnt have had any conversations  with Mr Bs employer at all 
because they were no longer the policyholder, Mr B was. And, if Wealth  UK Limited, were 
making enquiries about the impact of Mr Bs circumstances  on the policy  I think they ought  to 
have discussed  this with him first, to check. Had they done  so Mr B would have  had the 
opportunity to explain he didnt want this information  to be discussed,  even in general terms, 
because he was involved in a dispute  with his employer. 
There is a dispute  about whether Wealth UK provided Mr Bs employer with additional 
information after speaking  to his insurers. I think Wealth UK has provided credible testimony 
on this point as the representative has explained that she wanted to check whether the initial 
guidance shed  given to the employer was correct. And Ive not seen any compelling 
evidence that she went back  to Mr Bs employer and discussed matters further. However, 
this doesnt make a difference to my overall  findings for the reasons Ill go on to explain.  
has Mr B suffered trouble and upset?
I am satisfied that the disclosure of this information  has caused Mr B to worry. This is 
especially because he is currently in dispute with his employer.
There is also evidence that Wealth UKs  actions had an upsetting impact.  This is because 
following their conversation with one of his insurers Mr B was sent a letter  saying:
Your financial advisor contacted us recently to confirm that your employers are 
looking to possibly terminate your contract. We have advised  your financial advisor 
that if this is the case and you are in receipt of any owed holiday pay or payment in 
lieu please let us know as this may affect  your policy benefit.
This letter caused Mr B considerable upset  as he didnt understand why his insurer  was 
telling him his employment might be terminated. He was also confused as to why Wealth UK 
had been discussing  his policy with either his employer or his insurer. This letter  came  at an 
already difficult time for Mr B as he was in dispute  with his employer and relying on his 
policies due to being unwell.
was Mr Bs trouble and upset caused  as a result of Wealth UK disclosing his personal 
information?
Had Wealth UK not discussed the policies with the employer its unlikely they would  have 
contacted the insurers  for more information.  As a result  of the contact with the insurer the 
letter Ive referred  to above  was sent out. 
Ref: DRN52651674Wealth UK has apologised to Mr B for their actions  but I do think  a compensation payment is 
appropriate. This is because Wealth UK caused  Mr B additional worry, anxiety and distress 
at an already difficult time. 
Mr B believes the £200 compensation recommended  by our investigator should  be 
substantially increased  as he doesnt believe it reflects  the seriousness of the complaint.  Id 
like to reassure Mr B that this matter  has been  taken very seriously  and his strength  of 
feeling is understandable.  But I do think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable amount 
to reflect  the impact Wealth UKs actions had on him. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Wealth UK (Financial) Ltd to pay Mr B £200  
compensation for the worry and upset  they caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5265167