K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Uncle Buck  gave Mr D 12 loans between September 2014 and March 2018.  Mr D wasnt 
always able to repay his loans  when  originally agreed, so he rolled over some of the earlier 
loans. 
When Mr D first complained to Uncle Buck it offered to refund the interest that Mr D had paid 
on loan four. Mr D didnt accept that offer so brought his complaint to this Service.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ds complaint be upheld in part. She thought  that it 
was reasonable  of Uncle Buck to agree loans one to four. The adjudicator thought that Uncle 
Buck shouldnt have  agreed loans five to 12. 
The adjudicator asked Uncle Buck to refund interest  and charges and remove  loans five to 
12 from Mr Ds credit file. 
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation entirely but it has offered 
to refund interest  and charges on loan nine as well as loan four.
Uncle Buck  says that Mr D said he lived at home  so didnt have to pay much  in the way of 
living costs  from his annual salary of £30,000.
Uncle Buck  says that there were  gaps in Mr Ds borrowing for loans five to 12 so it doesnt 
think there was evidence of a reliance on short term lending. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that  
Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN58038152the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) defines sustainable  as being without undue difficulties. In particular  
the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it follows  
that a lender should realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower is 
unlikely to be able to make their make their repayments in a sustainable manner if they have 
a history of rolling loans  over.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it was reasonable of Uncle Buck  to agree loans one to four 
based on what it knew about Mr D and the information that he gave about his finances.  It 
follows that I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint  about  loans one to four.
loans five to 12
By the time of loan five, Mr D had taken out five loans in approximately  nine months.
Although there was a gap of a few months  between repaying loan four and taking out loan 
five, Uncle  Buck could  see a history of repeated borrowing. 
Mr D had struggled to repay  loans  one, two and four on time so he had extended them  by 
paying additional interest. Mr D had also been taking on new loans almost immediately after 
repaying loans  one to three. 
I think by now that Uncle  Buck  shouldve seen that Mr D was struggling with his finances. 
And that it was unlikely  that Mr D was able to repay  the loans from his normal  income.  I 
think that despite some breaks in lending, Uncle Buck  shouldve  seen that Mr Ds 
indebtedness was increasing in an unstainable way. I think  that Uncle  Buck shouldve 
reasonably seen that further lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
I think that Mr D lost out because Uncle Buck continued lend to him from loan five onwards.
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
Ref: DRN58038153the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ds ability  to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint about  loan five onwards.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to lend to Mr D after, and including, the loan 
that he took on 29 June 2015 (loan five) So Uncle Buck should;
Refund all interest  and charges Mr D paid on loans five to 12;
 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  on loan 12;
If it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan 12 before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Mr D; and
Remove all entries about loans  five to 12 from Mr Ds credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
Uncle Buck  intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding  balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ds complaint and direct Uncle Buck  Finance  LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5803815