K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
Mr Ps complaint is brought to this service on his behalf by a claims management company. 
But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr P. 
background
This complaint is about 19 short term loans Sunny provided to Mr P between 
March 2015 and August 2017. Loans 1 to 17 have  been  repaid. All the loans  were  repayable  
by six monthly instalments. Mr Ps lending history  is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
repayment amount  
1. 28/3/15 25/8/15 £200 Around £65
2. 7/4/15 25/9/15 £100 Around £30
3. 16/4/15 25/9/15 £100 Around £28
4. 30/8/15 25/1/16 £800 Around £258
5. 2/10/15 25/1/16 £100 Around £31
6. 19/11/16 25/2/16 £250 Around £83
7. 7/4/16 23/9/16 £500 Around £153
8. 11/4/16 23/9/16 £150 Around £44
9. 15/4/16 23/9/16 £300 Around £87
10. 23/9/16 15/10/16 £300 Around £100
11. 4/10/16 22/11/16 £150 Around £47
12. 7/10/16 22/11/16 £100 Around £31
13. 12/12/16 30/12/16 £50 Around £15
14. 19/12/16 15/5/17 £300 Around £100
15. 21/12/16 9/5/17 £200 Around £67
16. 27/1/17 25/7/17 £200 Around £65
17. 17/6/17 18/5/18 £200 Around £67
18. 18/6/17 Unpaid £200 Around £67
19. 8/8/17 Unpaid £200 Around £67
In its final response letter,  Sunny said that at certain points its product may not have been 
suitable for Mr Ps needs. It offered to refund the interest and charges paid on 
Loans 1 to 3 and pay simple interest of 8% on the refunds. It said that as these loans had 
been repaid on time, there was no adverse data to remove  from Mr Ps credit  file about the 
loans.
Mr P rejected Sunnys offer.
our adjudicators findings
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld in part. As Sunny had 
offered to settle  Loans 1 to 3 in its final response  letter, the adjudicator didnt  consider  these  
loans. But he concluded that Loans 6 onwards shouldnt have been given to Mr P.
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators recommendations.  It said that it had conducted 
affordability and creditworthiness checks for each loan application. Whilst it could see Mr P 
had taken a number of loans with it, it said that his declared income compared to his monthly 
Ref: DRN59211232repayment as a percentage of monthly income suggested  they were  suitable. So it didnt 
accept the loans provided were unaffordable or that they demonstrated an over reliance on 
its product. Sunny  noted that Mr Ps declared income was £1,500 and that Mr P required an 
average of 4.1% of his monthly  income  to make  his repayments. It said there was no 
evidence of detriment  to Mr P. Sunny also said that the loan amounts fluctuated. It 
concluded by saying it would rescind  its offer in its final response letter and instead offered 
to write off Mr Ps outstanding balance. It would also update  Mr Ps credit file in respect of 
any loans in arrears  to show these as settled. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to Sunny on 19 September 2019. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when  Sunny lent to Mr P the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that Sunny was required to establish whether  Mr P could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
Ref: DRN59211233And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ps complaint.
I noted that Sunny had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr P. It had asked him for 
details of his monthly  income and expenditure. Mr Ps declared income for Loans 1 to 6 was 
£1,500. This increased to £1,900 for Loans  7 to 12 and for his other loans it was £2,000.  
Sunny had also checked Mr Ps credit file before agreeing to the loans. It had provided us 
with a summary of the results of its credit checks including Mr Ps other  credit  commitments.  
It appeared from the summaries Id seen that there wasnt any adverse information such  as 
bankruptcy, IVAs  or debt management plans that I thought should have caused additional 
concerns to Sunny. 
I couldnt see that wed received a credit report from Mr P, so I couldnt  say there were 
entries on his file that shouldve concerned Sunny.
Mr P needed  to make total monthly  loan repayments of around £65 to £125 to Sunny for 
Loans 1 to 3. I thought these were  relatively modest  compared to Mr Ps declared income. 
Given Mr Ps repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the time, 
and his history with the lender, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate  for Sunny to have 
asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loans 1 to 3 
were unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr P provided before Loans 1 to 3 or the 
information Sunny shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think Sunny was wrong  to give Loans 1 to 3 to 
Mr P. 
Mr P took out Loan 4 whilst he was still repaying Loans 2 and 3. This meant that hed have  
been repaying total monthly loan repayments of around £317 for around a month  and 
around £258 per month thereafter. I didnt think at that stage of its relationship with Mr P that 
Sunny had any reason to doubt the information hed provided, and I didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Sunny to rely on Mr Ps declared disposable income  of £1,500.  But the 
monthly loan repayments were a significant proportion of Mr Ps disposable income. So I 
thought Sunny should have supplemented the information it held by asking Mr P some more  
detailed questions, such as whether he was borrowing from other short  term lenders at the 
same time.
Id said that I would normally have looked at the borrowers bank statements to see what  
proportionate checks would likely have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Ps bank 
statements for the month before  Loan 4. Id noted that the adjudicator had asked Mr P for his 
bank statements in October 2018  so hed had ample time to provide these. I couldnt say 
that if Sunny had completed sufficient checks,  it would have found  that Mr P couldnt afford 
to repay  Loan  4 sustainably. So I couldnt say that Sunny was wrong to give Loan 4 to Mr P.
Loan 5 was Mr Ps fifth loan in around  six months  and there hadnt been any break in his 
borrowing. I thought  Sunny  should have been concerned that Mr P might  have been  reliant  
Ref: DRN59211234on its lending. And I didnt think it was reasonable for Sunny to base its assessment before 
Loan 5 on the information provided by Mr P without taking steps to independently check 
what hed declared.  So I thought it might  have been  proportionate  at this time for Sunny to 
have independently reviewed the true state  of Mr Ps finances. This was to make sure Mr P 
was in position to make the repayments  sustainably. As far as I could see Sunny didnt do 
this. So I needed  to think about what Sunny wouldve  seen if it had carried out proportionate  
checks. 
Again I would have  normally  looked  at the borrowers  bank statements to see what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Ps bank 
statements for the month before  Loan 5. So I couldnt say that if Sunny had completed 
sufficient checks, it would have found  that Mr P couldnt afford to repay  Loan 5 sustainably. 
So I couldnt  say that Sunny was wrong to give Loan 5 to Mr P.
Id looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending with Mr P to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, Id thought that this point had been 
reached by Loan  6. I said this because:
By Loan  6, Mr P had been borrowing from Sunny for almost eight months.
Mr P had been borrowing from Sunny without a break for that period.
From  Loan 2, Mr P was repaying at least one other loan to Sunny when he borrowed 
another from it.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amounts he owed Sunny. Loan 6 was for 
a higher amount than Loan  1. And Mr P had paid large  amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Sunny  over an extended  period.
I could see that as Sunny didnt stop lending at this point, Mr P went  on to take out another 
13 loans in the following 21 months. I thought that Mr P lost out because Sunny  continued to 
provide borrowing from Loan 6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Ps ability to 
access mainstream credit and so had kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
The fact that most  of the loans were  repaid didnt mean that they were  repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr P undue difficulty.  
Id taken into account the main points raised  by Sunny in its response  to the adjudicators  
view. 
Id noted that it said that the loan amounts  had fluctuated. I acknowledged that the individual 
loan amounts Mr P borrowed had fluctuated.  But the total amount being  borrowed at any one 
time was usually far higher  than the individual loan amount as Mr P was on most occasions 
borrowing more than one loan at a time from Sunny. And even though  the amounts Mr P 
borrowed had varied, I thought  Sunny  had acted unfairly by allowing Mr P to take expensive  
credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN59211235Id noted that Sunny  had said that Mr P was paying an average of 4.1% of his monthly  
income to repay the loans. But I thought the percentage  of Mr Ps monthly income used to 
repay the loans  was far higher than this as Mr P usually had at least two and sometimes 
three loan repayments  to make to Sunny.
Id noted that Sunny  said that Mr Ps declared  income compared  to his monthly repayment 
as a percentage of monthly income  had suggested the loans were suitable. And it didnt 
accept the loans provided were unaffordable or that they had demonstrated an over reliance  
on its product. But I thought Sunny  would  (or ought to) have known from previous decisions 
(as well as what was set out on our website)  that there were cases  where  this service 
considered the overall lending pattern and not just the affordability  of each loan. And there 
would be times when the pattern of lending alone  was enough to have indicated that a 
consumer was likely to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should 
relending continue. 
And when  a consumer  borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most 
likely that the loans werent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As Sunny  knew,  the FCA made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable  
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Mr P or Sunny my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Sunny to put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on Loans 6 to 17 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
With regard to Loans 18 and 19, refund all the interest and charges that Mr P has 
paid on Loans  18 and 19, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loans 18 and 19;
Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loans  18 
and 19 and pay any balance to Mr P; 
Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 17 from Mr Ps credit file. Sunny should remove 
all entries about  Loans  18 and 19 from Mr Ps credit  file once theyve been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends  to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after deducting  
the tax.
Mr P responded to my provisional decision to say he had nothing  further to add.
Sunny hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN59211236complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that both Mr P and Sunny have given  me nothing further to consider, I see no reason  
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  It follows  that I uphold 
part of the complaint and require Sunny to pay Mr P some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on Loans 6 to 17 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2.With regard to Loans 18 and 19, refund all the interest and charges that Mr P has 
paid on Loans  18 and 19, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loans 18 and 19;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loans  
18 and 19 and pay any balance  to Mr P; and
5.Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 17 from Mr Ps credit file. Sunny should 
remove all entries  about Loans 18 and 19 from Mr Ps credit file once theyve 
been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends  to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after deducting  
the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
  
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5921123