K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining that Zenith Insurance Plc (Zenith) settled a claim another driver made 
on his car insurance  policy. 
background
In April 2016 Mr Ms son  a named driver on his insurance policy   was involved in an 
accident with another  driver. Liability is in dispute. Mr M says his son had pulled out of a 
parking space and had established himself on the road when the other driver looked  to 
overtake his son and collided with the front of his car. Mr M says that the other  driver  was 
speeding at the time of the accident.  The other driver says that Mr Ms son pulled out into the 
path of his correct proceeding vehicle. Mr M has provided statements from two witnesses 
who he says witnessed the accident  and held the other driver responsible.
Mr M only had third party, fire and theft cover on his insurance policy. So he wasnt able to 
claim for the damage to his car on his policy. The other driver instructed solicitors to pursue 
the claim on his behalf against Mr M and Zenith. 
Zenith were  concerned  that the other  driver was incurring hire car costs while the claim was 
ongoing, so chose to pay him the market  value to prevent any further hire charges being 
incurred. But it did this on a without prejudice  basis and with no admission  to liability.  And it 
continued to hold the other driver liable and defended any further claims for cost.
Mr M ultimately instructed  his own solicitor firm to pursue his losses  from the other driver 
directly. However, his solicitors later wrote to him to say that, because  Zenith had settled the 
other drivers  claim, it would only be able to pursue  the claim through  the courts.  And it 
advised Mr M that if he lost he could  be liable for his legal costs and also the other drivers 
costs. In January  2018 Zenith  decided  to close the claim as it hadnt heard from the other 
drivers solicitors for over a year and it assumed theyd  withdrawn  the claim.
Mr M complained to Zenith that it had settled the other drivers claim. Hes also thinks that it 
should have pursued the claim against  the other  driver more pro-actively. Hes also unhappy 
that Zenith  wont give his solicitors the other drivers  contact details to pursue the claim 
directly.
Zenith said that it could  only pursue the claim against the other driver if it had an outlay to 
pursue. And it said, given  Mr M wasnt able to claim for his damage, it didnt have anything  to 
recover. So it said it could only defend the other drivers claim which it said did as much as it 
could. It said it was entitled to settle the other drivers claim to minimise its potential  outlay.  
But it said that, settling  the claim on a without prejudice basis,  meant it wouldnt impact his 
prospects of success in court.
But Zenith accepted that it could have given Mr M more information throughout the claim 
process and kept him more updated.  And it offered him £100 in compensation for that. It also 
said that it had treated  the claim as a non-fault claim and allowed Mr Ms
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Zenith had acted reasonably in 
settling the claim on a without prejudice  basis. And he though it had handled the claim fairly.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
Ref: DRN51881512my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Zenith has already  offered fair compensation on this complaint and Ill now explain 
why.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing  an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether  Zenith  has carried  out 
a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision. So 
its not my role to say whether Mr Ms son was responsible for the accident or not.
Mr M is unhappy  that his solicitors have told him that Zeniths decision to settle the other  
drivers claim, even  though it was done  on a without prejudice basis, has meant  that they 
wont be able to negotiate a settlement. So theyve told Mr M that the only way of recovering 
his losses is through  litigation. 
I can understand why Mr M is unhappy with whats happened.  But Zenith was entitled to 
make the decision it did. Zenith  had reasonable concerns that the other  driver  was incurring 
hire car charges while  his claim was ongoing.  And these costs  can become expensive.  So I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for it to pay the market value for his car on a without 
prejudice basis to minimise  its potential  outlay on the claim if liability was ultimately  decided  
in the other  drivers favour.  And, in settling this claim on a without prejudice basis,  this didnt 
impact on any potential  litigation that may have followed. 
I appreciate that Mr M says that this has impacted  on his solicitors ability to negotiate a 
settlement. But, as I dont  think  Zenith acted unreasonably, I cant  require  it to compensate  
him for this. Furthermore, even if I did think Zenith had done something wrong, I also dont  
think there would  have been  any guarantee there  would have been  a settlement. So Im not 
persuaded that Mr M has lost out as a result of this in any event.
I note Mr M is unhappy that Zenith didnt pursue his claim against the other driver more pro-
actively. But Zenith is right that it can only pursue the other  driver  directly  if it had an outlay 
to pursue. And, given Mr M wasnt able to claim on his own insurance policy,  it didnt have 
an outlay. So Zeniths responsibility was to defend  the claim against the other driver. And Im 
satisfied that it did so. It continually held the other driver responsible and ultimately it 
appears that the other driver withdrew  the claim. So I cant say that Zenith handled the claim 
unreasonably.
However, I do agree with Zenith that it could have been clearer with Mr M about  its 
responsibilities in pursuing this claim as it appears that Mr M wasnt  aware he needed to 
pursue the claim  himself  for a long period of time. I also think it could have given him more 
regular updates throughout the claim.  That said, I dont think Mr M has lost out as a result of 
this. And Zenith has already offered him £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused. I think this is fair
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I think  Zenith Insurance  Plcs 
compensation offer of £100 is fair for the distress and inconvenience  its caused Mr M is fair 
Ref: DRN51881513in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I require it to pay this to him directly  if it hasnt  
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5188151