K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) sold by 
Lloyds Bank  Plc, trading  as Cheltenham  & Gloucester (C&G), in 1999.  
The mortgage was a joint one issued in the names  of Ms B and Mr B. But only Mr B was 
covered by the PPI. They say this cover  was mis-sold. For consistency Ill refer to C&G  in 
my decision.
background
One of our adjudicators said the complaint about  the policy being mis-sold shouldnt  be 
upheld. But they thought  Ms B and Mr B were due back some money for the commission 
and profit sharing elements C&G  got from selling the policy.
Ms B and Mr B still think the cover was mis-sold  in the first place and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. 
Im sure Ms B and Mr B now honestly  and genuinely  believe they were mis-sold  the cover  
and I can see they were originally told no such policy existed. I understand this would have 
been very frustrating  for them and felt quite  unfair.
However, with regard to their actual sale complaint, Ms B and Mr B say that they were told 
the PPI was something they needed to have to get their mortgage approved. But I think  they 
would have been able see, at the time of the sale, that the cover was optional.
I say this because  to get PPI with the mortgage, C&G required the filling  out of an application 
form which was in addition to the mortgage application process. I think this would have 
helped Ms B and Mr B to understand the PPI wasnt a compulsory product that needed to be 
added to their new mortgage. I see on that form they also asked for cover only in respect of 
Mr B and not Ms B. I think this shows they had thought about what they wanted to do and 
were setting up the PPI policy in a way that met their particular needs of the time.
Further to this, I see that Mr B was sent a letter on 21 April 1999 enclosing his new policy 
schedule. The letter said If you find that the cover  is not suitable,  please return your 
Policy Schedule with a covering letter to us within 30 days  of receiving your documents  and 
the policy will be cancelled. 
So I think these things  all show that Ms B and Mr B engaged in the sale process.  I think  they 
were afforded an appropriate degree  of choice and the letter strongly  implies  the optionality 
of what they went  on to buy. Furthermore,  I see Mr B wrote to C&G  on 12 March 2002 
cancelling the cover, again showing an awareness that he could do this under the mortgage 
terms and policy rules.
Ref: DRN54887442On balance, I therefore think C&G properly obtained  consent  for this PPI.
Its not disputed  that the PPI was recommended as part of an advised sale.  This means 
C&G had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable.  Overall I think it was.
I think this because Mr B was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Mr B appears to have been  the higher 
earner at the time and so him being covered does seem to make sense. 
He was employed and I agree he may have had some sickness  protection already with his 
job. But this doesnt  necessarily mean  the policy wasnt of use. Their  mortgage was secured 
against their home and so the consequences  of not being able to make  the repayments  
could have been serious. In the event  of a successful claim,  the PPI would have  helped  pay 
the mortgage for up to 12 months.  This would have  been in addition to the other means they 
had.
I therefore dont  think recommending  PPI was unreasonable as it was suitable  for them.
C&G also had to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm what would  have  been said at the meeting(s) and its possible C&G could have done 
a better  job in explaining  things. But from what Ive seen, I think  the cost would  have been  
made clear and I think Ms B and Mr B probably  had enough information on which  to make 
an informed choice about what they wanted to do.
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms B and Mr B but I dont  think the PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Which means Lloyds, trading as it was as C&G,  doesnt have  to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Ms B and Mr B. But it has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Ms B and Mr B because:  
When the policy was sold,  it expected  to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Ms B and Mr B 
about that. Because it didnt tell Ms B and Mr B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds should  pay back to Ms B and Mr B the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
pay Ms B and Mr B 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms B and Mr B can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms B and Mr B.
Ref: DRN54887443But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Ms B and Mr B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5488744