K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 1990. 
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI started in 1990. Mr and Mrs R cant understand why PPI was taken at that time - 
their mortgage had already been in force  for some years. I dont know  what prompted the 
sale. Mr and Mrs R werent, for example, applying for extra borrowing at the time. But given 
how long ago the sale was, I wouldnt expect to be able to explain now all the circumstances 
surrounding it. Also, the fact Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage was already running  doesnt mean 
Halifax was wrong to sell a policy to protect the mortgage.
Given how long ago the sale was, it isnt surprising  theres very little from the time to show  
how Halifax presented  the policy to Mr and Mrs R. Mr and Mrs R have  said they didnt know 
they had the cover. Theyve  said they thought theyd only taken out life insurance with their 
mortgage. But Mr R signed  a Mortgage  Payments  Protector Application showing a monthly 
benefit of £150 and cost of £6 per month. A certificate of cover  was produced showing the 
cover amount and naming Mr R as the person covered. A letter addressed to Mr and Mrs R 
was also produced to enclose the certificate.
Mr and Mrs R have said they wouldve had PPI in joint names like their mortgage. But the 
papers from the time make it clear  the cover  was for Mr R. Taking everything into account,  
I think Mr R agreed  to buy the policy, knew he was buying it and was aware of the monthly 
cost and benefit. Also Ive nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs R were  told they had to take the 
cover. So what I have doesnt make  me think they werent given a choice about  taking it.
If Halifax recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs R it had to do more and check  the policy 
was right for them. And Halifax thinks it did recommend the policy.  So Ive assessed the sale 
on that basis  which places on Halifax more responsibility for the sale.
The policy was cover on Mr R and, from what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the cover. So he couldve claimed on 
the cover  if something went wrong.  For example he didnt have any health  problems at the 
time and so wouldnt have been  affected by policy  exclusions for existing health issues. For 
a successful unemployment claim, the policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Rs redundancy 
pay. The policy disability  benefit wouldve paid out on top of any work sick pay Mr R had, 
although Mr and Mrs R havent told us Mr R was entitled to work sick pay like theyve  said 
Mrs R was. But if he didnt receive  work  sick pay, the benefit  wouldve been more useful still. 
So in any event  the policy benefit couldve given Mr and Mrs R greater security at what might 
be a difficult time if Mr R lost his job or was too sick to work. With all this in mind,  I think the 
cover was right for them.
Ref: DRN53777892Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it looks  to me like Mr R wanted  this type of cover  because  he signed  
for it and I havent seen  enough to make  me think he didnt choose to take it. Also, as Ive 
discussed above, it seems the cover wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs R if something  
went wrong. I think the fact that the cover  was on Mr R was likely  made  clear  as was the 
cost of the cover. So, taking everything  into account  and with all Ive said above in mind,  I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI or its cost wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Rs 
decision to take the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Rs points  and Im grateful  for the time theyve taken  to 
review evidence and provide  their further observations. But in the light of what Ive said 
above and for the reasons  Ive given, these points  dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr and Mrs R some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Richard Sheridan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5377789