K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about how Highway  Insurance Company Limited  (Highway)  handled a 
motorcycle insurance claim  for his stolen  motorbike. He said further damage was caused  by 
its salvage agent and wants compensation of £1,100 for this. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 September  2019, an extract of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I 
thought this complaint should  not be upheld. And I asked  both parties to send  me any further 
comments and information  before  I reached a final decision.
Highway confirmed that it had no further  information to add and accepted the findings.  Mr D 
however raised  further points in response to my provisional decision,  which  Ive considered  
and addressed below. Im now in a position  to issue my final decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr D raised  the following points, some  of which were  
raised in his initial complaint. Hes said that:
1)as weve  concluded  highway  is responsible  for the bike being returned in its 
damaged state, he shouldnt  be held responsible  for the storage or alarm  fees
that followed, as he would  never have agreed  to keep the bike;
2)there was no need for the bike to be moved to assess  the damage, and it should 
have been assessed  at the garage  where  he had chosen to store it;
3)the calculations  in the provisional decision are incorrect. He has calculated  these as: 
bike value - £7,625;  outstanding finance  - £4,346;  settlement already agreed - 
£2,144; remaining amount - £1,135. And the storage fees of £735 + alarm  cost of 
£360 = £1,095, which suggests £40 is missing.
 Ill address each point  in turn. 
I appreciate why Mr D feels he shouldnt be held responsible for any further  costs  associated 
with the storing  or securing of his bike. And my provisional decision set out why I think its 
more likely than not the additional  damage present on Mr Ds bike was caused while in 
Highways (or its agents)  possession. So, whether  or not Mr D should  be held liable for the 
storage and alarm  fees that followed, was something I thought about carefully.
When Mr D was informed his bike was a total loss, he seems to have made it clear he 
wanted to keep it  at which point  it was returned  (albeit in its damaged state) to his chosen  
repairer. And I accept  Mr Ds said he would never have agreed  to accept the bike back, had 
he known the condition it was in. And hes explained  that the reason he was unable to visit 
the garage to see the bike until much later was due to him being in hospital. 
But Ive listened  to the initial call that Mr D made to our service regarding his complaint. And 
in this call, he explained that hed been  in and out of hospital and had work to juggle,  and so 
Ref: DRN58974132he hadnt had the chance to go and see the bike. Which  is different to Mr D being unable to 
see the bike due to him being in hospital. 
So, I think at the point the bike was returned to Mr Ds garage, if he was able to attend  work 
as hes indicated, its reasonable  to conclude he was well enough to have been able to visit 
the garage to see the bike, or at least arrange  for someone else to inspect it  at which point 
it wouldve been clear  its condition had deteriorated.  Mr D would have then been able to notify 
Highway he no longer wanted  to keep the bike, and therefore mitigate his losses for the 
storage costs and alarm fees that followed. 
So, I think the subsequent costs accrued after the bike was returned to Mr Ds chosen 
garage, were  not as a result of the bike being  returned, but as a result  of the bike not being 
inspected by Mr D for a number of months. So, for the same  reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont think its fair to hold Highway responsible for the storage or alarm 
costs Mr D has incurred. And therefore,  I make  no further award in that respect.
Regarding Mr Ds second point  I appreciate he feels that his bike didnt need to be 
removed from his chosen garage for it to be assessed. 
Highways explained that the reason the vehicle  was sent to be assessed at its salvage  
agents, was that the report it received from Mr Ds garage, which  included  an estimated cost 
of repairs, suggested  that the bike would be considered a total loss. So I think it was 
reasonable for the bike to be sent to its salvage  agent to be assessed there. Because  if the 
bike was deemed  a total loss (which it was), this is where it wouldve ultimately been sent. 
So, I dont think Highway  was wrong in doing  this, and again, I wont be making any award to 
Mr D in that respect.
Mr Ds third point  is that he thinks the calculations made  in my assessment were incorrect by 
around £40. Ill try and explain these  calculations in a little further detail. 
The bike was valued at £7,625, from which £4,346  was owing in outstanding finance, leaving 
£3,279 remaining.  Mr D was required to pay the first £400 of his claim by way of an excess 
on his policy. As explained  above,  Im satisfied Mr D is responsible for the storage  fees of 
£735. And when  these  costs are deducted from the £3,279 that remained,  this leaves an 
outstanding amount owed  to Mr D of £2,144.
Highway has made two payments to Mr D  one for £879 and another  for £1,265   which  
totals the £2,144 owed. So, Im satisfied  Mr D has been awarded the correct amount in 
respect of his claim. So again, I wont be asking Highway to pay anything  further  to Mr D in 
settlement of his claim.
I accept Mr Ds unhappy with the decision Ive made. But having reviewed all the information 
afresh, including  the new points raised  by Mr D, Ive reached the same conclusions  I reached 
in my provisional decision,  and for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN58974133my final decision
I understand Highway  Insurance  Company Limited has offered Mr D £2,744 in total 
settlement of his claim, which includes £600 in compensation. I conclude  thats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Highway Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr D this 
amount if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Brad Mcilquham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN58974134extract  from provisional  decision
background
Mr Ds motorbike was stolen in August  2018 and was recovered  shortly after and sent to a garage of 
his choosing. His bike needed to be assessed by the insurer,  so it was collected by its salvage  agent 
to be inspected  and delivered to its approved repairer.  
The repairer  assessed the damage and said the bike should be written-off (known as a total loss) as 
the cost of repairs exceeded  its value. And Highway agreed to settle Mr Ds claim  on this basis.  It 
valued Mr Ds bike at £7,500,  and deducted  the excess, outstanding  finance and value of the salvage 
for him keeping the bike, and made payment to him for £879. It then returned the bike to his chosen 
garage as Mr D had wanted to keep it.
Mr D was in and out of hospital for some  time, so it wasnt until March 2019 that he went to the 
garage to collect the bike. During this time hed accrued  storage costs of £735; and hed had to pay 
£360 for a new alarm.
Upon arriving at the garage Mr D noticed additional damage to his bike and saw that parts  were 
missing. He says,  had he known  his bike had been returned in this condition,  he would never  have 
agreed to keep it, and therefore wouldnt  have incurred the storage or alarm costs he did. He was also 
unhappy with the £7,500 valuation,  and believes it was worth more.
Highway said it looked at images of the bike before and after its salvage agent collected it but 
identified no changes to its condition. But it agreed to a further inspection  in March 2018 to reassess  
its value,  and instructed its engineer to provide a second report. The report  came back setting  out the 
level of damage  present, and what its engineer thought was the cause - and it increased the bikes  
valuation from £7,500 to £7,625. But as the estimated  repair costs were  £7,628, this meant the bike 
was still a total loss.
Highway recalculated  the settlement  based  on the new valuation and the fact Mr D no longer wanted 
to keep the bike,  which  took his settlement  to £2,144. So it paid him a further £1,265. Mr D remained 
unhappy with Highways offer and asked to see the before and after photos.
Highway said it had made  a mistake and the only pictures available were from the date the bike was 
collected from the garage, and not from when it was returned.  It also said no photos  were  available 
from Mr Ds garage, and that no delivery  note was left by its salvage  agent. But because  it thought the 
salvage agent  should have completed a delivery  note and taken  pictures, it agreed to pay Mr D a 
further £600  as a gesture of goodwill. Mr D remained  unhappy and brought his complaint to this 
service. 
An investigator has looked into Mr Ds complaint  already. She thought that Highway had handled Mr 
Ds claim reasonably,  and she thought its offer to settle  his claim was fair. So she didnt  uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr D remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive currently reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, but for slightly different reasons.  Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN58974135Mr D had wanted to keep his bike. So to have realised this was no longer worthwhile due to the level 
of damage present must have been upsetting. Mr Ds referenced external reviews which he feels  
supports his view that the salvage agent was responsible for the damage.  And hes also provided 
further images of the bike at the point the salvage agent were selling it, suggesting its condition  had 
changed further.
Mr D may have seen negative reviews  about  the salvage agent  and its practices, and I can 
understand why he thinks this supports  his claim. But my role is to consider  whats happened in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint. And if something  went wrong, then what Highway should  
do to put things right.
Theres nothing to show  for definite where  the additional damage  to Mr Ds bike occurred, so Ive 
thought about whats most likely. At the point Highways salvage agent  collected  the bike, it took 
pictures of its condition.  And it seems that further pictures should have also been taken at the point  
the bike was returned.  A delivery note should have also been provided, so that it could evidence 
whether or not any further damage  was caused while  in its possession. But it seems this didnt 
happen.
While the sheer  absence  of this evidence doesnt necessarily mean Highway was responsible for the 
damage, the garage the vehicle  was being held at had been given no authority to go ahead with 
repairs, and was only storing  the bike. So I think its unlikely  that Mr Ds bike was damaged while in 
storage with his chosen garage. 
When an insurer considers a vehicle to be a total loss its a general  principle of insurance that the 
salvage becomes the insurers property. Its usual for the insurer to then sell this to a salvage agent. 
Im pleased to see Highway agreed to Mr D keeping  the salvage himself  when he asked, however  its 
unclear at exactly what point the salvage agent was made aware that Mr D wanted to keep the bike. 
But given the capacity it was acting in, I think its more likely that Highways  salvage agent assumed it 
would be keeping the bike once Highway deemed it a total loss. And that it wasnt until such time that 
it realised Mr D wanted  his bike back that it was returned to his garage, in its present condition. So I 
think its more  likely  than not, that the damage to Mr Ds bike occurred, while it was in Highways, or 
one of its agents  possession.  
Mr D had bought this bike and it was a limited  edition,  so the fact it was no longer worth keeping 
would understandably have caused him some distress, for which I think  Highway should  compensate 
him. But Highways already  agreed to pay Mr D £600 due to the fact no delivery note or photos were 
provided by its salvage  agent. And this is the same sort of amount Id be suggesting if it hadnt  
already offered to pay this. I think this fairly  recognises  the upset Highways failings  would  have 
caused Mr D. So I think this offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The next thing to consider is whether or not Highways offer to settle Mr Ds claim  was reasonable. So 
the first thing Ive looked at is the valuation. 
When a bike is damaged as a result of theft,  the policy says Highway  will either repair  or replace it, or 
will give the legal owner a cash  payment  of up to, or the same as, the market value or agreed value of 
the motorcycle at the time it was damaged. 
It doesnt  seem that Mr D had an agreed value  policy, so its the market  value that applies here.  The 
policy defines  market value as  The cost of replacing your motorcycle with one of the same  make, 
model, specification, mileage and age, and which  is in the same condition your  motorcycle was in 
immediately before  the loss or damage you are claiming  for.
When looking  at complaints of this nature, we dont carry out our own valuations.  But we look to see 
whether the insurer has made a fair and reasonable offer in settling a claim. To do this, we use 
relevant trade guides which we generally  find persuasive, as theyre based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. 
Ref: DRN58974136Highway initially valued Mr Ds bike at £7,500, and this was further increased  to £7,625 after a second 
inspection. Having looked at relevant trade guides,  they suggest the retail  price of a bike in the same 
condition as Mr Ds prior to the theft,  would have been around £7,437. Highway  also provided adverts 
to show  similar bikes being sold for that amount. Given that Highways  offer is higher than the trade 
guides suggest,  Im satisfied  the valuation  Highway  placed  on the bike was fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mr D wants a higher figure than this for the extra parts of his bike he said were  damaged 
or had gone  missing. But this settlement is based on the pre-damaged  condition of the bike. So the 
sum offered already takes into account the cost of these  parts.  So to agree  to reimburse these costs 
further would be to indemnify Mr D for his claim twice, which I dont think  is fair to do. So Im not 
asking Highway to increase its offer here. 
As I think Highways valuation  of Mr Ds bike is fair, I then need to consider the deductions its made 
before settling his claim, and whether these were reasonable.
The first deduction was for the excess on Mr Ds policy. This is the agreed amount of money a policy 
holder will first pay towards a claim. So in practice, this is the amount an insurer will usually deduct 
initially from any claim payment due. Im satisfied Mr Ds policy had an excess  on it of £400,  and that 
this excess  was due to be paid in respect of Mr Ds claim. So I think it was fair of Highway to have 
deducted this amount at the time of settlement.  
The next deduction was for the outstanding hire purchase finance owed. When  financing a vehicle on 
hire purchase, monthly repayments are usually  made with the loan secured  against the vehicle. This 
means a customer doesnt own the vehicle until the last payment is made. In the event the vehicle is 
written-off and outstanding finance is still owed,  then any money  due to the customer  needs  to be 
used to clear the outstanding finance first. 
The figure  provided  by Mr Ds finance provider suggests the outstanding  finance owing  on Mr Ds bike 
was £4,346. So I think it was right for Highway  to have paid this amount  to the finance provider  upon 
settling Mr Ds claim. So Im satisfied its acted fairly in this regard.
The final deduction from Mr Ds settlement was £735 for storage costs. Mr Ds bike had been  stored 
at the garage for a considerable amount of time, and Im satisfied the above costs were due to be 
paid. I appreciate Mr Ds health at the time meant he wasnt  able to visit the garage as soon as he 
otherwise may have been able to, which might have allowed him to potentially mitigate  some of his 
costs. And I think  its likely that had Mr D seen  the damage present on his bike in October 2018,  he 
would have made the same  choice as he did some five months later not to keep it.
But equally,  while I accept  the delays  were largely  outside of Mr Ds control, his bike was returned to 
the garage by Highways salvage agent the month after it was collected.  So the fact he didnt visit the 
garage for a further  five months, which ultimately  led to the storage costs being incurred, was not 
Highways fault either. So as I dont think these delays were caused by Highway,  this isnt something I 
hold it responsible for. So Im not telling it to do any more regarding his storage or alarm costs. 
The above amounts when deducted from the value  of Mr Ds bike left £2,144 remaining. And 
Highways told us it sent Mr D two cheques; one for £879  and another for £1,265.  So Im satisfied 
Highway has settled Mr Ds claim as I would  have  expected,  and that hes been paid the correct  
amount. 
Mr D is understandably  unhappy he was unable to have his bike returned, and I appreciate he wants 
to be compensated further. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I currently think Highways already 
done enough  to resolve this issue  and settle Mr Ds claim.  So in the circumstances, I wont be asking 
it do any more. I know this isnt the answer  Mr D was hoping for, but I hope Ive been able to explain 
clearly why Ive reached this conclusion.
Ref: DRN58974137Mr Ds also complained about his number  plate not being returned, but hes since confirmed this issue 
has now been  resolved,  so I havent  addressed  this in my decision.
Ref: DRN5897413