K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complained she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS).
background
Mrs L took out the PPI in October  2004 when she applied for a credit  card.  BoS said that the 
sale took place  during  a meeting and that Mrs L was advised to take the cover.  Mrs L 
thought the sale took place by phone. She said she wasnt  given a choice about taking the 
PPI, she wasnt given  information about it and it wasnt suitable for her.
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mrs L had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mrs Ls credit card agreement.  Im satisfied from the content of the 
document that this was a branch sale. The agreement shows a cross in a box to say that 
Mrs L wanted PPI (but no cross in a second box relating  to another  insurance  product).  The 
cross was pre-printed  but so was all the other information  on the form, including  Mrs Ls 
income and address details. So I think its likely  that the form was printed out after a 
discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed part of that discussion. I consider it 
reasonable to think that Mrs L would have looked  over the form she signed, even if only 
briefly. So, on balance,  I think  Mrs L was given a choice about whether to take the PPI  and 
that she agreed to it. I think  she probably just doesnt remember  doing so after all this time.
Im satisfied BoS advised Mrs L to take out the PPI. So it had to make  sure that it was 
suitable for her. I think it was.
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Mrs L wouldve been affected by any of 
these.
Mrs L said she wouldve been  entitled  to sick pay from her employer of six months full pay. 
She also said she wouldve received some  redundancy  pay and she had the equivalent of 
two to three  months  pay in savings. On balance  I think Mrs L could have found it difficult  to 
make the payments on her credit card once her sick pay ended  or if shed lost her job. And 
Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. So I dont 
think there was anything wrong  with BoS recommending  the PPI.
Ref: DRN58980892Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mrs L. As Ive said,  I cant  know  
how the adviser explained the policy, or when Mrs L mightve been given a policy summary 
or full policy document. So its possible the information about the cost and benefits  may not 
have been as clear  as it shouldve been.
However, given Mrs Ls circumstances, I dont think more detailed  information about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed her decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if shed  been unable to work.
Overall, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mrs L 
paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs L back  some  of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I understand BoS has made this payment to Mrs L.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5898089