K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained, on behalf of the estate of his late father, about the actions of 
Principal Insurance  Limited (PIL).
background
Mr G received letters, including  demands for monies from a credit provider, in his late 
fathers name. Those  letters indicated that PIL had sold Mr Gs father an insurance policy  
after his father had already died. PIL is an insurance broker so it sells policies and might 
help with their administration. But the cover  is provided by an insurer (the insurer) which is a 
separate business. Mr G complained to PIL on behalf of his fathers estate. PIL referred the 
matter to the insurer who investigated  the matter. The insurer cancelled  the policy  as if it had 
never existed.
PIL didnt initially reply  directly to the estates  complaint. As such  Mr G contacted a fraud 
agency on behalf of the estate and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  noted  that 
PIL hadn't done anything  wrong in setting  up the complaint. But he said it hadn't responded 
to the complaint promptly. And that caused  inconvenience and costs to the estate. To 
address that our adjudicator recommended  that PIL should pay Mr G, on behalf of the 
estate, £50. PIL didn't agree to our adjudicators  findings so the complaints been passed  to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
The policy at issue was bought online. Its now apparent that someone had impersonated 
Mr Gs late father when  applying for that policy. But I don't think  that automatically  means  
that PIL did anything  wrong in selling  the policy. As far as I'm aware there's no regulatory  
responsibility for brokers or insurers to validate  an online applicants details are correct  when 
they sell a policy. And given that a policy applicant often needs  a policy  to begin 
straightaway, I wouldn't expect a broker like PIL to insist on verifying  an applicants details 
prior to issuing a policy. Indeed many brokers and insurers will only seek to verify  certain  
information from a policy applicant after a claim is made. And I don't find that unreasonable.  
So I don't think  PIL initially did anything wrong when it sold the policy,  even  though we now 
know that the applicant was someone impersonating Mr Gs father.
But after he learned  about the policy, Mr G took action  on behalf of his fathers estate to sort 
the matter out. And because he wasn't happy  with PILs  progress he complained  in April 
2018. Its now apparent  that PIL did take action to have the policy  cancelled  but it didn't  reply 
directly to the complaint. So Mr G didn't  know what action PIL had taken in response  to the 
estates concerns. And as a result  he took further  action  - on behalf of the estate  to contact 
a fraud  agency  and others to try to protect the estates interests.  He also brought his 
complaint to us. Those actions caused  the estate to incur costs of £50. Those  costs  might 
have been avoided if PIL had responded promptly to the estates  concerns.  But it didn't reply  
to the complaint until after Mr G had brought the complaint to us. And by that time the estate 
had already suffered losses. So, in order to put things right I think that PIL should 
compensate Mr G, on behalf of the estate, the sum of £50.
Ref: DRN54767912my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint in part. I require Principal Insurance  
Limited to refund Mr G, on behalf  of the late Mr Gs estate,  the sum of £50 it incurred 
because PIL didn't respond  to the estates  complaint  promptly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision, on behalf of the estate  of the late Mr G, before 7 June 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5476791