K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse her for two cash  withdrawals she 
made after she fell victim to a scam.
background
Mrs H holds a cash ISA with Santander. In March  2018, she received a call from someone 
claiming to be a Police Officer. Mrs H says the caller gave her his badge number and a 
crime reference number  and told her he was part of an investigation into alleged 
embezzlement by branch  staff. Unknown  to Mrs H at the time,  she was speaking  to a 
scammer, and no such investigation was taking  place.
The scammer persuaded Mrs H to assist with the police investigation by withdrawing  cash 
from her branch on two dates. This money would later be collected from her - purportedly  for 
fingerprint analysis.  Mrs H was instructed to say that the money was to pay for a new kitchen 
or bathroom, should she be asked.
On 19 March 2018, Mrs H visited a Santander branch to withdraw the first sum.  She made a 
counter withdrawal of £5,000 in cash. Santander says Mrs H provided the identification 
required and was read a scam script.  Its provided the cashiers  notes from the transaction,  
which include the words  for kitchen .
The following  day, Mrs H visited the same branch, and made  a further  cash withdrawal. This 
time she withdrew £4,600. Santander again says that Mrs H provided the necessary 
identification and the withdrawal was agreed, but it doesnt have a record of the reason for 
this withdrawal  and, more generally,  it says its staff have little or no recollection  of the 
events of either transaction.
Mrs H then handed the money  to the scammer (believing he was a Police  Officer). Later that 
day she spoke to her daughter who realised Mrs H had likely fallen victim to a scam. They  
reported this to Santander.
The scammer had already  collected the cash from Mrs H, so there was nothing  Santander  
could do to retrieve the funds. Santander  said that because Mrs H had withdrawn the 
money, it was not responsible for her losses. It acknowledged that shed been  given some 
incorrect information when shed reported the scam,  and it paid her £75 in compensation.
Our investigator thought that Santander  could have prevented the scam. She thought  there 
were indicators that Mrs H might  be a vulnerable customer at the time. The investigator 
thought there was sufficient reason for Santander  to be concerned Mrs H was about to fall 
victim to a scam or fraud.  She didnt  think the reason Mrs H had given was sufficient to 
reassure the bank on this point. She said that by following the banking  protocol and 
questioning Mrs H further, Santander  would  likely  have identified  Mrs H had been given a 
basic cover  story, and so ultimately prevented the withdrawals. 
Santander didnt  agree. It said Mrs Hs account was an instant access ISA, and this 
suggested Mrs H had chosen an account  permitting  her to freely access  her funds. It said it 
had an obligation  to allow customers access to their funds, under the account  mandate.  
While neither cashier had much recollection  of the withdrawals, Santander said that on both 
occasions Mrs H had been read out a script, containing a reference to this specific scam.
Ref: DRN58830012Santander said it didnt  think  the amounts shed withdrawn were  extraordinary, and didnt 
think the banking  protocol  was the appropriate  response here. It said Mrs H had misled its 
branch staff and given  a plausible but false  reason for the withdrawals. 
It didnt agree there was sufficient reason, in the moment, for its staff to be concerned Mrs H 
was at risk of financial harm. 
Santander has since offered to refund  the second  withdrawal of £4,600  and pay £100 for 
Mrs Hs distress and inconvenience. But it didnt accept it should  reimburse  Mrs H for the 
initial withdrawal of £5,000. Mrs H did not accept  Santanders offer.
As a result, the complaint has been  referred  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises  that a bank may be liable to its customer  if it makes a payment  in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds (although  not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known  as the Quincecare duty).
Regulated firms  like Santander are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) February  2016  report 
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances );
look to identify  and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result  of a scam (something  also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October  2017  Protecting customers  from 
Ref: DRN58830013financial harm as a result of fraud or financial  abuse  Code of practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and,
in relation to branch  transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more  familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mrs H when she withdrew £9,600  in cash, in branch, over two days, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
As Ive explained above, Santander  has now offered to refund Mrs H the amount she paid 
the scammer  through the second  transaction, so I shall only consider that transaction  briefly  
and I will focus on the first transaction.
Of particular relevance in this case is the Banking  Protocol, so I have  set out more 
information about that below. But I note the BSI Code  also contains similar 
recommendations to detect and prevent fraud.
The Banking  Protocol
The Banking Protocol  is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector  
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office)  and Trading Standards 
aimed at identifying customers who are in the process of being defrauded and implementing 
safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss of funds. It 
has been fully in force since March 2018. 
In broad terms, according to UK Finances  toolkit for PSPs,  financial businesses commit to: 
Look out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the Banking 
Protocol procedure  when such transactions are identified.
Discreetly question  the customer about  the withdrawal or transaction and their reasons 
for making  it, keeping  in mind that the customer may have been told they are helping to 
catch a corrupt bank employee and may have  been given a cover  story to tell if asked 
about the transaction.
Consider the responses against  what they expect as normal activity on the individuals 
account. If they are concerned or suspicious that the customer  may be the victim  of 
fraud, they should  notify a senior member of staff, who should take the customer  to a 
quiet area and ask further questions to establish more details.
If the senior  colleague  believes the customer is the victim  of fraud, either  as a result of 
the answers provided or through  their general  behaviour,  they should call the Police 
immediately who will attend the branch  to speak to the customer.  
Ref: DRN58830014The Banking Protocol  procedures are not limited to elderly or vulnerable  customers, or 
certain fraud  types, and bank staff are encouraged to contact the Police  even if they are not 
sure
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained I consider that as a matter  of good practice Santander  should  have been 
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.  Im satisfied the request Mrs H 
made to withdraw  such a large amount of cash was one that was clearly out of character and 
unusual for her. I believe there were  also other  warning signs  that Mrs H might be at risk of 
financial harm  Ive explained why below.
Mrs Hs ISA account was initially opened in May 2010. I can see from the statement  history 
that shed never made a withdrawal from the account prior to the scam. So, at a very basic 
level the first withdrawal of £5,000 in cash during the scam was a change in her typical 
usage of the account, in that this activity was different to what  had happened in the previous 
eight years.
Santander says that this type of account  permitted instant access  withdrawals, indicating 
that when Mrs H chose  this account it was her intention to make  such  withdrawals.
I accept that is possible. Of course,  there could have been other reasons for choosing  the 
account. But it doesnt automatically  follow that choosing an instant access  ISA means that a 
customer intends to use it to make large cash withdrawals in branch. And Mrs H had not 
previously made withdrawals of that nature.
Even if that was the reason for her choice, I dont think  this makes a £5,000 cash withdrawal  
one Id consider  typical for Mrs H, given that shed  held the account for several years without 
making any similar transactions or indeed any withdrawals at all.
Mrs H was in her mid-70s, widowed  and retired at the time the scam occurred. I dont intend 
to make a finding on whether or not Mrs H was a vulnerable customer  at the time.  But I do 
consider Mrs Hs individual circumstances relevant factors, in that this profile is one 
disproportionately targeted by scammers.  So, I think this meant  she was at greater risk of 
becoming a victim of a scam  this is recognised by the Banking Protocol and the BBAs  
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances (although  Santander 
should have been on the lookout for any unusual or out of character transaction,  whether 
Mrs H was vulnerable or not). 
And I think this should have been something the branch staff considered when thinking 
about whether  Mrs H might be at risk of financial harm when she made such  a large  cash 
withdrawal. Thats been good industry  practice  for some considerable time (for example, as 
recognised in an earlier statement of best practice from the BBA entitled the national 
banking protocol).
The transaction records show that the money was withdrawn in £20 notes. That means 250 
notes in total. Aside from any other  consideration, Id expect there to have been some  concern 
about the safety of Mrs H carrying this amount of cash with her on leaving the branch. 
Im also mindful the reason that Mrs H gave the branch staff for the first cash  withdrawal, to 
pay for a kitchen, potentially matched a common scam:  the rogue trader scam. This is a 
well-known type of scam that typically targets older consumers who live alone,  and usually  
Ref: DRN58830015involves large cash  withdrawals. The scam Mrs H fell victim to wasnt a rogue trader  scam,  
but given the circumstances,  I think  Santander  ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
considered this to be a possibility requiring further exploration. On top of this, I think 
Santander ought to have  carefully considered whether a reputable business would likely ask 
a customer - especially  an elderly customer - to pay for a new kitchen in cash.
So, considering all of this, Im satisfied  there  were several  signs that Mrs H could be at risk. 
Because of this Santander branch staff ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have had some  doubt 
about the purpose of the large cash withdrawal and asked further questions when Mrs H 
said that she was withdrawing the cash to pay for a kitchen. 
It would appear Santander branch staff, may have recognised that the first withdrawal was 
not a run of the mill transaction. I say this because for the first transaction,  the staff member  
recorded that Mrs H was read a script  relating to scams. From what I understand this isnt a 
script that will be read to every consumer and for every transaction.  Rather, the fact that this 
was read here suggests the staff member identified this as being a transaction  where  there 
was a higher than usual risk of the consumer losing money to a scam.
But Ive thought carefully about whether reading this scam script  meant  that Santander did 
enough in this case. Clearly it didnt break the spell as Mrs H went on to withdraw the cash, 
and Mrs H doesnt recall  the detail of what she was told. So I think its fair to conclude it 
didnt have much impact on her. 
I think its also important to highlight  the Banking  Protocol  recognises that banks will often 
have to ask more detailed and specific questions  to understand  whether a customer might 
be a victim of fraud. And it recognises  that customers are often convinced  by the fraudsters 
story and so ultimately  it may be necessary to ask more detailed questions  or even escalate 
the matter to the police  before a customer realises they are a victim of fraud. 
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that in this case, the branch staff ought to have 
asked further  probing questions, on top of the script. As Ive previously  explained there were 
several indicators  that Mrs H might be the victim of fraud. 
And Im persuaded Mrs H was acting out of the belief that she was genuinely assisting  in a police 
investigation, under the spell of the scammer.  As such, I dont think it is surprising that the reading 
of a generic statement,  the majority  of which did not relate to her situation,  didnt  break that spell. 
Theres obviously a balance to strike,  and Im not suggesting that Mrs H should  have been 
subjected to an interrogation by the branch  staff.  But the onus was on the branch staff to 
reasonably satisfy themselves that their customer wasnt about to become the victim  of a 
scam. And in this case  I think the staff ought to have  had concerns and suspicions based on 
the circumstances of the transaction and what they had been told about it.
Had further questioning happened, I think its more likely than not the story  Mrs H had given 
would have begun to unravel. I say this because, while the scammer told her to use a specific 
reason for the withdrawal,  based on what Mrs H has told us Im not persuaded this story was 
particularly detailed or, in the circumstances of this case, that it would have  stood up to more  
than the most basic level of enquiry.  Indeed, it seems from Santanders records  that by the 
time the scam was reported,  the reason Mrs H recalled giving was paying  for a bathroom 
rather than a kitchen.  This suggests the details  werent even especially clear  in Mrs Hs mind.
Had the story unravelled in the way I think it likely wouldve, I believe the scam would more 
likely than not have  come to light. Whether  or not this wouldve been through  further  
Ref: DRN58830016questioning from the cashier,  a manager or even a police  officer  is unknown.  But I am 
ultimately persuaded Mrs H wouldnt have withdrawn the cash, and wouldnt  have  financially 
lost out as the result of a scam  had Santander taken the time to ask further  questions  as 
I think it ought fairly and reasonably to have  done in all the circumstances, given the number 
of indicators that Mrs H might be at risk. 
Finally, Ive taken into account  Santanders belief that Mrs H misled  the branch  staff when 
she asked to withdraw the cash. As Ive already explained, Im satisfied Mrs H was under the 
spell of the scammer.  She was in my opinion carefully manipulated and coached into 
thinking she was helping the police.  The Banking Protocol sets out that bank staff shouldnt 
just accept what a customer  tells them because it recognises that been given a cover  story 
is a well-recognised feature of a scam. So I dont think Mrs Hs actions, whilst  she was under  
the spell of a scam, means that Santander  shouldnt have done more, or that she shouldnt 
now be compensated.
Overall Im satisfied that had Santander  taken the steps I think  it ought  fairly and reasonably  
to have taken,  the scam would have been prevented at the point of the first transaction. It 
follows that that Im also satisfied that neither of the withdrawals would have taken place, 
and Mrs H would not have lost any of the money  she did.
Had I reached different  conclusions about  the first cash  withdrawal,  I would in any event 
have upheld Mrs Hs complaint about  the second  £4,600 cash withdrawal she made on the 
following day. 
In all the circumstances, including  the fact she had withdrawn £5,000 in cash the day before, 
Santander should, it seems to me, quite clearly  have identified the second payment  as a 
significant and unusual transaction and asked further probing questions.  If it had, Im 
satisfied that its more likely than not that the scam  would have been prevented.
impact on Mrs H.
Mrs Hs representative has explained  about the impact this event has had on Mrs H. He says 
Mrs H has since  suffered  from a sleep disorder as a result of the scam.
The bulk of that impact follows directly from the actions of the scammer. But I consider that 
Santander could  and ought to have prevented Mrs H from losing money as a result of the 
scam. By stopping the financial losses Mrs H incurred,  it is my finding  that Santander could 
have significantly reduced the overall  impact on Mrs H.
Considering everything, I think Santander  should  pay Mrs H £200 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of its actions - in addition to what  it 
has already paid. 
putting things right
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Santander UK Plc. I do not 
think it was fair and reasonable for Santander not to refund the amount Mrs H lost through  
becoming the victim of a scam.
I now direct  Santander to:
Ref: DRN58830017-refund Mrs H for the total of £9,600 she lost; less any sums  already refunded.  
-pay interest on that amount at the account  interest rate, from the date of the withdrawals 
to the date of settlement. If Santander  deducts tax from the interest element of this 
award, it should provide Mrs H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
-pay Mrs H £200 for the material distress and inconvenience she experienced, in addition 
to the £75 it has previously offered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Santander UK Plc should  calculate and 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5883001