K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains about the poor service  she received from TSB Bank plc when she tried to 
complete a car purchase.
background 
Mrs W and her husband were purchasing a car from a private seller in London.  Mrs Ws 
husband travelled to London to finalise the purchase.  The car had outstanding finance  and 
Mrs W decided  it would  be best if she paid this directly to the finance company and then paid 
the purchase price  balance to the seller.
When Mrs W attempted to use her TSB debit card to pay the finance  company a sum in 
excess of £10,000,  TSB blocked the payment. Mrs W said she received a text from TSB 
asking if she was attempting to make the payment, and having confirmed that she was, she 
was instructed to try again  in 10 minutes.  Mrs W said she rang TSBs  fraud  department and 
was told she would  be able to make the payment at 4pm. She tried again around  that time 
without success,  and then again  without success.
Mrs W rang the fraud team and has said that she answered all of the security questions 
correctly. But she was told that a block had been placed on her account, which would not be 
lifted until she had taken  ID to a branch. Given that it was by then almost branch closing 
time, and Mrs W was some distance  from her nearest branch, she knew she wouldnt be 
able to provide  the required ID until the following day.
Having spoken  to her husband Mrs W phoned  TSB again. She explained that her husband  
was now stuck in London as the car purchase hadnt been completed  and that he had no 
money to book accommodation.  He was therefore going to have to spend the night on the 
streets until she could visit a TSB branch the next day. She has said that TSB staff and a 
manager were unhelpful  and unsympathetic, and that they maintained that there  was nothing 
they could do.
Mrs W said TSBs actions  caused her further distress because  her children, who have 
special needs,  were upset because their father  had been unable to return  home that night as 
expected. 
Mrs W visited a TSB branch the next day (Friday) with ID and staff liaised with the fraud 
team to unblock  her account. More  than once Mrs W was told she should be able to use her 
card, but she found she couldnt. In the end branch staff processed a free chaps transfer for 
her to enable her husband to complete the car purchase. Mrs W has said that her card then 
remained blocked over the weekend and she was unable to use it until Monday.
Mrs W complained  to TSB about  what had happened without success, and so she brought 
her complaint to us.
In summary,  our adjudicator considered that TSB should have done more  than it did to 
resolve the block it had placed on Mrs Ws account. He recognised  that in the interests of 
customer security  the bank was entitled to query Mrs Ws large debit card payment to the 
finance company.  But having done  so, TSB then appeared to have acted particularly 
inefficiently in resolving matters. This inefficiency  caused Mrs W significant distress and 
inconvenience. Our adjudicator recommended that TSB pay Mrs W £150  in compensation, 
and the bank agreed.
Ref: DRN56594652But Mrs W didnt  agree saying the suggested sum wasnt fair recompense for the upset the 
bank had caused her, her husband  and her children. She also highlighted the fact that she 
had had to take a morning  off work to visit the branch, and her husband had had to take an 
additional day off work.  She said she had also incurred telephone and car parking charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W was attempting to make a large debit  card payment, which was identified by TSBs 
systems as of potential  concern. Banks are required to do all they can to maintain the 
security and integrity of customers accounts, and customers quite rightly  expect them  to do 
this. Given the amount  of Mrs Ws attempted  card payment, it seems to me reasonable that 
TSBs systems identified  it as requiring further verification before releasing the money.
But it would appear that Mrs W was unable to satisfy  TSBs fraud department during her 
phone call. She has said that she answered all of the security  questions correctly, but the 
fraud team remained concerned. As part of their customer retention policy it seems to me 
reasonable to assume that banks  intend to provide good customer service. Consequently,  I 
wouldnt expect them to put unnecessary obstacles  in the way of customers using their 
accounts unless  they believed they had good reason to do so. And here TSBs fraud 
department believed it had good reason  to ask Mrs W to visit a branch with ID, even though 
she had apparently answered the security questions  correctly. 
Banks are entitled to determine their own security  arrangements  and procedures and it is not 
for this service to seek to interfere with these. And so although I recognise the difficulties 
caused for Mrs W and her family by TSBs decision that she visit a branch with ID, Im afraid  
that I cannot find that the bank was wrong to ask her to do so. 
But having  taken her ID to the branch the following morning, and satisfied branch staff as to 
her identity, TSBs fraud  department appears to have been unable  to remove  the block  from 
Mrs Ws account in a timely manner. This was poor service, and TSB has agreed  that it was. 
However, the branch staff facilitated the car purchase whilst Mrs W was in branch  by making 
a free chaps  transfer. And so although  Mrs W will no doubt have had to spend  more time in 
the branch than she might otherwise have done if the fraud  team had unblocked  her account 
expeditiously, in my view that delay had no material impact on her car purchase.  
Mrs W has complained that TSB staff were rude and unhelpful  when she rang to explain that 
her husband  would be without accommodation in London because  of the banks actions. I 
havent been supplied with a copy of that call, but I accept that Mrs W found  the attitude of 
staff to be hostile and unhelpful. And there is no excuse  for that. But even if staff had been 
more understanding and supportive, it seems to me unlikely to have resulted in Mrs Ws 
account being unblocked before she had visited a branch with ID. 
Mrs W has said TSBs actions caused  her and her family very great  distress  and 
inconvenience, as well as additional costs. But Im afraid that as it is only Mrs W who is a 
TSB customer I can only consider the impact of the banks actions on her, and not on her 
wider family.
Ref: DRN56594653In summary,  I do not criticise TSB for initially blocking  Mrs Ws attempted payment to the 
finance company,  nor its requirement that she visit a branch  with ID. I consider these actions 
by the bank to have  been reasonable.
But once Mrs W had satisfied branch staff as to her identity it then took the bank too long to 
unblock her account.  And although  this didnt impact on her car purchase it did cause her 
unnecessary upset and inconvenience.
Having considered the full circumstances of this complaint my decision is that a payment of 
£150 by TSB to Mrs W would be fair and reasonable recompense for the impact  on her of its 
service shortcomings. 
my final decision
My decision  is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mrs W £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5659465