K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold an online plumbing course when he entered into an 
agreement with Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited. He says that course wasnt as 
described and he couldnt afford the monthly payments.
background
In August  2017  Mr B enrolled  on an online plumbing course ad entered into a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with CCF. The amount of the loan was £7145 with an interest rate of 0%. The 
monthly payment  was £165 for 43 months.
Mr B says the loan was unaffordable and that the salary details used by the representative 
included overtime so it wasnt his usual income. Mr B says the representative  didnt ask for 
proof of his income.  In relation to the course  itself, Mr B says he found  it challenging 
because he is dyslexic. He says there  was no tutor support.  Mr B wants CCF to cancel the 
loan agreement.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said CCF had done  enough to check  the 
loan was affordable.  She also said the course was an open learning course with helplines  
available on both weekdays and at weekends. The investigator concluded  that the course  
wasnt mis-sold.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he wanted  to cancel  the agreement because he felt hed been 
pressured into enrolling on the course. He said he didnt intend  to continue with the course 
because hed lost interest in the subject.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Irresponsible lending
In deciding whether  its appropriate to advance credit, lenders must undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks to see if lending is affordable.  The checks the lender is required to 
do depend on several factors including the amount  of credit,  the level of repayments and the 
information the customer has provided.
Mr B provided CCF with information about his income. This was used to complete an 
affordability assessment  form.  Ive looked at the form and I can see that Mr B has signed a 
declaration at the bottom confirming that the figures  on the form show  his net monthly salary 
not including  bonus. Because Mr B signed the declaration, CF was entitled  to reply upon  the 
information as accurate.  The information  on the form shows  that Mr Bs net monthly  salary  
was £1600 with monthly  outgoings of £1065. Based on this, I think  it was reasonable for 
CCF to be satisfied that monthly loan payments of £165 were affordable.
I can see that CCF also carried out a credit check. Ive looked at this and Im unable to see 
anything which would  have given CCF any concerns or meant that it should have carried  out 
further checks.
Ref: DRN53835812In the circumstances I think CCF carried out reasonable  and proportionate  checks  before 
agreeing to lend the money  to Mr B. Therefore I cant say that the loan was unaffordable.
Misrepresentation of the course
Mr B says the course  was misrepresented to him and wasnt  what  he expected  it to be. I 
cant be certain of exactly what the sales person said to Mr B. But the paperwork provided  to 
Mr B sets out clearly  what he could  expect from the course.  Theres  nothing to suggest that 
any of the information in the starter pack was inaccurate. Mr B had 14 days  to cancel the 
agreement if he didnt  agree with what was written in the paperwork or if he changed his 
mind about  the course. Theres nothing to suggest  that Mr B tried to cancel within  the cooling 
off period.
Ive taken account of Mr Bs comments about  a lack of tutor support. He says he didnt 
receive any contact from the training provider and wasnt encouraged to study.  Ive looked at 
the course documents and I can see that this is an open learning course. This means  that 
students are expected to plan their own study. Theres no obligation on the course provider 
to contact students to make sure they are progressing. However, a helpline was in operation 
for extended hours on weekdays and Saturday  mornings. I can see from the information in 
the starter pack that practical training was provided at the end of each theory module at 
various geographical  locations. Based on this, and bearing in mind that this is an open  
learning course, I think the course provided has offered a reasonable level of support for 
students.
I appreciate that Mr B has lost interest  in the course  but the cooling off period has long since 
expired and theres no obligation on CCF to cancel the course just because  Mr B doesnt 
want to continue with it now.
For the reasons  Ive explained I wont be asking CCF to cancel the agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5383581