K822xcomplaint
Miss Ms complaint against Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) is that it provided her 
with poor service when  she lost her bank cards  abroad and needed emergency money.
background 
On 19 December 2018, while on holiday abroad, Miss M reported her bank cards as lost. As 
she was on holiday,  she needed access to her accounts quickly; for a new card to be sent to 
her; and for access  to cash meantime.
Miss Ms complaint concerns what then happened. As these are issues that arent in dispute,  
I wont go into detail. But instead of Miss M receiving an emergency card in 72 hours, she 
had to wait a further three days. She also had to wait too long for access  to cash   although  
this was eventually  paid into the account  of a friend she was travelling with.
Nationwide acknowledged  that it had made mistakes,  and that Miss M had to wait longer  
than she should  have for its help. It was also aware that shed had to spend time chasing 
matters up, and looking for updates.  It apologised and offered her £225 and £150 for each of 
her complaints (one for the card, and one for the emergency cash).
Miss M didnt think this was enough,  so brought her complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator  looked  at the evidence, and asked  for further information from both parties. 
She noted that there was no dispute  as to what had gone wrong, and that Nationwide 
accepted responsibility for this. She joined both complaints together, and asked Nationwide 
if it would  be willing to increase its cumulative offer of £375.  It confirmed that it was willing  to 
increase this to £475 to reflect all of the worry  and inconvenience Miss M had suffered.
This offer was put to Miss M, but she wanted  £600.  This represented half the cost of her 
holiday, which she felt had been ruined. She was also unhappy that Nationwide advised  her 
she should have  complained to its CEO,  but nobody had told her sooner.
Our Investigator  felt the offer of £475 was fair, so said she couldnt ask Nationwide  to 
increase it. 
As the parties couldnt  agree, Miss M asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that Nationwides  increased  offer of 
£475 is fair and sufficient  to resolve  matters.
I know Miss M will be disappointed by my decision, but I hope I can explain why Ive reached  
it. 
Miss Ms holiday  would  have been  significantly  impacted by the loss of her cards anyway  
regardless of what happened when she reported them  to Nationwide. Im sorry that 
happened  especially as she was away from home and over Christmas.  That must  have  
Ref: DRN58822322been very difficult. But the loss of the cards, and the impact of that, isnt Nationwides  
responsibility. Its role was to take all reasonable steps to help Miss M when she contacted it. 
And I think it did. Admittedly, things went wrong,  and there  were  mistakes and delays, which  
I accept worsened Miss Ms situation, but I think thats all already been taken into account 
and what Nationwides  already offered is fair compensation for this.
To explain; our service is an informal alternative  to the courts.  We dont make awards on the 
same forensic bases they do, and ours tend to be smaller. In addition, our role isnt to punish 
business, but rather to put a customer back into the position  they would have been in had 
the business not made the mistake/s it did. 
We dont have set amounts  that we award in cases. Each case  is assessed  on its own 
merits. We do have general  guidelines we follow, but were not bound  by those. Looking at 
other similar cases, Im satisfied that the £475  in line with what weve awarded before. 
I understand why Miss M wants the £600,  but I cant fairly say on the evidence  that either  
50% of her holiday was ruined, nor that Nationwide is responsible for all of this. I think the 
£475 is enough, and I wont be asking for an increase in this sum.
I hope Ive explained why I think this is fair to both parties. 
my final decision
My final decision it that I uphold this complaint. Its now for Miss M to decide whether to 
accept the total offer of £475 (minus any sums  already  paid) from Nationwide Building 
Society to resolve matters. I wont be asking for this to be increased.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5882232