K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited  have handled his 
motor insurance claim. Specifically hes unhappy that, because of an error made by Admiral,  
he may have to settle his personal  injury  claim on a 50/50 split liability basis.
background
Mr P was involved  in a road traffic  accident where he collided with the third partys car twice  
in a very short period of time. Admiral (Mr Ps insurer) recorded  this as two separate  
incidents  the first collision as a non-fault accident, the second collision as information 
only so no fault was attributed to Mr P. But the third party insurers,  and the solicitors  dealing 
with the personal  injury  claim, consider this to be one incident. 
The third party admitted liability at the scene, and again in a phone call to Admiral. But 
Admiral didnt tell the third party the call was being recorded in error.  This meant  they 
werent able to send  the call to the solicitors  dealing with the personal injury claim, and it 
couldnt be considered as part of the evidence. The third party  insurers  have offered to settle 
the personal injury  claim on a 50/50  split liability basis, and the solicitors  have recommended 
Mr P accept this offer.
Mr P has complained that Admirals error with the call recording  means  he may have to 
accept 50/50 split liability for the personal injury claim. Hes also unhappy that Admirals 
communication with him was poor, that they failed to contact the independent witness in a 
timely manner, and that theyre treating this as two separate incidents. 
Our adjudicator found that Admiral  hadnt  acted reasonably. She agreed that Admiral hadnt 
told the third party the call was being  recorded, which  meant the solicitors couldnt  use the 
admission of liability. She felt this prejudiced  Mr Ps personal injury claim. She also didnt  
think it was fair that this was being treated as two separate incidents. Because of this she 
recommended Admiral record the whole incident  as a non-fault  claim, and compensate  Mr P 
for any personal injury  claim shortfall (the difference between the value of the claim and what 
Mr P will receive  if he accepts a 50/50  split liability).
Admiral didnt agree with the adjudicator. Theyve  said its not for the third party to admit 
liability  this is something for the third party  insurer to do. They  also say the independent 
witness didnt see the collision, so liability was always up for dispute. They dont think  the 
third party insurer, or a judge, wouldve  accepted the third partys admission even if the call 
had been available. Because of this, they dont agree  theyre liable for any shortfall.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Ps car was struck by the third partys car, when the third party pulled out onto a road 
traffic island.  They collided again when both parties  pulled  to the side of the road following 
the first collision. The independent  witness was the driver  of the car in front of Mr P at the 
time of the first collision. It isnt disputed that the witness didnt see the accident(s). Because 
of this, I dont think that the time Admiral  took to contact the witness  had any impact on the 
overall liability issue, or that contacting  the witness earlier wouldve made any difference.
Ref: DRN52553522Ive seen that the third party admitted liability for the first collision, both at the scene of the 
accident and in a call to Admiral. The third party insurers and the solicitors  are treating both 
collisions as a single  incident, and Mr P believes this is how they should be treated. As the 
second collision happened  at very low speed, while  both parties  were  pulling to the side of 
the road, its likely that Mr Ps injuries occurred as a result of the first collision. The third party  
has admitted liability  for this collision  and Admiral have recorded  that Mr P wasnt at fault 
when settling the claim for his vehicle. Because of this I dont feel Admiral  suggesting Mr P 
accept a 50/50 split liability for the personal  injury claim is fair in all of the circumstances  
liability for the first impact, which most likely caused any injury,  has been  fully admitted by 
the third party.
I agree  that Admiral  shouldve told the third party that calls were being recorded. If theyd 
done this, the liability  call couldve been  sent to the solicitors  to be considered as evidence.  
Because of this, Admiral have prejudiced Mr Ps personal injury claim.
I agree  with Admiral  that its not for the third party to accept liability  and this is something for 
their insurers  to do  this is a standard clause  in motor insurance policies. But I also think  the 
third party admitting liability for the first collision wouldve added weight to any dispute and I 
think its likely the personal  injury claim wouldve had a different outcome had this evidence 
been made available.
Where theres been a single incident (which  is how the third party  insurers and the solicitors  
see matters)  which wasnt Mr Ps fault,  then it wouldnt be fair to say hes part responsible  for 
the personal injury  caused by this. Even if this was two incidents (which  is how Admiral  see 
matters), and Mr P wasnt  at fault for the first collision where the injury  likely occurred, then it 
also wouldnt  be fair to say hes part responsible for the personal injury.
Because of this, and because Admirals mishandling of the evidence meant that the liability 
phone call was inadmissible, I think Admiral should  make up the remainder of any personal 
injury compensation.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ps complaint about Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited.  They should record the incident as a single non-fault claim, and 
compensate Mr P for any personal  injury  claim shortfall (the difference between  the value of 
the claim and what Mr P receives  if he accepts a 50/50 split liability).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5255352