K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the quality of a kitchen  he obtained  under a fixed  loan agreement  with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF). He 
wants to reject the kitchen.
background
Mr P entered into a loan agreement with BPF to acquire  a kitchen from a retailer  in February 
2016 (this was not fitted by the retailer).  Complaints were raised about the quality of the 
kitchen shortly afterwards and the retailer  made various attempts to remedy  the situation, 
two different installation managers attended the property  since the kitchen was first 
purchased in early  2016 and another ombudsman looked into the complaint against the 
retailer. The other ombudsman concluded there were issues in respect of the finish and that 
some units  werent finished to a satisfactory standard.  The fridge door colour  doesnt  match  
the rest of the kitchen and the texture on some units was not uniform  with some having a 
rough texture. The inspector who prepared the report thought  the identified  items should be 
replaced. He did not think  Mr P had the right to reject the kitchen.
Mr P was unhappy as he felt the retailer had ample opportunity to put things right.  He 
brought a complaint to BPF. BPF said the retailer should be given the opportunity  to rectify 
the issues identified  in the other report. If this doesnt work then Mr P can reject  the kitchen.
The investigator did not think that it was fair for there to be a further attempted repair. He 
noted the supplier  had already sent two different installation managers  to the property prior 
to this report, despite these previous attempts to resolve the problems, issues with the 
kitchen remained as highlighted  by the report. He did not think rejection was disproportionate 
as the retailer  has had ample opportunities to bring the kitchen  up to an acceptable standard  
but hasnt done this.
In his view, BPF should; arrange for the removal  of the kitchen at no cost to the consumer,  
reimburse the full amount paid for the kitchen  together with interest at 8%; reimburse the 
cost incurred fitting the kitchen  with interest  at 8% (subject to Mr P providing an invoice for 
the fitting). And pay £150 compensation.
BPF did not agree an also noted that £3,351.34 of the order was for integrated  appliances 
which have been  used for two years and that the kitchen was not fitted by the retailer.  It 
offered £2,000 to settle the complaint. Mr P rejected this offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess the merits of each individual case. I take relevant regulations into 
account but my decision is based on what I think it fair and reasonable based on the unique  
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr P acquired a kitchen  and he financed this through a fixed  sum loan agreement with BPF. 
His account is now settled. Mr P raised complaints  about the quality of the kitchen shortly 
after it was supplied.
Ref: DRN57903452Under the regulations BPF can be held liable if the items were not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. BPF appear  to accept that some of the items were not of satisfactory 
quality, but thinks  that the supplier should  be given an opportunity  to replace the items.  It 
does not think  it is proportionate for Mr P to reject the whole kitchen.
The kitchen was not of satisfactory  quality when supplied. Mr P contacted  the retailer about  
the faults soon  after the kitchen was supplied, the retailer  had ample opportunity to put 
things right before the case was considered by the other ombudsman.  It did not do this. I 
therefore agree with the investigator  that it is not fair and reasonable to expect  Mr P to give 
the retailer a further chance to put things right. Two different  installation  managers attended 
and the goods were  still not put right.  In the circumstances it is fair to allow  Mr P to reject  the 
kitchen.
Whilst I note that over £3,000 were for integrated appliances that Mr P has used for the last 
two years,  these are part of the kitchen  and it is not reasonable to expect Mr P to have to 
keep these or make a deduction for their use. These  items  may not fit any new kitchen and 
are an integral part of the kitchen, which was faulty. I also note that the retailer  only supplied 
the kitchen, (and did not fit it), but as the kitchen is faulty it is fair and reasonable for BPF to 
also refund  the cost of the installation  and removal. These are costs Mr P incurred as a 
result of the faulty  product.  Mr P will have  to fund any new kitchen that he installs. Mr P has 
provided an invoice  setting out the installation costs.
The complaint has been ongoing for over 2 years and Mr P has suffered hurt and upset in 
trying to resolve this complaint. It is fair to award Mr P £150 in respect  of this. 
For these reasons I uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  is 
ordered to:
1.arrange for the removal  of the kitchen  at no cost to Mr P.
2.reimburse Mr P  the full amount paid for the kitchen and integrated appliances 
(including any interest paid, and the deposit);
3.reimburse Mr P the cost of installing the kitchen  in the sum of £1,260.
4.pay compensation of £150 for hurt and upset.
Pay interest at 8% simple  on items 2 and 3 from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Clare Hockney
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5790345