K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI)  has unfairly  voided  her commercial 
buildings insurance  and failed to pay her claim.
background
Mrs F owns a commercial  property which shed rented out for a number of years.  She 
insured her property with UKI from November 2015. The policy  was bought online and has 
been renewed since that point annually.
There was a fire at the property in May 2017  and Mrs F made  a claim on her policy for the 
repair work needed. UKI investigated the claim and in December 2017  told Mrs F it wouldnt 
pay this. It also said it had voided her policy from the point of inception because  she had 
given misrepresenting information about the property.
UKI said when the policy was taken out Mrs F agreed to its assumptions and this included:
your properties:
Do not require any repair or refurbishment  to make secure or water tight and will be 
so maintained
 
Based on its investigation into the fire claim, UKI felt the property was clearly in need  of 
repair and refurbishment  before  the fire, and indeed from before the policy  was taken out. So 
it felt Mrs F had misrepresented  the condition of her property when she agreed  to this 
assumption.
UKI said the policy terms allow it to void a policy  if information  provided isnt a true reflection 
of the facts. And had Mrs F let it know the property required refurbishment when the policy  
was taken out, it wouldnt have been able to offer her the insurance policy.
Mrs F complained about UKIs decision and was also unhappy with the time it took UKI to 
investigate the claim  and notify  her of the decision.  UKI maintains the policy has been  voided 
correctly but it felt it should  have let her know the outcome of the investigation sooner. UKI 
paid £200.00 to Mrs F to apologise for its failure  to do this.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Fs complaint and said she felt UKI hadnt done  anything 
wrong when it voided  her policy.  She felt there were clear signs  of Mrs Fs property needing 
repair works  evidenced  over a long period of time both before the policy  started and after 
too. And because UKI said it couldnt provide cover  based on the condition of the property, 
she didnt think it was fair to ask UKI to do any more.
She agreed  the delays with the outcome of its decision on this added to the distress Mrs F 
would have experienced. But she felt the £200.00  UKI had paid was fair.
Mrs F didnt  agree and said the reports showing repair works were needed to her property 
were out of date and not relevant to its condition at the time of the policy being taken out or 
the fire. But shes not provided anything to support  this.
Because Mrs F didnt  agree, the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN51875392my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Fs 
complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know  this will be disappointing 
for her, but Ill explain why.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of a number of things,  including  the relevant law and regulations. 
The relevant  laws applicable here are the Marine Insurance  Act 1906 and the Insurance  Act 
2015. These pieces  of legislation  set out the obligations on a commercial  customer  when 
making representations which are relevant  to their insurance.
Mrs F took her policy out in November 2015  and it is from this point  UKI feels  it is fair to void 
the policy. Ive taken into account  the Marine Insurance Act 1906 and the duty of utmost  
good faith on the parties  requiring the insured to disclose every  circumstance they knew,  
or should have  known,  which would  influence an insurer in deciding  whether to underwrite 
their policy.  
UKI has said that Mrs F knew, or should  have  known about the condition  of her property at 
the time she took the policy out. And that because of this, she misrepresented its condition 
when agreeing with UKIs  assumption  that the house didnt require any refurbishment  work 
to make it secure and water tight.  It isnt disputed that Mrs F agreed the property didnt 
require refurbishment  and was secure and watertight.
I think its fair though  to consider whether Mrs F knew, or should have known about the 
condition of her property.
Mrs F had been renting  her property out for some  time and in the course of this had a 
number of issues with her tenant,  resulting  in court action  between them. In June 2013 as 
part of a dispute, Mrs F had a dilapidations report completed on the property. This detailed  
water ingress within the property with a number of slipped roof tiles and internal damage.
Mrs F has said this report was out of date compared to when the policy  was taken out two 
years later and cant be taken to show the condition of the property  when the policy started. I 
agree thats  a possibility but there were serious  concerns about the condition of the property. 
And it would be reasonable to expect Mrs F to expect to see this damage put right. However,  
there hasnt  been  anything  provided  to show this happened.
In January 2016 Mrs Fs received  notice from her tenant that they wished for a claim to be 
logged for a leak in the roof of the property. Mrs F attended the property and in March  2016 
Mrs Fs solicitor wrote to her tenant, which included the following comment:
On inspection it transpired that the property  was severely dilapidated.
This comment came shortly after the policy started and nothing has been provided to show  
that refurbishment work was carried out following the dilapidations report in 2013.  Im 
persuaded by this evidence that the property was, on balance,  in the same condition  as 
when the policy was taken out in November 2015.  
Ref: DRN51875393UKI has said had Mrs F not actively agreed with its assumption over the condition of the 
property then it wouldnt have offered  to insure it. Mrs F had a duty of utmost good faith and 
should not have agreed to the assumption  that the property did not require any repair or 
refurbishment to make  it secure  or water  tight and will be so maintained. And as UKI has 
provided information that demonstrates it would not have offered a policy  in the 
circumstances as they actually were,  I dont think it has acted unfairly when voiding the 
policy.
As the policy was renewed before the claim, Ive also considered whether this would have 
made a difference to the outcome.
The claim on the policy wasnt made until May 2017  and the policy renewed on its 
anniversary in November  2016. This was after the Insurance Act 2015 came  into force which  
needs to be taken account  of here.
The Insurance Act 2015 says that before a contract  of insurance is entered  into, the insured 
must make to the insurer  a fair presentation of the risk  this is known as the the duty of fair 
presentation. It requires  the following:
a)Disclosure of every  material circumstance which the insured knows  or ought to know, 
or
b)Failing that, disclosure  which gives the insurer sufficient  information  to put a prudent  
insurer on notice that it needs to make  further  enquiries for the purpose  of revealing 
those material circumstances.
When Mrs F renewed  the policy she was provided  with a Statement  of Fact document.  This 
explained on the first page that she had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk and 
provided the following warning:
WARNING  YOU  MUST  CHECK ALL THE INFORMATION IN THE SCHEDULE AND THIS 
STATEMENT OF FACT AND  TELL  US IMMEDIATELY IF ANY DETAILS ARE 
INCORRECT, INCOMPLETE OF HAVE BEEN OMITTED. FAILURE TO DO SO MAY MEAN 
THAT YOUR INSURANCE  POLICY IS NOT VALID OR THAT WE MAY  NOT  PAY ALL or 
PART OF YOUR CLAIMS
On page two of the Statement  of Fact  the assumptions were set out. This included  under 
the section headed Your property(ies), the same assumption about the condition  of the 
property which UKI relied on when  the policy was taken out  that no repair  or refurbishment  
work was required to make the property secure  or watertight and its so maintained.
So I think UKI made it clear to Mrs F that the assumptions were important and that if any of 
the information was incorrect to tell UKI. And it gave clear information around her duty to 
make a fair presentation  of the risk and the impact  of not doing this.
The policy was renewed after Mrs Fs tenant had asked her to record a claim for a leak of 
water from the roof in January that year. It was also after she had inspected  the property and 
confirmed that it was severely dilapidated in the March of the same year. Again there has 
been no evidence  of any repair works  carried out following this. 
Ref: DRN51875394So I think Mrs F knew or ought to have  known that her property required refurbishment 
works to make  it water  tight and she should  have presented this risk to UKI, or at the very 
least not agreed to the assumption, or told UKI that the assumption  was incorrect.  So even if 
I thought UKI shouldnt  have voided  the policy from inception  which I dont  I think  it could 
have fairly  voided  the policy from the date of renewal. Im persuaded that Mrs F was aware 
of the condition of the property but didnt fairly  present  the risk to UKI. And had it been 
disclosed, UKI would  have refused  the cover from this point.
I appreciate that UKI took over five months  to provide Mrs F with its decision on this claim. 
UKI has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly but also must  not unfairly reject any 
claim. Based on all the information provided, I can see why it took some  time to reach its 
position. I feel UKIs apology and the £200.00 paid is fair for this delay and I wont be asking 
it do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5187539