K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Virgin Money  plc wrongly  recorded information about  him with one or 
more fraud  prevention agencies.
background 
Mr B applied for a mortgage with Virgin in late 2018, through a broker. Virgin turned down 
his application.  Mr B was concerned, so he asked  CIFAS, a fraud prevention agency, for a 
copy of any information  it held about him.
CIFAS sent Mr B a report which said Virgin had recorded an entry  about  him with them, in 
connection with his mortgage application.  They said the entry had been made for application 
fraud. It included details of a letter  from a letting agent which  Virgin had reported as forged, 
manipulated or stolen.
Mr B complained to Virgin.  He said he hadnt submitted any false  documents,  and he wanted 
to know what the problem was so he could  put it right.  Virgin said it had declined  his 
mortgage applications and it couldnt help him any further.
Following our involvement, the letting agent  provided further  documents and said their 
original letter  was genuine. Virgin agreed  to remove the entry it had made with CIFAS.  
Mr B said hed lost hundreds of thousands  of pounds because  of what  Virgin had done, and 
it had made  things worse  by refusing  to tell him what the problem was with the information 
hed provided.  He wanted compensation.
Virgin wasnt prepared to pay anything. It said it had relied on information provided to it by 
the letting agent, and it had no reason to have suspected that information might be wrong. It 
also said the CIFAS entry shouldnt automatically have stopped other  lenders from lending  to 
Mr B.
Our investigator agreed with Virgin, so she didnt recommend  it pay compensation. Mr B 
didnt accept that conclusion. He thought Virgin should have looked into the matter further 
before reporting  a document as false,  and asked him about it so he could sort it out. He also 
said lenders dont do further checks  when  they see a CIFAS entry  for false  documents;  they 
just say no  and this has cost him time, money, and disappointment.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin has now removed the entry  in question and given Mr B written confirmation  of that. So 
the only remaining  matter  for me to decide  is whether it should also pay him compensation 
to put things right. Its clear that Mr B feels strongly  about what  has happened. He thinks 
Virgin was far too hasty in making  the fraud entry, and it made things worse by refusing to 
tell him what the problem  was.
Lenders should have a very good reason  to record an entry  for fraud with CIFAS  and other  
agencies, and they should keep  records of the checks  theyve done before  doing so. Virgin 
Ref: DRN59572232has provided copies  of its records with details of those checks; it also provided  that evidence  
to CIFAS directly  after Mr B queried  it with them.
I take Mr Bs point that the entry could have  been  removed sooner  or never made  at all  if 
Virgin had told him what  the problem was so he could sort it out. It didnt, however, 
necessarily have to tell him  it was relying on its own investigations in deciding  the outcome  
of his mortgage applications and whether  to make reports to fraud prevention agencies. It 
was entitled to do that. 
Mr B wanted  the mortgage from Virgin in order to repay a bridging loan, and I can certainly 
see that continuing to pay the loan has cost him considerably more  than the mortgage 
payments would have  done. However, there was never any guarantee that Virgin  would 
agree to the mortgage. And Virgins records say that, besides  having concerns about the 
agents letter, it also wanted more information about  Mr Bs financial situation  before making  
its decision.
Mr B has had a more recent mortgage application  turned down by another lender.  CIFAS are 
very clear with their members that applications shouldnt  automatically be declined  just 
because an entry has been  recorded  with them. In any case, the other  lenders decision was 
made after Virgin had agreed to remove  its CIFAS entry   so I cant  fairly conclude the 
losses Mr B is claiming flow from Virgins actions.   
In all the circumstances, I think the removal of the CIFAS entry is a fair outcome to this 
complaint and, while I realise Mr B will be disappointed, I dont  require Virgin to pay any 
compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that I make no order  or 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5957223