K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt treated her fairly when 
shes been experiencing financial difficulty.
background
Mrs B has a mortgage with Halifax. In 2013  she was made redundant from her job. She 
received a redundancy payment and a lump  sum from her personal pension scheme. She 
used these payments  to live on and by 2016  they had run out. 
Mrs B has had a series of part time and temporary  jobs. Shes paid her mortgage where she 
can, but has also missed  payments and arrears  have built up. By early  2018, she was 
working and paying the mortgage, as well as paying an extra  £30 per month by arrangement 
to reduce the arrears.
Unfortunately, Mrs Bs employment  was seasonal and so she didnt get paid in the summer. 
She missed her mortgage  payment in August 2018.  She told Halifax  beforehand that she 
wouldnt be able to pay it. Halifax said she had broken the agreed arrangement  and resumed 
collections activity. Mrs B still wasnt able to pay her mortgage in September  and October. 
Then she was signed off work with anxiety  and depression and hasnt worked since.  Shes 
now in receipt of employment and support allowance in addition to a small private pension.
Mrs B complained. She said Halifax hadnt  treated her fairly or sympathetically. If it had been  
willing to agree to help in 2016 or even before then, she might  not have ended  up in this 
position at all. And since then and especially from August 2018, it was unhelpful and 
unsympathetic. It called and wrote  to her frequently. She had to speak to lots of different 
people which was confusing and distressing. She said Halifax was threatening to repossess 
her property. Now shes  receiving benefits, she can afford to start contributing to her 
mortgage again, and she wants it to consider converting to interest only or agree a reduced  
payment arrangement.
Our investigator didnt  think Halifax had done  anything wrong. So Mrs B asked for an 
ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of all the difficulties Mrs B has faced in recent  years..  Unfortunately, since 
she lost her job in 2013, there have been long periods when she hasnt  been  working  and 
hasnt been able to contribute to the mortgage, beginning after her payouts ran out in 2016  
and especially since the summer of 2018.
Mrs B says Halifax  should have done more to help her, both around this time and later,  so 
that she wouldnt have  ended up in the position  shes in now.
Ive looked carefully  at everything thats  happened, and the history of Mrs Bs mortgage.  And 
unfortunately I dont  think theres much more Halifax could have done. The root cause of the 
situation Mrs B finds herself  in is that, when shes not working,  she cant afford her 
mortgage.
Ref: DRN59806082If, as she says it should, Halifax had given her payment holidays, that would have provided 
some temporary respite. But it would  only ever have been short term  and then Mrs B 
would have had to start making payments again,  as well as catch up with the ones  she 
missed. Halifax  did on occasion agree not to take any payments, but that didnt help Mrs B.
Similarly, a reduced payment arrangement provides  some temporary  respite  but, 
ultimately, the mortgage does have to be paid.  I do appreciate Mrs B was for a long time 
trying to find more permanent employment,  without success. The purpose  of a payment 
arrangement is to provide breathing space while the borrower gets back  on their feet and 
can resume making the payments, as well as catching up with the ones missed.  And Mrs B 
hasnt been able to do that for long periods  due to the temporary nature  of the work shes 
been able to find.
An interest only concession has a similar effect   it means Halifax collects reduced 
payments for a time. But its not a permanent solution, because  Mrs B doesnt  have  a means 
of repaying the mortgage capital at the end of the term.  And, until recently,  even interest only 
payments werent  affordable for her. Her income has increased now that shes  receiving  
benefits. So an interest only concession may be more affordable in the short  term. But once 
it comes to an end, theres no certainty Mrs B will be able to resume making her full 
payments, let alone catch up with missed  ones. Even having  now received her benefits,  she 
can only offer a reduced payment  each month. And a term extension is difficult  because of 
her age.
I do understand why Mrs B finds her situation very distressing. I know its not been  easy for 
her. But the reality, unpleasant as it may be, is that it appears  that her mortgage is simply 
not affordable  for her. And while Halifax could  have put temporary concessions in place, 
ultimately I dont think they would  have made  any difference, since Mrs B still wasnt  able to 
keep up with her mortgage   either  on a reduced  basis, or once concessions  would  have 
ended.
Mrs B says her situation has improved  since the complaint has been with us now shes  in 
receipt of benefits.  Shes offered a payment arrangement short of her full monthly  payment.  
If she has a good  prospect  of being  able to return to work soon and resume  her full 
payments Halifax may be able to consider something. Thats a discussion the two of them  
will need  to have in Mrs Bs changed  situation.  And if no agreement can be reached, Halifax 
will need  to continue to treat Mrs B fairly in deciding what further action to take. But as things 
stand, and looking at whats  happened in the past, I dont think I can fairly uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN59806083Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5980608