K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained that Wayside Group Limited  mis-sold to her a guaranteed asset 
protection (GAP) policy.
Reference to Wayside includes its agents.
background
Mrs C bought a car on finance. She later complained about several aspects of the sale, 
including that Wayside had sold her a GAP  policy she didnt want. Wayside didnt think it had 
done anything  wrong. Mrs C didnt agree. One of our adjudicators began looking into the 
issue in 2014.  At that time he said that he didnt think there was enough evidence that 
Wayside had mis-sold the GAP  policy. But he later said that there was no evidence  that 
Wayside had sold Mrs C the policy at all.
Mrs C gave us evidence  that shed been sold a GAP policy and of the payments shed made 
for that. Wayside initially accepted that it was responsible for the sale of the policy.  But said 
it didnt think it had been mis-sold. But it later again said that there was no evidence that it 
had sold Mrs C a GAP  policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2020. For ease Ive reproduced my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it.  
Mrs C has also complained about  other aspects of the sale of the car and associated 
services including  the finance agreement. But in this decision Im looking solely  at Mrs Cs 
complaint about  whether or not Wayside mis-sold the GAP policy.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Cs made  a number  of points over many  years.  Ive considered 
everything on file very carefully. But in this decision I will focus on the points relevant to the 
reasons for my decision.
did Wayside sell Mrs C a GAP policy?
The first question I need to consider is whether or not Wayside actually sold Mrs C a GAP  
policy. If it didnt then I couldnt possibly conclude that there  was a mis-sale.
It might help if I explain that Wayside initially provided evidence  that Mrs C had agreed to 
buy a GAP policy. And responding to her complaint, it didnt say that it hadnt sold her the 
policy, instead it argued that the sale had been fair.
But it later said there  was no evidence on its invoices or the finance agreement relating to 
the premium for the GAP  policy. So it said that it didnt  sell it. It said that perhaps,  after 
signing the documents to say that she did want the GAP policy,  Mrs C had changed her 
mind so the GAP  sale didnt go through.
In contrast  Mrs C said that she had always said that she didnt want  the GAP policy. And that 
was why it didnt  appear  on the sale invoice, because she didnt want  it. She said it was only 
after Wayside had concluded the sale of the car when its salesperson continued to put 
Ref: DRN51832582pressure on her that she agreed to the sale. So thats why the premium  doesnt appear on 
the car sale invoice.  And she said she paid for the sale by a monthly  direct  debit payment 
separate from the finance payments for her car. 
Mrs C said that a couple of days after she bought her car Wayside sent her a validation 
certificate for the GAP policy. That shows that the selling dealer was Wayside, and she 
provided evidence  of paying  for the premium to a credit provider.  After  we put this evidence  
to Wayside it first said that its agents had sold the policy. And as such Wayside remained 
responsible for the complaint about the sale. But its recently told us that theres no evidence  
it did sell the policy.
I disagree, there is evidence that Wayside sold the policy. Wayside has documents  showing 
Mrs C had agreed to buy a GAP policy. But more importantly there  is a validation certificate, 
dated two days  after the sale, that says Wayside had sold Mrs C a GAP policy. And if it 
hadnt sold her the policy  it had no reason to send her the validation  certificate  two days  later 
which indicates it had sold it. Also, on the same day it sent Mrs C confirmation that she had 
also bought a tyre policy. And the amounts Mrs C paid to the credit  company match  the 
premiums for the GAP and tyre policy. And I find this persuasive that, on balance,  Wayside  
did sell Mrs C a GAP policy. So Ill go on to consider if it sold it fairly.
was the policy mis-sold?
Mrs C said that Wayside  initially offered her a number  of polices including  a GAP policy and 
a tyre protection policy. And shed provided  an email, dated a week before she bought her 
car, to say that she was interested in the tyre protection policy  and another  service but didnt 
want the GAP policy,  for which the premium was around £300. Wayside responded with 
quotes for the two products Mrs C was interested in. That email didnt mention the GAP 
policy.
On the day she bought  her car Mrs C signed a Duty of Care Document to say that, 
following Waysides recommendation shed bought the following products:
 75k/20k Total Loss  Gap
 Tyre Damage Insurance 
The Duty of Care Document said that Wayside had given her a policy  summary,  statement 
of price, insurance certificate  and full terms and conditions documents.
Mrs C said that she didnt  agree to buy any additional  products when she ordered the car. 
But on the day of the sale Wayside asked her to sign documents  without her realising 
exactly what they were for. And shes pointed out that given that the sales invoices and 
finance agreement  dont refer to the sale of either the tyre or GAP policies that demonstrates  
she didnt initially agree to the sale of those.
Mrs Cs account is that, after shed bought the car and signed  the finance  agreement 
Wayside continued to pressurise her into buying  the tyre and GAP  policies. Mrs C said that 
she remained interested in the tyre policy but Wayside told her that she couldnt buy that 
independently of the GAP  policy, so she had to buy both. And, when she learned  that wasnt  
the case, that was what led her to complain  that the GAP policy had been  mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN51832583In response to Mrs Cs complaint Wayside said that Mrs C has signed documents  to say she 
wanted and understood  the policy. And that none of the documents it gave  to her indicate 
that the GAP policy could  only be taken  out alongside the tyre policy. 
Clearly I wasnt  there when the policy was sold. So its very difficult for me to understand 
exactly what was or wasnt said. That means without some compelling evidence  its very 
difficult for me to conclude  whether or not the salesperson used undue pressure, or if he told 
Mrs C that in order to take out the tyre policy she also had to take out the GAP policy. And 
theres clear  evidence that Mrs C signed to say that shed received  an explanation of the 
GAP policy. But in the specific circumstances of this complaint Im not convinced  that 
Wayside did go through the sale appropriately.
In this case Wayside says that it provided copies of the documents  listed on the duty of care 
documents to Mrs C at the time of the sale. I havent  seen  copies of everything it said it gave 
to Mrs C but it has given  us a copy of the policy summary. And that is clear that the policy it 
sold is for a deferred  total loss GAP policy with a limit of £75,000 car value and a maximum 
claim limit of £20,000. And that ties up with the product  that it says Mrs C agreed to buy, 
listed as 75k/20k  Total Loss Gap on the Duty of Care document.
But Mrs Cs validation certificate  shows that the policy she actually bought has a claim limit 
of £10,000. Additionally the premium price  was £600, which  is double  the price  that Mrs C 
says Wayside had originally quoted  to her. So it seems that the policy  it actually sold her 
was different to the policy it had previously said that shed agreed to buy on the duty of care 
document. And Wayside hasnt provided any evidence to show  that it discussed  
appropriately the merits for the actual policy that the validation certificate  refers  to. So Im not 
persuaded that Wayside gave Mrs C enough  information at the time from which she could 
make an informed conclusion about  whether or not she wanted the actual GAP policy 
Wayside sold to her. So Im not convinced that Wayside  did everything it should  have done 
while selling the policy.
Also, the insurer of the GAP policy concerned has confirmed that no such  policy  was ever 
actually put in place for Mrs C. So it appears  it sold her a policy  without completing the 
administration of that. It follows that I dont think Wayside sold the policy  fairly.  And in those 
circumstances it should refund  Mrs C the premium she paid for it. And, as shes  been 
without the benefit of that money,  I think it should  add simple  interest  to its refund at a rate of 
8% a year from the date Mrs C bought her car to the date it pays the refund.
Neither Mrs C nor Wayside provided  any substantive comments in response  to my 
provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As nether Mrs C nor Wayside  objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change 
it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. I 
require Wayside Group Limited to refund  Mrs C the £600 premium she paid for the mis-sold 
Ref: DRN51832584GAP policy  and add simple interest  to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date Mrs C 
bought the policy to the date it pays the refund1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Wayside considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing  this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5183258