K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax refused her s75 claim for a 
refund of all the costs  of a holiday that she says was misrepresented  and of poor quality.
background
Miss O booked  a weeks holiday for herself and a companion with a holiday provider. She 
paid £1029 for it with her Halifax  card.
Miss O was disappointed with the location of the hotel and the type of room which  she says 
had been misrepresented  to her. Miss O was also upset that the type of food she was 
expecting was not provided. A summary of Miss Os complaints  are:
The hotel  was not in the represented  location  which meant travel and inconvenience
The room that was allocated was not on the ground floor as requested;
The food was not as expected for British tourists;
Miss O complained to the travel company who offered a refund of 25% of the 
accommodation costs.  Miss O didnt think that was enough and asked Halifax to consider 
the refund.
Halifax accepted  Miss Os claim under s75 of the Consumer  Credit Act in part. It said that 
Miss O had the benefit of the flights and transfers and so no refund for those items was 
warranted. It also said that although the accommodation she paid for was not in the 
represented location Miss O did have use of that accommodation and the facilities  at the 
hotel. It offered to refund £136.93 which was 50% of the hotel cost to reflect the 
misrepresentation about the location. It reversed the initial  credit  for the full amount of the 
holiday on Miss Os account and recognised that it should have notified her by email about  
this so it agreed to pay her a further  £50 to reflect this inconvenience.
Miss O didnt  think that was enough and she brought her complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that Halifaxs offer 
was fair. Although  the hotel was in a different location Miss O still had the use of the 
facilities. There was no evidence of the additional costs  that Miss O incurred in travelling by 
taxi to the intended destination and so she didnt  feel able to consider  these.  
Miss O didnt  agree and replied to say in summary that her holiday was not as expected and 
she should be refunded for all her additional  costs.  Miss O was upset at the time taken to 
consider the complaint and didnt  think that all of her points had been considered.  Miss O 
asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act gives  a consumer an equal  
right to claim  a refund against  the supplier of goods  or services or the provider of credit  if 
there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. My role is to 
assess whether Halifax  has handled  Miss Os s75 claim  fairly and reasonably.  
Ref: DRN54632982I have taken into account Miss Os comments about the location of the hotel. I dont doubt 
that this was disappointing for Miss O and her expectations of the hotel were not met. The 
holiday company  agree that misinformation about the location of the hotel and its proximity 
to certain destinations  was given to Miss O. I think it is fair to say that this amounts to a 
misrepresentation about this aspect.
I havent been able to listen  to a recording of the booking  call as I understand it is no longer 
available. I cant say what Miss O was told about the food. I appreciate Miss Os comments  
about the dietary requirements of her companion but I havent seen enough to say that a 
particular type of food was guaranteed.  Similarly, Miss O said that she was guaranteed a 
ground floor room. I think it is likely that this was requested and Miss O understood this to be 
part of the booking but I cant  be satisfied  that it was guaranteed. Again, I appreciate that this 
had consequences  for her companion  but I havent  seen any evidence that Miss O was not 
able to use this room.
I dont doubt that Miss O and her companion travelled by taxi to the destinations they 
originally hoped to be staying in. I also think that this was an inconvenience  for them.  I dont 
have any information  about the costs of this and I understand why it isnt available.  Without 
this information  I cant  fairly ask Halifax to refund these  costs.  
Halifax has agreed to refund 50% of the hotel costs and I think  this is fair and reasonable to 
reflect the issues with the location of the hotel.  Miss O and her companion had use of the 
flights and transfers  and stayed in the hotel for the week. I dont doubt that it wasnt  what  
was expected by Miss O and her companion, but they were  able to visit the places they had 
planned by taxi.
With regard to the reversal of the credit, this service doesnt punish businesses  for mistakes 
and so I think the £50 offered to reflect this error  is also fair and reasonable.
I do appreciate that this decision will be a disappointment for Miss O and I am sorry that her 
holiday was not what she was expecting. However, I think  the payment made by Halifax  is 
fair and reasonable and so I cant ask it to do any more.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5463298