K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc didnt  offer her appropriate  support when she 
experienced a period of ill health. As a result, she says it recorded a missed payment on her 
credit file that she says has had an impact on her financially.
background
Mrs H held a mortgage with Barclays. In 2015  she had a period  of ill health, which meant  
that she wouldnt be able to work  the additional hours  she usually did. So Mrs H expected  
her income to drop while  she recovered  from her illness. She asked Barclays to extend the 
term of her mortgage to reduce her monthly  payment.  But she says it told her that it couldnt  
do that as her mortgage wasnt  in arrears. 
Mrs H says that instead Barclays said it wouldnt collect  her payment that month.  She says 
she was reassured  this wouldnt affect  her credit file  but she says that Barclays went on to 
record the missed payment on her credit file. 
Barclays said that Mrs H did arrange a repayment plan in 2014 and 2015   but it wrote to her 
at that time explaining that it would  report any information about an arrangement  to credit 
reference agencies.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said that it wasnt fair to make 
a customer wait until they were in arrears to offer help  and that if Barclays  had properly 
assessed Mrs Hs income  and expenditure details it would have been clear  the mortgage  
was unaffordable.  So the investigator said that Barclays should have extended the term and 
if it had done so then Mrs H wouldnt have missed any payments to her mortgage.
The investigator said that Barclays should refund any fees it applied  in respect of the missed 
payment in 2015 and interest  with interest,  remove any negative  credit file markers as a 
result of the missed payments and repayment plan and pay Mrs H £250 for the trouble and 
upset she was caused by this matter.  
Barclays didnt accept  what the investigator said. It made a number of points,  including:
In 2014, when the arrangement was set there  was no evidence  of financial difficulty. 
There appears to be a misunderstanding  that she would  need  to make a manual 
payment following a rate switch.
In 2015, before the account  fell into arrears, Barclays  referred Mrs H to a department 
that could consider  a term extension. It doesnt have any notes regarding  the application. 
Barclays says it then obtained details of Mrs Hs income and expenditure  including  
food  and as that showed the mortgage  was affordable  it would not offer a term 
extension as a concession.
If the income and expenditure  form showed  the monthly payment was unaffordable  then 
it could have explored a term extension. But there would need to be a plan to clear the 
arrears and an arrangement marker  would still be placed on the credit  file. 
Mrs H responded to say that she thought Barclays should refund the early repayment charge 
(ERC) she paid. She said, in summary:
Ref: DRN59956132It was clear that she couldnt afford  the mortgage payments when she became ill, yet 
Barclays wouldnt help until she was in arrears.
She was trying to be financially responsible and not fall into arrears  and avoid adverse 
information on her credit file. So she was left with no choice but to move  to another 
lender.
If she had waited  until she fell into arrears, Barclays could still have turned down the 
term extension  and it would  have been  more difficult to move her mortgage to a new 
lender. 
Barclays has never shown that it properly considered her ill health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules, there is no requirement  for Barclays to offer any concessions  to 
customers who arent in arrears. But its unlikely to have acted fairly and reasonably if it does 
nothing to help if a customer approaches it and asks for help  even if they arent already in 
arrears.
The 2014  arrangement that Mrs H had with Barclays isnt in dispute.  Mrs H is concerned 
about any adverse  information recorded  by Barclays in 2015, when she missed  a payment.
Mrs H took a sensible and reasonable approach  when she first approached  Barclays. She 
explained that she had been treated  after being diagnosed with a serious illness  and needed 
to reduce her payments  while she had reduced income for a few months.  That is supported  
by Barclays own notes  of the phone calls that Mrs H had with it in 2015.
I can also see that a term extension was explored.  On 19 August  2015, Barclays  wrote  to 
Mrs H to say that it couldnt  offer her a term extension as it only  offers  terms extensions  to 
customers who are experiencing  financial difficulty.  It went  on to refer Mrs H to its Home  
Solutions Direct Team. But Barclays own notes say that it had already referred Mrs H to this 
department in July 2015.
I dont consider that Barclays has treated  Mrs H fairly. It declined the term extension as it 
didnt consider the mortgage was unaffordable.  I dont  consider the assessment of the 
income and expenditure was sufficiently thorough. Although the form showed an excess of 
just over £100 a month, it didnt include any figures for food/housekeeping,  clothing or 
entertainment/leisure. I dont think it was reasonable for Barclays  to assess  affordability 
based on the information recorded on this form as some essential expenditure wasnt 
recorded. It seems likely that if it had gathered that information that it would have  showed  
that the mortgage was unaffordable.
In view of that, and what Barclays knew about  Mrs Hs circumstances, I dont consider it was 
reasonable for it to do nothing  or wait until Mrs H was in arrears  before offering any further 
help.
If Barclays had fairly  considered Mrs Hs circumstances it ought to have given more 
consideration to the term extension. This was a legitimate option available  for it to offer 
Ref: DRN59956133borrowers who were in arrears. It was also an option that it could offer to borrowers who 
werent in arrears under the relevant  rules   it didnt have to check affordability where the 
extension didnt extend into retirement. 
I would note, however,  that Mrs H would have been  61 at the end of the agreed term  so 
even if Barclays had extended the term, its likely to have only been extended for a short 
time. Otherwise it was likely to have  gone into her retirement.  That wouldnt necessarily 
mean that Barclays couldnt extend  the term for longer.  But if it had done so, it might  have 
had to do a different, more thorough assessment of what was in Mrs Hs best interests. So 
its not clear that even  if it had been agreed, that the term extension would have been long 
enough to make a significant different to Mrs Hs payment.
In any event, Im not satisfied that Barclays dealt with Mrs H fairly  in this case. It applied its 
procedures in an overly  rigid way. And that has caused Mrs H distress  and inconvenience  at 
what was already a very difficult time for her. I agree with the investigator that Barclays  
should pay her £250  to reflect this.
Bearing in mind what Ive already said, I think its likely that Barclays  could have reached an 
agreement with Mrs H that meant  she didnt  miss a payment,  if it had dealt with her fairly. 
But even if it couldnt  reach an arrangement, Im not persuaded that it communicated with 
Mrs H in a clear, fair and not misleading way. Mrs H has been  consistent in what  she has 
told us. Looking at all of the evidence, I think it is likely that she was told that Barclays 
couldnt help unless she was in arrears.  I think if Barclays  had explained  things in clearer  
way, and no arrangement could  be reached,  Mrs H would have taken steps  not to miss a 
payment in view of the importance of this matter to her.
So I think Barclays should remove any adverse information it has recorded in respect of the 
missed payment and subsequent arrangement in 2015. Id note, that I couldnt see any 
adverse information  on the report Mrs H has given us. Barclays should, however, check the 
information it has provided to all credit reference agencies.  
I also cant see that Barclays has applied  any arrears  fees in relation to the missed payment 
in 2015 or arrangement. But if it has it should  refund  them,  with interest.   
I note Mrs Hs comments about  why she thinks the ERC should be refunded. But while  I 
understand her reasons for remortgaging to a new lender,  that was her decision. It wasnt as 
a direct result of the way that Barclays  treated  her in 2015. So I wont  be asking it to refund 
it. 
As Ive said,  its not clear  there was actually any adverse information recorded by Barclays in 
respect of the 2015 missed payment. Im not aware  of any other  way that another lender 
would know about  the conduct  of her mortgage  with Barclays, as Mrs H has suggested. The 
only mechanism for that is through the information recorded with credit  reference agencies.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  Plc should:
Pay Mrs H £250 for any trouble and upset.
If it has recorded any adverse information  on Mrs Hs credit file in respect of the 2015 
missed payment and arrangement, it should remove it.
Ref: DRN59956134If any fees were charged on the missed payment and during the arrangement plan that
followed, these  fees should be refunded  with interest at the mortgage  rate until the fee or 
the mortgage was repaid and then interest at 8 % simple per year to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5995613