K822xComplaint
Mr S, represented by a third party, complains that the car he acquired through  a hire 
purchase agreement  (HPA)  with Blue Motor Finance Ltd wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. He 
had the car repaired and wants  his costs refunded. 
Background 
Mr S entered into a HPA with Blue Motor Finance in August  2018.  On his way home he 
experienced issues with the car. The dashboard displayed a number of warning messages. 
Mr S contacted a roadside recovery company which found a number of issues. The car was 
taken to a garage  for further diagnostic testing and a number of faults  were  identified. Mr S 
raised his complaint and that while waiting  for a response he undertook  the repairs. Mr S 
wants to be refunded the costs of repairs along with his legal fees, costs of being  without the 
car, and compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused through this 
process.
In its final response letter  dated January 2019, Blue Motor Finance upheld  Mr S complaint 
regarding the quality of the car he acquired. It said the cost of the inspection would be 
refunded and asked for evidence of the cost of recovery and the reason for, and cost of, the 
dyno engine test. 
In regard to the repairs  undertaken, Blue Motor Finance noted these werent authorised  and 
says it received invoices  but not the clarification it asked for or the initial inspection report 
showing the repairs required. 
Blue Motor  Finance says when Mr S raised his complaint  it discussed  this with the retailer  
and on 14 September  2018, Mr S was told rejection had been  accepted.  It says Mr S didnt 
tell it he was arranging  repairs to take place  and arrangements were made to collect the car. 
It says that Mr S failed  to mitigate his losses and that had it been aware of the desire to 
repair a courtesy car could have been arranged.  It didnt agree to refund Mr S legal costs.  
Our investigators initial view said that Blue Motor Finance had acted reasonably by 
accepting the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and offering rejection. She said that it was 
reasonable that, following  Mr S decision to have repairs carried  out, Blue Motor  Finance 
would ask for the additional evidence it had before refunding any further costs.
Following our investigators initial view, additional evidence  was provided regarding  the costs  
Mr S had incurred. Our investigator issued a further view recommending that Blue Motor  
Finance refund Mr S £3,127.40 as this was the amount that was evidenced as being  paid by 
Mr S for the repairs. She then further  recommended that Mr S be refunded the equivalent  of 
47 days of payment (along with interest) to reflect the time he was without his car due to the 
need for repairs (25 August 2018  to 29 September 2018 and 1 October 2018 to 
13 October 2018). 
Blue Motor  Finance agreed to refund  the cost of repairs and the 47 days loss of use plus 
interest. 
Mr S didnt accept this recommendation and his representative said that additional to the 
agreed refund he should also have his cost of legal fees covered (noted as £792) and be 
paid £500 compensation  for the stress and anxiety this issue  had caused.
Ref: DRN52266912As a resolution hasnt  been agreed, this case  has been passed to me an ombudsman  to 
issue a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S entered into a HPA to acquire a used  car. Under the regulations,  Blue Motor  Finance  
can be held liable if the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at the point of acquisition. In this 
case Mr S experienced a number of issues with the car straight  after acquisition and Blue 
Motor Finance accepted that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality. The outstanding issue is 
what the appropriate redress is in this case.
When Mr S raised his complaint he initially mentioned rejecting the car. Given the evidence  
provided I think this would have been a reasonable outcome. I can see from the timeline 
provided that Mr S asked  to reject the car on 31 August  2018  and says he was contacted  to 
say this was a matter  for the retailer on 7 September.  He then had the car transported  to a 
garage for investigation.  Blue Motor Finance wasnt aware of this at that time and contacted 
Mr S on 14 September  2018 saying, subject to inspection and documents,  it would be 
accepting the rejection  of the car. Mr S says he told Blue Motor  Finance at this time that the 
car had been  sent for investigation and no issues were raised. Blue Motor Finance then 
arranged for the car to be collected  but Mr S had agreed to the repairs by this time.
I note the comments made  by Mr S representative about him believing his complaint was 
being passed between the retailer and Blue Motor  Finance and so he decided to have the 
repairs undertaken. However I find that Blue Motor Finance acted  in a timely way to accept 
Mr S rejection request. It is reasonable that it would take some  time to contact the retailer  to 
discuss the issue and looking  at the timeline  I dont find it caused any unnecessary  delay. 
Had the rejection  been agreed this complaint  would  have been resolved in September  2018.
Mr S agreed to repairs and while I note the comments  by Blue Moor Finance about these not 
being authorised,  given  the issues with the car, I find it reasonable that Mr S is refunded for 
these. Evidence has been  provided and all parties have accepted  a refund amount of 
£3,127.40. Given  Mr S made the payments for these repairs a number of months ago I think 
it fair that he should  also receive interest  on this refund.
Mr S was without his car for 47 days while it was being investigated and repaired. Again 
Blue Motor  Finance has agreed to refund  Mr S his payments for this period along with 
interest, I find this reasonable.
The outstanding issue relates to Mr S request for his legal fees to be refunded and that he 
be paid compensation of £500 for his distress and inconvenience. I have considered both of 
these claims but I do not find in this case that Blue Motor Finance is required  to cover these 
costs. I say this because Blue Motor Finance took action to resolve  this complaint when it 
was raised by agreeing to the cars  rejection. It then accepted the costs of repair could be 
covered subject to certain evidence being  provided. This wasnt  provided and Mr S chose  to 
seek legal  representation. While Mr S is, of course,  entitled to make  this choice I do not find 
that Blue Motor Finance should be required to cover this cost. 
I note the comments about  the time taken  but Blue Motor Finance did request evidence in its 
final response letter and this wasnt provided.  Had this been discussed  at the time and Mr S 
Ref: DRN52266913provided the reports required this issue could have  been resolved  sooner. Therefore, while  I 
appreciate this complaint has taken time to resolve,  based on the actions that have been 
taken by Bleu Motor  Finance I think the fair resolution is for the repairs costs  and 47 days  
loss of use to be refunded  along with interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that Blue Motor  Finance  Ltd should, as it has agreed:
refund  Mr S the costs of the repairs which have been evidenced and agreed to be 
£3,127.40; and
refund  Mr S 47 days of rental to reflect the periods of time he was without his car 
(25 August 2018 to 29 September 2018 and 1 October 2018 to 13 October 2018). 
Both of these refunds should  be subject  to  8% simple interest  from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5226691