K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  has declined her home  insurance  claim for
storm damage.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 21 December 2018, a copy  of which is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I was intending 
not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  against  Ageas. 
I invited all parties to let me have any further comments before I reached  a final decision.  
Ageas has responded to the provisional decision to confirm it has nothing  further  to add. 
Mrs C responded, confirming she accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
As neither party have  provided my with any additional comments  to consider, Ive reached 
the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision  and for the same  reasons. 
Mrs C accepted my provisional  decision,  but Ageas asked for a final decision.  On the basis 
neither party  has asked me to consider any additional evidence, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I outlined in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52624662extract decision dated 21 December 2018
Mrs C complains that Ageas  Insurance Limited  has declined her home  insurance  claim for
storm damage.
background
In early 2018, Mrs C lodged a claim with Ageas  when  she discovered a water leak in her
property. Ageas declined her claim. It accepted  there had been a storm when the damage
was noticed, but it didnt agree the damage had been caused by the storm.
Mrs C asked a roofing company to inspect her roof. It reported it had removed ice and snow
from the drain outlet of the internal gutter at the top and front of the house. It said the
subsequent rain water  ran up the flashing and dripped  into the ceiling below,  but commented
the roof was in a good  state of repair. The roofing company provided two further reports;
the first was dated in the summer, and stated  they had replaced three roof slates  which were
obstructing the outlet of the internal gutter. The roofer said the internal damage  to the ceiling
was caused by a break in the slates on the roof, which enabled  water to penetrate the
internal fabric of the roof. The last report specifically stated  they had replaced one cracked
and two broken slates two weeks after the first inspection.
Ageas also sent a building inspector out to investigate the damage. He concluded  that snow
was filling the gutters on the roof were blocked  and think these  have been backed up under
the freezing conditions along with one or two slates broken. Ageas said,  while there were
high winds in the area, there  was no evidence the wind caused the damage to Mrs Cs
property. And while there was some snowfall  recorded it concluded this, in itself, wasnt
sufficient to have caused  the damage either. Ageas said water entered the property due to
the melting snow, but said there was no damage caused externally, so it wouldnt meet the
claim.
Mrs C was unhappy with this response and asked us to look into her complaint.  Our
investigator looked at what both sides had said. And she noted Ageas building  inspector
had reported the damage hadnt been caused by storm conditions.  Therefore, she didnt
think Ageas  had acted unfairly  by declining the claim  for storm damage.
However the investigator did think that Ageas should  consider  Mrs Cs claim as an escape of
water. She thought Mrs Cs policy  said it would  consider claims for an escape of water from,
or frost damage to, fixed water tanks,  apparatus or pipes. The investigator said, taking the
everyday definition  of apparatus or pipes  into consideration, a gutter could amount to either
of these, and Ageas  should  settle the claim  on this basis.
Ageas disagreed, and the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where there is a dispute about  what
might have happened, Ill reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words,
what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider
circumstances.
The issue for me to decide here is whether or not I consider Ageas decision to decline
Mrs Cs claim was fair and reasonable.
When we investigate  a complaint about an insurance claim for storm damage,  there are
three main issues  we need to consider:
Ref: DRN526246631. do we agree  that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have  occurred?
2. is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm would typically  cause?
3. were the storm conditions the main  cause of the damage?
Were likely to uphold the complaint is the answer to all three of these  issues is yes.  But if
the answer to one of more of the questions is no wed be unlike  to uphold the complaint.
Ive checked Mrs Cs insurance policy and I can see it defines a storm as:
strong winds  of over 47mph which  will sometimes be accompanied by rain, snow or hail 
Ageas noted there were  wind speeds of 53mph around the time Mrs C noticed the damage.
This is supported by the weather reports Ive looked at. So Im satisfied the answer to
question one is yes.
I then went on to consider if the damage to Mrs Cs property was consistent with storm
damage. Mrs Cs roofer says he routinely inspected the roof of the property, and did so most
recently in late 2017, when the roof slates were found to be in good condition. Both expert
reports conducted  in early 2018 found the guttering was blocked by snow and ice.
The first report from Mrs Cs roofer said the guttering was designed so that, even  if it was
blocked, any excess water  would run down the outside  of the property. I havent seen
anything that suggests  the guttering  didnt operate in this way when it was blocked by the
snow and ice found by the experts. For this reason, I dont think  the guttering  is responsible
for water entering the property.
Ageas independent  expert didnt  think there had been  a storm at the time water started
entering the property. They recommended the claim  be declined because  they considered
the internal damage  caused  was due to a gradually  operating cause .
Mrs C provided an invoice from her roofer in early 2018. That report  didnt specifically state
they replaced  any roof tiles during the visit  this was only specifically stated in the last
invoice. In the first invoice  (dated at the time of the event) the roofer stated he cleared ice
and snow from the drain outlet of the internal gutter.  I also note the roofer commented the
roof was in a good state of repair. The later reports from Mrs Cs roofer stated that three roof
slates had been broken   two were reported as broken and one was cracked. Ageas
independent expert also hadnt been able to say how the slates were damaged. But its
broadly agreed  by both experts that the roof slates were broken.
So I think the answer to question  two is yes for the external damage to Mrs Cs property
being consistent with damage  a storm would  typically  cause.
Weve been provided with pictures of the inside of Mrs Cs property, which show there was
significant damage. I acknowledge the damage and subsequent  repairs claimed for could be
consistent with damage a storm might typically cause. I think it is possible the roof slates
were broken in the storm, and rain water or snow could have  entered  the property through
the broken slates.
However, I dont agree  there is sufficient  evidence for me to be able to say it is more  likely
than not, that the storm conditions experienced were the main cause of the damage to the
roof, and to the inside  of Mrs Cs property. Im mindful  that the local weather reports  at the
time that identified high winds, but not excessive  levels  of rainfall or snow to support the
level of damage  shown in the photographs.
Ref: DRN52624664I note the first report from Mrs Cs roofer didnt specifically  mention  they had replaced any
roof slates during their first visit in early 2018. In fact, they commented  that the roof was in a
good state of repair.  And that Ageas expert considered the damage was most  likely
caused by a gradually  operating cause. So, while I accept there was some damage to the
roof and property, I dont  consider the evidence  provided  enables me to say it is more likely
than not the storm conditions were  the main cause of the internal damage. So I think the
answer to question three is no. And its for this reason that I am not recommending that
Ageas needs to meet  Mrs Cs claim  for the internal  repairs.
I think  the roof slates were  most likely  to be damaged in the storm. But the invoice for
replacing the roof slates provided by Mrs C in late 2018 is for less than the excess she would
have needed to pay under her policy. The cost of replacing the slates  was less than this. So
Im not recommending  Ageas should refund this cost either. For the reasons Ive set out, I
dont think Ageas needs  to do anything more in terms of carrying out the repairs Mrs C has
asked for.
COPY
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5262466