K822xcomplaint
Mr K is complaining about the way Automobile  Association Insurance Services  Limited 
(the AA) sold his car insurance policy and additional  products  alongside it.
background 
The facts  of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont set them out in detail. 
But in summary,  Mr K says that the AA mis-sold  his car insurance policy and two additional 
insurance policies   excess protection and No Claims  Discount Protection (NCDP)  
alongside them. He says they were  mis-sold  for a number of reasons, but in particular 
(although not the only reasons) he raised  the following points:
1.He didnt receive a policy summary for the car insurance policy;
2.It wasnt made clear that the insurer would use its approved repairer  network to repair 
his car in the event of a claim;
3.The AA charged  a disproportionate administration  fee of £28;
4.The sales advisor gave incorrect information  about what would happen with his excess 
protection in the event of an accident  being found to be 50/50 split liability;
5.The AA gave mis-leading advice over the scale of discount provided on his premium 
given he had a nine years No Claims  Discount (NCD);
6.The excess protection insurance policy  was provided by a different insurer  who was 
based in Gibraltar;
7.The policy terms removed endorsement 34 which sets out the impact having more  than 
one claim will have on his NCD;
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. And he raised the following points:
policy summary
He thought that the AA was likely  to have sent the policy documents.  But, even  if it hadnt,  
he also said that the call handler had explained how to access  the policy documents  through 
the online portal.
The adjudicator also said that insurers are only required  to highlight significant and unusual  
terms in the policy summary. He said it wasnt unusual  that insurers use an approved 
repairer network and he didnt think it was a significant term. So he didnt think  the AA 
needed to highlight this.
mis-sale of the excess protection policy
The adjudicator thought  that the AAs call handler did give some incorrect  information in 
respect to what happens in the event of an accident  being found to be 50/50 split liability.  
However he said that once Mr K challenged this, the call handler  did some more  research 
and subsequently provided  the correct information.  So he didnt think Mr K had lost out 
because of the initial misleading  advice.
The adjudicator also said that it was not unusual for additional policies to be underwritten  by 
different insurers and for these insurers to be based outside of the UK.
NCD
Ref: DRN50796462The adjudicator thought  that Mr K was advised during the sales  call that on average he 
would receive a 40% discount for have nine years  NCD. But he acknowledged  that the 
average was not something Mr K wanted  to know.
He said that the policy  documents issued  did correctly show  that Mr Ks nine years NCD 
would provide him with a 67% discount and he also explained that this was confirmed by an 
e-mail from a manager at the AA. So the adjudicator didnt think the AA had mis-sold the 
NCDP. He also thought  that if Mr K was happy to purchase the product at a 40% discount he 
would also been  happy to accept the product with a 67% discount.
However, the adjudicator accepted that Mr K would have suffered a degree  of distress and 
inconvenience from the contradicting information provided. He said that if Mr K hadnt 
queried the NCDP its possible that the explanation of the NCDP would have  been  
ambiguous.
The adjudicator also recognised that the terms of the policy  initially contained an 
endorsement saying  that his NCD was protected if no more  than two claims were made over 
a three  year period, but this was later taken  out. He said this could make the terms 
ambiguous, but he said that Mr K hadnt lost out because he hadnt had to make two fault 
claims.
But given the ambiguity,  the adjudicator thought the AA should  pay Mr K £75 in 
compensation for this.
administration charge of £28
The adjudicator didnt think this was an unfair charge. He said that the AA was entitled to 
charge a fee to cover  its administration  charges. He took into account the fact that Mr K 
didnt think this charge  should include an element  of profit. But he didnt  think  it did. He said 
all brokers are aware of the administration  charges.  He also said this service isnt able to 
consider whether the insurer is aware of what the brokers  are charging as administration 
charges. 
The AA accepted the adjudicators findings. Mr K didnt agree with the adjudicator and raised  
a number of points that he didnt  agree with. And he ultimately asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same  conclusion as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons.  So I uphold  this 
complaint. 
Mr K has raised a number  of complaint points that he wants this service to consider.  But I 
also think a significant  number of points are that, due to concerns he has over the sale of the 
policies or the way theyre worded, he might lose out in the future. I think it firstly  would be 
helpful if I explained what this services role is. The Financial Ombudsman Service is not the 
regulator of the financial  industry. Its not our role to fine and punish  a business where things 
go wrong. And we dont  award punitive damages. We are an independent dispute 
resolution service and our role is to look to put things right where things have gone wrong. 
Ref: DRN50796463We cant take into account what might happen  in the future  but look to put things right where 
the consumer  has actually lost out.
Ive taken into account everything Mr K has said and I appreciate that Mr K will want a 
detailed response  addressing all of his points. But I dont intend  to respond in detail to the 
complaint hes raised. This doesnt mean I havent  considered them. I acknowledge that 
Mr K appears to feel strongly  about this situation.  But Im not required to comment on each 
and every point. No discourtesy is intended  by this; it simply reflects the informal  nature of 
the ombudsman  service and my role in it.
The adjudicator has provided a detailed  response to Mr K which Ive summarised above and 
Ive come to the same  conclusion he has. So Ive not reiterated  the points again  here.  But 
Ive upheld the complaint for the same reasons. But the issue for me to decide  is whats a 
fair remedy to put things  right.  
Ultimately, while I dont  dispute that the AA could  have  been clearer in certain  aspects, Mr K 
hasnt given me anything to specifically show that hes lost out financially due to anything 
thats gone wrong. And, as I said above,  I also cant award compensation for something  that 
might happen in the future. Mr K would be able to raise a new complaint if he subsequently  
does lose out, but I cant  consider it in this decision.
I can see that Mr K has had to communicate  extensively on this issue  with both the AA and 
this service. Im satisfied that its likely  that this has caused him some  distress and 
inconvenience. But I think the £75 in compensation the adjudicator recommended is fair. So 
I require the AA to pay this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr K £75 in 
compensation. I dont  require  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5079646