K821x#15complaint
Mr W is complaining  about the amount Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  has paid for his car 
after he claimed on his car insurance policy.
background
Mr W leased a car on a hire agreement  and insured it through Aviva. His car was stolen so 
he claimed for the loss on his car insurance policy. Aviva said it would settle the claim by 
paying the finance provider the cars market value less the excess. And it valued the car at 
£33,060, but it deducted 20% because it said the car was owned by the finance provider and 
the finance provider had said it didnt  pay VAT on the car. So it paid the finance  provider 
£27,550.
Mr W disagreed  that Aviva should deduct  VAT as he said VAT is not payable on a second-
hand car. Aviva reviewed  the matter  and it still thought it was required to deduct VAT. But it 
said that as a gesture of goodwill it would increase value exclusive of VAT to £27,741.67  
the amount the finance provider said was outstanding on the finance agreement. It also 
recognised that it could  have responded to Mr W quicker than it should  have  done  and it 
offered him £125 in compensation.
Mr W still disagreed  with Aviva and suggested that Aviva increasing  the valuation,  without 
him asking  it to do so, was in effect an admission  of fault. So he asked this service to step in.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020  upholding  the complaint. And I said the 
following:
Aviva sets out that it was required to reduce the financial settlement by 20% because the 
finance provider  didnt pay VAT when it first acquired the car. Mr W doesnt agree with this 
because he says that VAT isnt payable on a second-hand car. And he highlighted that the 
terms of the policy  makes no reference  to deducting VAT.
I think the key issue  here is what the terms of the insurance policy say if Mr Ws car is lost, 
stolen or damaged it will pay to replace it. They also say that the most it will pay will be the 
market value of the car at the time of the loss. And they define market value as the cost of 
replacing your vehicle with one of the same  make, model, specification  and condition.
So under the terms of the policy, Aviva was required to pay Mr W the cost of replacing  his 
vehicle. I understand  Avivas comment that, if it didnt reduce the settlement by 20%,  the 
finance provider  would  be claiming  the VAT back from it twice. But I dont agree  with it. I note 
that the finance provider  has reduced  its settlement figure to account  for the fact that it paid 
the VAT.  But the reality is the cars  market value  at the time of the loss was £33,060. And 
this was Avivas liability  on the claim.
The amount  outstanding on the finance  was £27,550, which Aviva paid to Mr W, which  left 
£5,318.33 outstanding on the settlement figure.  The issue I have to decide is whether Aviva 
was required to pay the balance to pay this to Mr W.
The terms of the policy say if we know that your vehicle is still being paid for under a hire 
purchase or leasing agreement we will pay any claim to the owner described in that 
agreement. Our liability under this section  will then end for that claim.
Ref: DRN58282412The terms of the finance agreement dont  limit Avivas liability  to the amount required to 
settle the agreement. So I think the strict  interpretation of the policys terms set out that 
Aviva should  have paid £33,060 to the finance  provider and, under terms of the finance  
agreement, the finance  provider would refund the difference  to Mr W. But I do acknowledge 
that, if Mr W received the full £5,318.33,  he would  in effect be profiting from the insurance 
claim  given the deposit he paid for the car was £3,994.92 and he wasnt  the owner of the 
car  which is contrary to the standard principles of insurance. 
But Mr W has lost out in this claim.  When taking  out a lease agreement,  its common  for the 
consumer to have  to pay a large sum upfront. And where this happens the consumer can 
lose out when  the car is written off early  into the lease agreement, as the initial upfront 
payment is non-refundable. In this case Mr W paid nine months of lease payments up front.  
Mr W has to pay a fixed amount for the lease hire over the lease period. So the size of the 
deposit has a direct impact on the amount that Mr W had to pay in monthly payments during 
the lease term. Had he paid a smaller upfront payment he wouldve had to pay more in 
monthly repayments over the lease term. This would also mean  that he wouldve  paid less 
towards the total amount  owed over the total lease when the car was stolen. In effect, this 
means that Aviva has had to pay less because of the fact that Mr W paid a larger upfront 
payment.
And I said that I thought that Aviva  should do the following to put things right:
I think  a fair outcome in this case is that Aviva should  pay Mr W a proportionate amount of 
the deposit based on how long was still remaining on the lease agreement when the car was 
stolen. To work this out, I think Aviva  should  pay the difference between  what hes actually  
paid (taking into account  the initial upfront payment) and the pro-rata cost of what the lease 
wouldve cost Mr W up to the date of the incident.  To work this out, Ive looked  at the 
following:
Mr W took possession of the car on 6 September 2017 and the contract was for 36 
months (1,096 days).
He made  an initial  payment  of £3,994.92 and was then due to make monthly payments 
of £443.88 for the remaining 35 months.
The total cost of the lease over 36 months was £19,530.72.
Cost per day £17.82.
Number of days from start of agreement until the car was stolen  391.
Pro-rata cost of what the lease wouldve cost Mr W  391 x £17.82 = £6,967.62.
Given Mr W only had the car for 391 days out of a total of 1,096 I think  he should  only be 
liable for that portion of the lease. 
Mr W had actually paid £9,321.48 towards the agreement by the time the car was stolen. But 
I think the proportionate cost of the agreement for that time was £6,967.62. So I think  Aviva 
should pay the difference (£2,353.86) to Mr W. I also think  it should  pay 8% simple  interest 
per year from the date it settled the claim until he gets it back.
Ref: DRN58282413As I said above, under the terms of the finance Aviva is required to pay any settlement to the 
finance provider.  But Im also aware that the terms of the finance  agreement sets out that, if 
the amount received from an insurance  settlement exceeds all sums payable  on termination, 
the finance provider will refund the excess to Mr W. So in this case  I think the fair and 
reasonable thing to do in these circumstances is for Aviva to pay the money payable to Mr W 
directly.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. Aviva didnt agree  and it provided  a detailed 
response to explain  why it didnt do so. But, in summary, it said that it thought I had 
fundamentally misapplied both insurance  and contract principles. 
It said that Mr W had entered into two separate contracts here  a hire agreement with his 
finance provider  and an insurance policy with Aviva.  It said that, if Mr W is going to lose out 
as a result  of the terms of his finance agreement,  then it thinks this is a matter Mr W should 
take up with his finance provider. And it doesnt think it should be held liable for this. 
It said that, if Mr W had owned the car, then it agreed that the market value may have  
included VAT. But it said that it wasnt his car, he only had possession  of it as a bailee in 
contract under his hire agreement. It said that the car was a revenue generating asset of a 
VAT registered business. So it remained  of the belief that this should  be reflected in the cars  
valuation.
It said that its contractual requirement was to clear the outstanding balance on the finance, 
which is what it did. It doesnt think it should  be required to pay anything further.
Finally it said that, even if it accepted the rationale for my decision, it didnt think it was fair 
that I had required  it to pay compensatory interest.  It said that it had settled the claim within 
a reasonable period of time and had always responded to contact from this service in a swift 
timeframe. So it thought  it was unfair  that it was being penalised for the time it had taken for 
an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Avivas comments into account. But I dont think it has raised anything new from 
what it provided before.  So I dont  see any reason  to reach  a different conclusion to the one I 
reached in my provisional decision. And Im satisfied that my provisional decision does 
explain in detail why I reached the conclusion I did. So Im not going to reiterate my findings 
again. But I will comment on some of Avivas  points where I think  further  clarification may be 
useful.
I note Avivas comment that, if Mr W is unhappy  with the way his finance  agreement was 
created, he would need to raise this with the finance company. But I dont agree. It was fair 
for Mr W to choose to pay a high upfront payment  to reduce the amount  he has to pay on 
credit. And I think its unfair that he loses out as a result of this. 
The purpose of an insurance policy is to look to put the consumer in the position theyd be in 
where they suffer loss or damage arising  from an event thats covered by the insurance 
policy. 
Ref: DRN58282414I remain of the belief that when assessing  the cost of the agreement,  its fair to look at the 
total amount payable  over the term of the agreement. The reality is that, in paying a higher 
upfront payment, Mr W reduces the monthly repayment. I think its a fair conclusion  that a 
proportion of the initial upfront payment goes towards hiring the car. But, even if Im wrong  
on this, I think its the fair and reasonable thing to do. So I still think its fair that the amount 
Mr W paid upfront should be taken into account  in the way I set out in my provisional  
decision.
The terms of the insurance policy set out that Aviva is required to pay the market  value  of 
the car, which it defines as the cost to Mr W of replacing the car. They dont say that its 
limited to the outstanding balance on the finance.  And, as I said in my provisional  decision, 
the strict interpretation of this sets out that Aviva  should have paid £33,060 to the finance 
provider. But, to do so, would result in Mr W profiting from the insurance  claim, which  I agree 
with Aviva is contrary to the principle  of insurance. So I remain of the belief that the way I set 
out that Aviva should have settled this claim is fair.
I note that Aviva thinks its unfair that I think it should  add compensatory  interest. And Ive 
considered and understood its comments in this respect. But, ultimately, I think it didnt pay 
Mr W what it should have done when it settled the claim. And I think its unfair that he loses  
out as a result. So I still think it should  pay 8% simple  interest  on the amount  I think it should 
pay him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  And I require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr W £2,353.86. I also think it should pay 8% simple interest per year (less 
tax if correctly deducted)  from the date it settled the claim  until he gets it back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5828241