K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  about furniture she bought with credit provided by Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited (trading  as Barclays Partner  Finance),  and about  being charged a fitting  fee.
background
In 2013 Ms B bought  new bedroom furniture, which was paid for with a loan provided by 
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF). On the advice of the surveyor, her original choice of 
furniture was upgraded to a slightly more expensive set, from a different retailer,  but at the 
same price. The price difference was £349,  but she was still charged the original, lower price  
for the furniture, as agreed.  The fitting fee had been included in the original price,  but 
because a different  brand  of furniture  was fitted,  she was charged a separate  fitting fee, 
which she says was £399. She complained  about  that fee, because she said the surveyor  
had specifically told her that she wouldnt have to pay it. She also complained about the 
quality of the furniture. In 2014 the retailer  offered to repair the furniture. But Ms B declined: 
she wanted to reject the furniture and unwind the contract. The retailer would not agree to 
that, since it said it had the right to attempt a repair first.
At the same time, Ms B asked BPF for redress under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. BPF rejected her initial claim, because she had not allowed the retailer to repair  the 
furniture. She claimed again in 2015, and BPF again  rejected her claim and referred her to 
the Furniture Ombudsman.  She went back to BPF again in 2018, and this time BPF paid her 
£25, but still declined to do more because  she had repeatedly refused to allow the repair. 
BPF referred  her to our Service, and in 2019 she brought this complaint to us.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that it had been reasonable to 
charge the installation fee, because Ms B had received better furniture for the original price. 
He agreed with BPF that Ms B was not entitled to reject the furniture, because the retailer  
had been entitled to attempt to repair it first, and by then she had had the furniture  for over 
five years.  Ms B asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that the retailer was  and still is  entitled  to attempt to repair  the furniture before 
Ms B can be allowed to reject it. That is the effect  of the Consumer Rights  Act 2015.  For that 
reason, I think BPF was entitled  to reject her claim for compensation so far as the quality of 
the furniture was concerned. I do not uphold  this part of this complaint.
However, I am currently minded to uphold Ms Bs complaint  about  the fitting fee. I will 
explain why. Since  she recalls that it was £399  and no alternative figure has been given, 
I will accept her figure.
I have seen the surveyors report, which was signed by Ms B on 7 September  2013. 
Immediately above  her signature, it reads Change in Price  (increase/decrease) £0.00. So 
I think its more likely than not that the surveyor did assure Ms B that the superior furniture 
Ref: DRN50778492hed recommended would be supplied and installed  at the same  price that was quoted her 
original choice of furniture.
I think that is the best evidence of what was agreed, because it is a contemporaneous  
document and it was prepared by the surveyor. But I am reinforced  in that opinion by an 
entry in the customer  contact notes, dated 26 June 2014, which  reads Explained we should 
have increased  price but we didnt.
Since the surveyor told Ms B that the superior furniture would be substituted for her original 
choice for the same  price, then to charge  her more than that was a breach of contract, for 
which BPF would  be liable. I dont think that charging her a fitting fee, on top of the price of 
the substitute furniture (which remained  the same), when the fitting fee had been  included in 
the original price of the furniture, is fair just because the substitute furniture was more  
expensive than her original choice was. Ms B hadnt agreed to pay extra for this furniture.
There is another entry in the contact notes, dated,  10 October 2014, which explains the 
decision not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. It says (in part) that if Ms B had been a customer  of 
the second retailer from the start, then the fitting fee would have been  included in the price. 
I am not persuaded by the logic of this, because Ms B had not been  a customer of the 
second retailer from the start. She had nevertheless been promised their furniture for the 
same price  as the original  retailers furniture. So she hadnt expected to pay anything more.
I have not seen an agreement, signed by Ms B, that she would pay a fitting fee, in addition  to 
the price originally quoted, instead of paying  the fitting fee as part of the originally quoted  
price. So I do not think  she agreed  to pay more than the total cost she had originally agreed.
I am therefore currently minded to uphold this complaint in part. Subject to any further 
representations I receive  from the parties   I will order Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to pay Ms B £399. (I will not award interest  on this sum.) If Ms B still owes  BPF 
money, then BPF may off-set this award  against her debt to it.
responses to my provisional  decision
BPF agreed  with my provisional decision. Ms B did not. She provided emails  which  showed 
that she had contacted the second retailer a number of times in early  2014, but had received 
no response until late March, when the retailer apologised  for not responding to her sooner 
and said it had arranged  for an inspection of the furniture on 10 April. In subsequent emails 
Ms B said that date was not convenient, due to her work. In May she said that as the 
furniture had not been repaired, she wanted to reject it. (Evidence  already provided shows 
that she declined  a second  visit which had been booked for June.)
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 23(6) of the Consumer Rights Act gives the retailer a reasonable time in which to 
repair defective goods, before the consumer is entitled to change  her mind and ask to reject 
them instead. Given the second  retailers lengthy delay in addressing Ms Bs concerns, 
I might  have  been persuaded that the Act had not been complied with and that BPF should 
have upheld her section 75 claim for breach  of contract,  even  though in June 2014  she did 
not allow the repair to take place if this evidence had been provided  to BPF in July 2014. But 
Ref: DRN50778493it does not appear  that BPF saw these emails. So I cannot conclude  that BPF reached  the 
wrong decision when  it rejected  her claim in 2014.  As far as it knew, the retailer  had offered 
to repair  the furniture and Ms B had declined.
However, even if I took a different view about that  or if Ms B actually did forward those 
emails to BPF in 2014, and they just have not been  included in BPFs file for some reason  
I still dont think it would  be a proportionate  remedy to require BPF to allow  the furniture to be 
rejected for a full refund now, over six years  after it was installed. Ms B first complained to 
our Service  about this matter in 2015,  and it would have been a proportionate remedy  back 
then, if she had persuaded one of my colleagues to uphold her complaint at the time.  But 
she did not pursue  her complaint then,  and although I appreciate  that this was because she 
was depressed at the time,  I still dont think that means it would be fair to allow rejection and 
a full refund  now.  She has had the use of the furniture for six and a half years.  Allowing 
rejection, instead  of repair, after having it for so long, because  of a delay of a few months  in 
arranging a repair, would not be reasonable.
So for each of the above alternative reasons,  I do not think  that BPF was wrong to reject  
Ms Bs claim under section 75, except in relation to the fitting fee.
my final decision
My decision  is that I order Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to pay Ms B £399.
If Ms B still owes Clydesdale money,  then Clydesdale may off-set this award against her 
debt to it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020. But my final decision concludes  this Services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
its merits.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5077849