K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited  (HC) refused to cover  the cost of damage 
to her car caused  by an inherent fault.
background
In March 2018 Miss C acquired new car funded by a fixed  sum loan with HC and a deposit  of 
£1,000. Two months later the car was left parked on a gentle  incline and Miss C returned  to 
find it had moved and had been damaged. The AA attended and its report states that "Hand 
brake not holding  excessive  playing handle  adjusted cable so handbrake holds now".  Miss C 
took the car back  to the dealer and it couldnt  find any fault.
The car was repaired  and the cost was met by Miss Cs insurance company. Miss C 
complained to HC and it said that the dealer had found no fault.  It also referred to the 
handbook for the car which advised that when  parking the user should put it in first gear as 
well as engaging  the handbrake.
Miss C then brought her complaint to this service  where it was considered  by one of or 
adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. He thought it clear from the AA report that 
there had been  a fault with the handbrake. He noted  the dealership hadnt been  able to find 
a fault, but the AA mechanic had already repaired it. He didnt think  the hand brake should 
fail on a car which was only two months old.
He also noted  the advice  in the manual that the car should be put in first gear, but he thought 
it reasonable to presume  the hand brake  would hold the car when parked on a slight  incline 
as was the case in this matter.
He thought Miss C should be paid the full cost of the repair of £ 4,065.61, refund two weeks  
of her payments and compensation  of £150. The repair, less £600 excess, had been paid for 
by the insurance  company which said that if it was repaid Miss Cs future premiums  wouldnt  
be affected.
HC didnt agree and said Miss C had failed to follow the operating  instructions and so any 
failure shouldnt  be the responsibility  of the supplier.  It also expressed  concern that the 
money may not reach the insurance  company if paid to Miss C and she could have an unfair 
benefit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this service is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. HC is also the supplier of the goods under this type 
of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN50941402The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I think it worth stating  what I consider  to be an obvious point; a handbrake shouldnt  fail on a 
car that is only two months old. While I note that nothing showed up on the pre delivery  
inspection and the dealer  couldnt find a fault when the car was returned, I am satisfied that 
the brake failed.  I have  to rely on the evidence of the independent  AA mechanic who 
inspected the car after the accident and he concluded the brake was faulty.
I have considered the advice in the manual  that the car should be engaged in first gear. I 
note the Institute of Advanced Motorists takes  the view that there is little need to leave a 
manual vehicle in gear when parked and unattended if the parking brake is working 
effectively. If Hyundai cars require the gear to be engaged when it is not seen as normal  I 
would expect it to be drawn to the consumers attention rather than simply mentioned in a 
lengthy manual.  Miss C says the dealer didnt draw her attention to this requirement. 
She had every reason to presume  the hand  brake  would work and I believe the cause of the 
accident was the faulty  brake.  However,  I dont think it appropriate that the full cost be paid 
to Miss C. It is reasonable that she recover the £600 she paid and the balance be paid to the 
insurance company.  Miss C has agreed to this proposal.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Hyundai Capital UK Limited: 
 to cover the cost of the repair subject  to her agreeing that £3,465.01 be paid direct  to the 
insurance company  and £600 to her.
 refund two weeks of her monthly payment
 pay compensated of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5094140