K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC acted  fairly and unreasonably when dealing  
with a mortgage. She wants matters put right.
background
Ms P wanted to take over her ex-husbands mortgage with Barclays, following an order  from 
a court  regarding their divorce, and felt that it acted  unfairly and unreasonably. Ms P said 
that its service wasnt good enough,  it had breached confidentiality as correspondence  was 
sent to her ex-husband, it hadnt  updated  its records and its staff was rude and abusive. 
Ms P also said Barclays failed to do what it agreed to do, failed to confirm  that the mortgage  
was redeemed, and had told her she had been removed from the mortgage and had taken 
out a sole mortgage instead. Ms P was also unhappy about the handling of her complaint.
Ms P complained to Barclays. It said that Ms P had been trying to take over her ex-
husbands mortgage following a divorce, and that despite being authorised to deal with the 
mortgage, its staff did initially refuse  to deal with her as she wasnt  the account-holder  
(forcing Ms P to then have to remind the staff to check the notes on the system). The 
redemption statement was sent to her ex-husband as he was the account  holder.  Barclays  
also accepted  that the complaint had initially been  set up under the ex-husbands name, not 
Ms Ps.
Barclays said that its service hadnt  been  good enough, nor had its handling of the 
complaint. It confirmed that staff was being  retrained. It apologised for its staff not reading 
the notes and failing to notice that Ms P had authority  to discuss  the mortgage, and how one 
member of staff dealt with her in particular. Barclays explained that it was necessary to it to 
issue a redemption statement in order  to allow a mortgage to be redeemed; it set out the 
mortgage details  in full. It confirmed that it had taken the required action to release its 
security but Barclays couldnt complete the release  with the Land Registry as there were 
prior pending applications which  needed to be completed first. It also explained that it was 
for Ms P to take action  to transfer the property into her sole name. Barclays offered  £600 for 
the trouble and upset its failings had caused  Ms P. It also paid £100 and sent wine as 
compensation for it had dealt with the complaint.
Ms P complained to us and said Barclays  had ignored court orders. The investigators view 
was that Barclays  wasnt  required to give Ms P legal advice about transferring a property  into 
her name and the process  involved,  but had told Ms P to see a solicitor. She agreed that 
Barclays hadnt given  good customer service, but said there was no data breach as the ex-
husband was entitled to information about  his own mortgage. The investigator said Barclays 
shouldve answered  Ms Ps letters and done  more,  but she thought its offer,  combined with 
the £100 already paid and the wine, was fair and reasonable,  taking  into account Ms Ps 
upset and health issues.
Ms P disagreed. She said that the investigator  hadnt considered  the law, codes of practice  
or that Barclays hadnt told her to get legal advice. Ms P remained of the view that Barclays  
had breached the court order  and wanted  more compensation. The investigator  said that 
shed considered the law, codes and the evidence, and shed listened  to the call where 
Barclays told Ms P to consider going  to see a solicitor. She reiterated that the court  order  
didnt require Barclays to take action. 
Ref: DRN54198042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its relevant for me to point out that orders of the Family Court arent binding on lenders, who 
arent parties  to that litigation. Lenders are entitled  to apply their own lending policies and 
refuse to agree  to a transfer of equity or a mortgage;  a full application is required. Its also 
unusual for a mortgage to be wholly transferred from one name  to another  name (its 
common to add or remove names); normally the mortgage is ended and a new one taken  
out. It isnt simply a matter  of changing a name; the original  party  to the mortgage  is released 
from legal  liability to pay the mortgage  while the new party becomes liable. Lenders are 
required to check the new party can afford  the mortgage. 
Ms Ps court order doesnt order Barclays to transfer  her ex-husbands mortgage into her 
sole name. The court ordered Ms P to take action in respect of the mortgage payments, 
which isnt the same as ordering  Barclays to take action; I cant say it has ignored a court  
order. The order saying that Ms P should  pay the mortgage doesnt mean Barclays  must  let 
her take over the mortgage.
And as the mortgage has now been  paid off in full, it has ended and cant  be transferred. I 
also dont think its unfair or unreasonable for a lender to require that a full application  to 
transfer a mortgage is made, or to say that its Ms Ps responsibility to ensure that the 
property is registered  into her sole name as its for her benefit that this happens, not 
Barclays. Such a change would always be required, even if the mortgage had been 
transferred in any event.  Its also correct  for Barclays  to note that until the other  pending 
applications are dealt with by the Land Registry,  the removal  of its security cant take effect, 
but its confirmed  in writing to Ms P that the mortgage has been paid in full so theres no risk 
of repossession. 
But its accepted  by all the parties that Barclays did act unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with Ms P. It didnt  answer  all of her letters  (though until it had authorisation from the 
ex-husband, it couldnt do so); the staff kept saying that Ms P wasnt authorised  to deal with 
the mortgage when she was; its evident that its staff didnt deal with Ms P well or give 
service  Ms P was unreasonably refused  a meeting with a mortgage  advisor  and was told 
to apply online. But I dont think confidentiality  was breached by sending the redemption 
statement to the ex-husband  it was the statement for his own mortgage. And Ms P didnt 
make a full application to transfer the mortgage or take legal advice, despite being told (as 
shown by the calls) to consider doing  so.
Complaints handling  isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service,  though  we 
can (and will) look at whether a business  has generally treated a consumer fairly and 
reasonably. I note though that Barclays has already paid £100 and sent wine to Ms P and its 
later offer of compensation also refers to this point.  Im therefore going to look at Barclays  
conduct generally.
Ref: DRN54198043Theres no evidence of financial loss and theres no evidence Ms P wouldve been able to 
get a mortgage,  so I will only consider whether the offer of compensation for trouble and 
upset made  is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. Barclays has offered another  
£600. Money never truly compensates  for trouble and upset  and compensation can only be 
awarded for the issues where Ive found Barclays to be at fault.  Bearing  in mind Ms Ps clear  
upset and frustration,  which  I accept is likely to be amplified by her health issues and the 
difficulties generally  of a divorce, I think another £600 compensation for her trouble and 
upset is more than fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I think  Barclays couldve 
done more to explain matters more clearly  to Ms P and that the court  order was irrelevant as 
far as Barclays was concerned; this led to Ms P becoming further upset.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Ms P whether to 
accept the offer of another £600 from Barclays  Bank  UK PLC.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept  or reject my decision 
before 24 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5419804