K820x#14complaint
Mrs E is unhappy about the settlement figure  offered to her by Acromas  Insurance  Company 
Limited (Acromas) following a road traffic accident.  She thinks  the amount offered  by 
Acromas doesnt fairly reflect the value of her car before the accident. 
background
In March 2018, Mrs E took out an annual  car insurance policy  with Acromas.  She was 
involved in an accident on 28 January  2019.  Her car was hit by a third party  1 who in turn 
was hit by third party 2 from the rear. The accident  was recorded as non-fault  and declared  
Mrs E disagreed with both Acromas approach to assessing the value of her car and the final 
settlement figure. She thinks £2,000 is a more acceptable amount and made a complaint to 
the insurer. 
Acromas said it had used trade  guides  to assess the value of the car, and declined  to further 
increase the settlement offer. So Mrs E brought  her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  She 
thought it was fair for Acromas to rely on the trade guides and she didnt recommend that it 
needed to take any action. 
As Mrs E still disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the settlement 
offer made by Acromas is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And specifically, Ive looked at section 2 
which explains how claims will be settled when theres a loss or damage to the car. 
Subsection 1 says:
The Insured Car
The Insurer  will pay for loss of or damage to the Insured Car its accessories (excluding 
audio, satellite navigation  and communication  equipment)  and spare parts  kept in or on the 
Insured Car or in Your private garage by (at the Insurers discretion):
repairing
or
replacing
or
paying in cash the amount of the loss or the damage.
The terms and conditions  further say the maximum amount payable will be the market  value  
of the insured car. And market value is defined  in the policy  booklet  as:
 The value of the Insured  Car and its accessories at the date of accident or loss.
Its common for insurers to use the trade guides and they have an established methodology 
for estimating the value of used cars.  In situations like this, the value can only ever be an 
estimate. 
Ref: DRN55870932I think the fairest way of valuing Mrs Es car is to use the standard  industry  guides.  Theyre 
based on databases of actual sales of comparable models, adjusted for the features and 
mileage of Mrs Es actual car. I think the guides  based on actual sales are more likely  to be 
accurate than adverts for sale  which are based on the sellers starting price, not the actual 
price paid when  the advertised car sells (if it sells at all).
Ive checked and confirmed the figures Acromas  obtained. The settlement amount is within  
the range  of the prices  suggested by the trade  guides. So I think that is a reasonable 
approach.
Mrs E says that the settlement  offer isnt a fair reflection of the value of her car and its not 
fair for Acromas to rely on trade guides  in these circumstances. She has highlighted some of 
our services  guidance to support this and has provided adverts of cars similar to hers. Ive 
considered both of these.  I can see the adverts shes  provided arent an exact reflection of 
the age or mileage  of her car but she says she no longer has evidence of the used cars that 
were advertised and were  similar  to hers. The values of the cars advertised are £2,200  and 
£2,480. I therefore  understand why Mrs E believes the value of her car would  be £2,000 
based on the evidence shes provided.  
Weve also looked  at the car sales adverts  and found similar used  cars that are for sale and 
the advertised prices  of those are £1,190 and £1,195 (this was the closest  to Mrs Es car). 
The second  car advertised was for a 07 number plate and with a mileage of 87,961. 
So based  on all the evidence I have available, Im not persuaded the amount offered to 
Mrs E is unfair or unreasonable. While  Mrs E believes the offer made by Acromas isnt, in 
her view, the market  value, adverts  are generally useful when a vehicle isnt covered by the 
trade guides or is a limited edition. As Acromas  has been able to provide a fair valuation  and 
in accordance with the trade  guides and I think this is appropriate.  
Overall Im satisfied Acromas fairly arrived at the valuation  of £1,313 for Mrs Es car which  it 
used in settling  her insurance  claim.  And whilst  I understand this will be disappointing  for 
Mrs E, I dont  think it needs to pay her anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint against Acromas  Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5587093