K821x#15complaint
Mrs D is unhappy because AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has avoided  her car insurance  
policy, meaning they are treating it as if it never  existed, because she failed to declare 
modifications that had been made  to her car.
background
In 2012, Mrs D took out a car insurance  policy with AXA and it has renewed  every year up 
to, and including,  2018. In March  2018, Mrs Ds niece, who is a named driver  on the policy,  
was involved in a car accident. 
AXA accepted the claim and the car was written off and considered  a total loss. AXA initially 
offered Mrs D a settlement amount of £2,300 (subject to policy excess). Mrs D told AXA she 
believed the amount wasnt enough  because the car had been fitted with a body package  
and alloy wheels. 
As a result, AXA withdrew  the settlement amount and said Mrs D had not declared these 
modifications to the car and had she done so, they wouldnt have offered her the policy in 
the first place. In May 2018, Mrs D was notified  of AXAs  intention  to avoid the policy  for the 
period of 2018 to 2019. AXA said they would refund the years premiums  and Mrs D will be 
liable for the costs following  the claim which included the hire vehicle and vehicle recovery.
Mrs D complained to AXA and said she made  them aware of the body package when she 
first purchased the policy and she repeated this when she added  her niece as a named 
driver in 2017, so she felt it wasnt fair for them to avoid the policy. 
Mrs D referred  the complaint to our service  and our investigator upheld the complaint 
because they felt AXA had failed to provide  enough evidence of the questions asked at the 
time of the policy renewal. They felt AXA hadnt  provided sufficient evidence they wouldnt 
have offered insurance to Mrs D, had the modifications been declared.  The investigator also 
said AXA should  increase their settlement amount for the car to £2,575 and pay Mrs D £200 
compensation. 
Mrs D broadly accepted  the investigators  opinion  however she says the body package  is not 
a modification but a BMW  factory fitted  option which was part of the car when  she purchased 
it and she made AXA aware of this. AXA maintain they had provided  evidence to show  the 
policy wouldnt have been offered  had the modifications been known to them. 
Mrs D has since  recovered the car from salvage and restored it at a cost of £2,700. She 
says she doesnt  want AXA to avoid the policy and she wants  them  to settle  the claim. She 
also believes  she should be able to keep the salvage value. 
I issued a provisional decision in December 2019 upholding Mrs Ds complaint and I said:
avoidance of the policy
AXA said Mrs D didnt give them accurate information about the details of her car. Where 
such allegations are made, this is referred  to as a misrepresentation. The relevant law 
which applies to these  circumstances  is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012  which I will refer to as CIDRA. 
Ref: DRN53187112Firstly, I must consider  whether Mrs D has made  a misrepresentation by giving  incorrect or 
incomplete information to AXA. At the time of renewing the policy  online,  AXA asked Mrs D 
to check the cover and make sure all the details were correct, this included  information about 
the named drivers and the car. AXA has relied  on Mrs Ds information to be accurate and 
answered to the best of her knowledge.
AXA said they consider the body package and the alloy wheels fitted to Mrs Ds car to be 
modifications and they wouldnt have offered her the policy  had they been declared.  
On Mrs Ds renewal  document,  I can see AXA has asked whether her car has been  modified 
in any way. Records show Mrs D answered  yes to this question. Because  of her answer, it 
then lists the types of modifications AXA accepts. She then answered no when asked  if the 
car had bene  modified in any way other  the modifications listed  as acceptable. This list 
included manufacturer  optional extras (including tinted glass) fitted by the manufacturer  or 
the approved  dealer at the time of the original  purchase.
Mrs D said when she bought the car in 2004,  it had already been fitted with the body 
package and alloy wheels. She said she was told by the car dealer that these were  
manufacturer factory fitted options.
AXAs claims handler says the brand of the body package is approved by the manufacturer  
of Mrs Ds car. Having carried out some  research I can see this brands body package can 
be fitted by the manufacturers dealerships. On balance, I believe this is what  happened with
Mrs Ds car. Overall  AXA hasnt done enough  to show  the modifications werent 
manufacturer optional  extras fitted by either manufacturer  or the approved  dealer at the time 
of the original purchase. On this basis, AXA hasnt shown Mrs D provided incorrect 
information  so Im satisfied there  wasnt a misrepresentation. 
AXAs approved  list of modifications also includes alloy wheels less than £1,000 in value. 
AXA has said the value  of the alloy wheels  is over £2,000. This might have been the value in 
2001 when fitted. But considering AXA valued the car at the time of loss at over £2,000, Im 
not persuaded the alloy wheels were  worth more than £1,000  at the point  Mrs D took out the 
cover. So again, Im not satisfied AXA has shown theres  been  a misrepresentation.
Even if I accept there had been a misrepresentation - for AXA to avoid the policy it would 
need to show  there  had been a qualifying misrepresentation. This would mean AXA would 
need to show  Mrs D failed  to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. 
Ive already set out the questions regarding modifications. I think  Mrs D took reasonable care 
when answering  these questions. She said yes the car had modifications then she said no 
to the question about whether it had been modified in any way other than the modifications 
listed as acceptable.  Considering what she thought about the modifications  that they were 
manufacturer fitted  I think she answered to the best of her knowledge and belief. It doesnt 
seem that she was unsure about  the history of the modifications. So I think  she took 
reasonable care when  answering these questions.
On this basis, I am satisfied a misrepresentation wasnt made by Mrs D and AXA are not 
entitled to avoid the policy. So it will need  to reinstate the policy  and settle Mrs Ds claim.  If 
AXA has already  refunded  the policy premium to Mrs D, this should be re-charged.  AXA 
should also remove any adverse information on internal databases or the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange  (CUE) which may relate  to the cancellation of Mrs Ds insurance 
policy. AXA will also need to deal with any claims against Mrs Ds from other  third parties  
including other  drivers, car recovery and hire vehicle companies.  
Ref: DRN53187113settlement of the claim
As I dont agree  AXA is entitled to avoid  Mrs Ds policy  and it should  be reinstated, AXA 
must now settle the claim and put Mrs D as close to the position  she wouldve been in had 
they not made the error.  To put things right, AXA should pay Mrs D the cost of the repairs of 
the car  which Mrs D says was £2,700.  In line with the policy  terms, AXA can deduct  the 
excess and salvage  costs from this amount and it is reasonable for them  to do so.
I understand Mrs D felt it was important  to keep the car. She had to make  arrangements  to 
get the car fixed  independently at her own expense. Mrs D also said she was unable  to use 
the car for a number  of months, between March  2018 and September  2018, while the 
dispute was ongoing. So I believe AXA should also pay £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs D.
response to my provisional  decision
Mrs D and AXA were invited to comment on the above findings and both accepted  my 
provisional decision. However I note Mrs Ds comments that she collected  her car from the 
scrapyard in August  2018 and it remained in storage while the dispute  was ongoing with 
AXA. Mrs D also said she arranged for the car to be repaired and it was returned  to her in 
September 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN53187114my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, it is my final decision to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
To settle  the complaint, AXA Insurance  UK Plc should:
-If already avoided, AXA should  reinstate Mrs Ds insurance policy for the year 2018 
to 2019;
-re-charge the policy premiums if theyve been already refunded (these  can be 
deducted from the settlement amount); 
-settle the claim in line with the rest of the terms of the policy;
-to pay the cost of the repairs to Mrs Ds car, £2,700  (subject to policy excess and 
salvage costs) plus 8% simple interest  from the date of loss to the date of settlement;
-stop actions  to recover the costs from Mrs D relating to the car recovery and hire 
vehicle; 
-remove any adverse information  on internal databases or CUE which may relate to 
the cancellation of Mrs Ds insurance policy; and
-pay £300 for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5318711