K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with Tesco  Underwriting Limited. Mr and Mrs W think  Tesco  has 
unfairly declined  a claim under their buildings insurance policy  for damage caused  by an 
earthquake.
background
Mr and Mrs W were carrying out redecoration work  to one of their bedrooms  when  they 
noticed the walls and floor were  damp.  They arranged for the flooring to be removed and on 
inspection, they found the concrete floor had cracked and the damp  proof membrane was 
ripped. So, they submitted a claim under their buildings insurance policy.
Tesco appointed  a loss adjuster. Mr and Mrs W sent in photos  of the damage along with a 
report from their builder. This said the cause of the damage was thought to be an 
earthquake which occurred several years earlier. The builder  highlighted that hed repaired 
the same  damage  in Mr and Mrs Ws lounge a couple of years before this damage was 
found. Mr and Mrs W had made a claim to Tesco for the lounge and Tesco had accepted it 
and dealt with the claim  as earthquake damage  at the time.
Mr and Mrs W have  explained the reason  they hadnt noticed  this damage at the same  time 
as the lounge was because the bedroom  floor had been covered in bitumen, specific  floor 
tiles, underlay and carpet. It wasnt until they started  redecorating  that bedroom that it 
became apparent it had also been  affected.
This new claim for the bedroom was declined by the loss adjuster. The adjuster said the 
damage didnt  look typical of that caused  by an earthquake and it was more likely to be long 
standing damage.  Mr and Mrs W raised  concerns with the decision. They  didnt feel it had 
been properly  investigated. They said when the loss adjuster did visit to do an inspection, he 
just walked around the bedroom and then left.
Tesco said the damage couldnt  be linked  to the earthquake. It said it was more likely to be 
as a result  of a lack of support to the propertys concrete slab thats caused the damage and 
cracking over a period of time. It said this isnt an insured event under the policy, Tesco said 
it wouldnt pay for the repairs.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and brought a complaint  to this service. They said their 
previous claim for damage to the lounge was exactly the same damage as this. 
Mr and Mrs W said they felt the loss adjuster had decided to decline the claim without 
properly inspecting the damage  or conducting  any tests. They said the adjuster claimed 
parts of the floor were  hollow which  they said wasnt true. The adjuster had claimed  there 
was no crack damage to the structure of the building which  Mr and Mrs W confirmed was 
also incorrect. Finally, Mr and Mrs Ws driveway had collapsed a couple of years before  and 
the water  company had said that the pipe mightve  been damaged  by the earthquake. 
Mr and Mrs W want Tesco to pay the cost of the repairs to their bedroom of approximately 
£3,500.00.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the damage  wasnt  consistent with an 
earthquake. And she didnt think it could be claimed  for under the policy.  Mr and Mrs W 
didnt accept this. They confirmed external crack  damage had occurred and been 
successfully claimed for with a previous insurer after the earthquake. Mr and Mrs W asked 
for their complaint to be passed  on to an ombudsman  for a decision.
Ref: DRN55206092my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said:
Mr and Mrs W are very unhappy about  the claim being declined.  Theyve  pointed  out the 
lack of investigation and when an investigation  did take place it was factually incorrect.  They  
highlighted that the bedroom  floor damage was exactly the same as the previously claimed 
for damage  in the lounge next door.  Mr and Mrs W confirmed there had been cracking to the 
property walls and that a claim was successfully made for that damage too. Mr and Mrs W 
feel that all of this key evidence has been  ignored.
Theres no dispute that there was an earthquake in the area several years ago. Tesco 
accepted the claim for the lounge floor damage just a couple of years prior to this claim for 
the bedroom floor. Mr and Mrs W said they didnt notice any damage to this floor at the time 
of the original claim and that it only came to light when they uncovered it during  
redecoration.
Mr and Mrs W have  provided details from their builder who assessed  and repaired the 
damage in both the bedroom and in the successful lounge claim a couple of years prior. He 
said the same occurred  in the lounge adjacent  to this front bedroom when I was employed 
to dig out the damaged concrete floor and lay a new concrete floor.  It was assessed  the 
damage to the lounge  floor was caused  by the earthquake. I think  thats clear.
Mr and Mrs W have  also provided emails  from the water company which  comments on a 
broken underground drainpipe that they found  when repairing their driveway. This wasnt 
discussed at the time the driveway was repaired but when Mr and Mrs W contacted  the 
water company it said, pot drain is well known  to be vulnerable to lateral ground 
movement. And whilst  it is not possible to categorically say that the damaged  pot drain 
uncovered in 2014 occurred as a result  of the earthquake, there is every possibility that the 
earthquake may have contributed to this damage, especially when you consider the cracking 
that also occurred. I can understand why Mr and Mrs W felt this was useful evidence to 
produce.
In this claim the loss adjuster said, the slab was cracked and hollow to the front section and 
there were no signs  of cracking to the superstructure. He concluded  that there  were no 
signs to prove that the cracking or hollowness of the concrete  slab was related  to the 
earthquake. And that the movement  and cracking was more indicative of the compaction of 
the fill materials to the front wall where hardcore would have been backfilled at the strip 
foundation and slumped  over time. This would  have the effect of leaving sections of the 
concrete slab unsupported resulting in dropping and cracking. He commented that cracking 
and hollowness  to a floor such as this would not occur in isolation of extensive  cracking  to 
the superstructure should it be related to earthquake tremors.
Mr and Mrs W did update Tesco to confirm  that the loss adjuster details were incorrect on 
two points. They said the floor wasnt hollow in places; and theyve provided photos as 
evidence. They also said the superstructure was damaged, they made a claim to their 
previous home insurers after the earthquake occurred for cracking  to the external  walls. This 
was accepted and repaired. Despite this information, Tesco  has continued to rely on the 
report and decline the claim.
Ref: DRN55206093The lounge and bedroom  are located  to the front of the property. And this is where most of 
the cracking occurred.  The two rooms  are separated by a porch, which was also affected  
and was repaired at the same  time as the lounge under the accepted claim for earthquake 
damage. I think theres a clear link between the damaged areas. And it seems unlikely that 
the damage to the two rooms would  be down to two entirely different, totally separate  
causes, in such close proximity to each  other.
Mr and Mrs W highlighted that there was crack damage to the building, and this was 
successfully claimed for through their previous insurer. Mr and Mrs W also provided  
comments from the water company in relation to the driveway and pipe damage.  All of this 
damage occurred  after the earthquake.
Tesco were satisfied that the original claim for the lounge damage  was as a result of the 
earthquake, And I dont think its been  able to deal with the evidence put forward  by 
Mr and Mrs W to clearly show why the damage  to the adjacent  bedroom was entirely 
different. The builder who did the work  is clear that the damage is the same. And theres no 
reason for me to doubt this. Mr and Mrs W have been able to cast doubt on the evidence  
Tesco has relied  upon. I dont think Tesco have really dealt sufficiently with the points 
Mr and Mrs W raised regarding the evidence. So, I dont think Tesco acted  fairly  or 
reasonably when it declined the bedroom claim.
I see no reason why the bedroom damage  should be treated  differently to the damage in the 
next room. On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded the damage was most likely linked 
to the earthquake. And would therefore be covered under the policy.  I think  this claim should 
be treated exactly the same as the earlier claim. For this reason, I think Tesco  should  pay 
Mr and Mrs Ws claim in relation to the floor damage. As Mr and Mrs W have already paid for 
the repairs Tesco should pay interest  of 8% simple on top of the claim amount from the date 
the invoices were paid to the date of settlement.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs W responded to reiterate some of the information around the damage to their 
driveway and how the strong feeling was this was linked to the earthquake.
Tesco has responded to say it accepts  the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept the point made by Mr and Mrs W, but I dont feel I need  to comment further  on it. I 
think my points to cover  this in the provisional  decision are enough.
Im grateful  to Tesco for accepting the provisional  decision.
So, I see no reason  to change my provisional  decision.
my final decision 
I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN55206094I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
pay the claim for the floor damage  based on invoices provided  by Mr and Mrs W;
pay interest at 8% simple  per year from the date Mr and Mrs W paid for repairs  to the 
date of settlement*.
*If Tesco considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct income tax from 
that interest,  they should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5520609