K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt make appropriate checks  when 
providing their mortgage on an interest  only basis. And they dont think  the bank treated 
them fairly when  the mortgage  term came to an end.
background 
Mr and Mrs O had an interest only mortgage with Lloyds (which  was originally provided by 
Cheltenham & Gloucester, but for ease  Ill refer to Lloyds throughout). Where theyd taken 
further advances  over the years, the mortgage was made up of six subaccounts.  The terms 
werent aligned,  so each had a capital balance that fell due at different times.  One was 
repaid in October 2017. The others were each due to be repaid between July 2018 and 
March 2019.
Ahead of the first remaining account  falling due in July 2018, Mr O contacted Lloyds to ask 
for more time to repay the mortgage balance.  He and Mrs O were selling the mortgaged 
property and one they owned  overseas,  and would repay the balance from the proceeds.  
Lloyds extended  the terms of the subaccounts,  such that they all ran until March  2019.
Mrs O contacted Lloyds  in February 2019  to discuss what options might be available  when 
the term expired  the following month.  She was told that a further extension of up to 12 
months might be possible. But when Mr O called Lloyds in March to ask for more  time, he 
was told that it could only offer a maximum of four months. So the mortgage term was 
extended until the end of July 2019.
Mr and Mrs O complained. They  were  unhappy  that theyd been given conflicting information  
about the time theyd be given to arrange a sale of their property and settle the mortgage. 
They also said that when  theyd taken out the additional borrowing under the mortgage 
account, the bank hadnt  asked them for proof of how theyd repay it. So they thought those 
loans had been mis-sold  to them.
Lloyds accepted that it had given Mr and Mrs O conflicting information  about a possible term 
extension  under its policy,  it could only grant a further four months rather  than the 12 as 
Mrs O had been led to believe. It paid them £250  compensation for the upset this had 
caused, along with £100 for a delay in responding to their concerns. But it didnt accept any 
responsibility for the sale of the additional  borrowing, which  it said had been taken out 
through an independent financial  adviser.  
Mr and Mrs O remained  unhappy and referred  their complaint to us. They  wanted  Lloyds to 
write off half of the outstanding debt,  and give them more  time to sell the property. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint,  but didnt think Lloyds needed to do 
anything further.  He said that Mr and Mrs Os intended repayment plans for the interest  only 
borrowing had met Lloyds lending criteria at the time. He didnt think it had been required to 
obtain evidence  of their plans.  And while he agreed that the banks misinformation  about  a 
possible term extension had caused  Mr and Mrs O some unnecessary stress, he thought the 
£350 it had already paid was fair compensation for this.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept our investigators  view, and asked for an ombudsman  to review 
the matter. So their complaint was passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN59084772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached largely the 
same conclusions as our investigator  and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The original  lending decisions
Mr and Mrs O took out the mortgage  in question in 1999. They did so under  advice  from an 
independent financial  adviser (IFA). So any concerns  as to the suitability of the mortgage for 
Mr and Mrs Os needs would be a matter for the adviser, rather  than Lloyds.  But Id still 
expect Lloyds to have lent responsibly. So when  assessing Mr and Mrs Os request for an 
interest only mortgage, Id expect  it to have considered how theyd repay the capital balance  
when it fell due. 
The application form that Mr and Mrs O completed  and signed  at the time asked what  
arrangements they had in place to repay the loan.  They said they had an endowment policy 
in place  as was commonplace at the time. I dont think  Lloyds had cause to doubt  that this 
was the case,  so it was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr and Mrs O (and 
submitted by the IFA) at the time. It wasnt required  to obtain evidence  or assess  the 
possible performance of the endowment. 
Lloyds didnt provide Mr and Mrs O with any advice or recommendation in relation to their 
subsequent additional borrowing either. I can see from each of the further  advance  
applications that it asked Mr and Mrs O to confirm how they intended  to repay  the capital 
balance when it fell due. And each  time they provided details of a credible plan. In 2001 it 
was again an endowment  policy.  In 2004 they borrowed £50,000  to buy a second property 
overseas, which  was to be repaid through investments.  That second property was later 
declared as the repayment method for further  borrowing taken in 2007. On each  occasion  I 
think Mr and Mrs O put forward a credible  plan for repaying the capital, which the bank 
legitimately accepted without the need  to question or verify  further.
The regulatory landscape has changed significantly now, with interest only borrowing subject 
to much tighter regulation. But I cant apply todays standards  to things that happened  before 
they existed. I know  Mr and Mrs O think  the bank ought to have provided them with 
illustrations of their chosen mortgage on a repayment basis. But it wasnt  required to do so. 
As Ive noted above, it wasnt advising them. It was up to the IFA  and, where funds were 
advanced on a non-advised  basis, Mr and Mrs O themselves   to assess  whether the 
mortgage terms were suitable for Mr and Mrs O in light of their needs and circumstances.
So taking into account what  was expected of Lloyds at the time, I dont think it acted 
irresponsibly in lending  to Mr and Mrs O on an interest only basis.
The term extension requests
Mr and Mrs O were in the midst  of raising funds  to repay the mortgage as the loan terms 
began to expire. They were selling the mortgaged property and one they owned overseas. 
But they needed more time to do so. In the first instance, Lloyds extended the terms such  
that none of the accounts fell due before that with the longest term. I think that was a 
sensible step to take, giving  Mr and Mrs O eight months  to arrange repayment of the 
mortgage balance.
Ref: DRN59084773When that revised term ended in March 2019,  Mr and Mrs O still needed more  time. Lloyds 
granted an additional four months and I think that was an appropriate measure. It was a 
reasonable amount of time within which to expect the property sales to be concluded. And it 
balanced the banks entitlement to expect repayment in the short-term,  with the fairness of 
allowing Mr and Mrs O more time to fulfil their own plans to settle  the mortgage. So I dont 
think Lloyds acted unreasonably in looking to extend  Mr and Mrs Os mortgage on a short-
term basis.
I understand that Mr and Mrs O still needed  more time once this further extension  expired, 
but that this was informally provided while the complaint was with us. Mr and Mrs O havent 
made us aware  of any issues in this respect   but if they are unhappy with anything thats 
happened since Lloyds  issued its final response  to this complaint in June  2019,  then they 
would be able to raise a new complaint with the bank.
Unfortunately, Lloyds did make errors in how it communicated things to Mr and Mrs O. It 
gave them cause  to believe  that theyd have  a significantly longer-term extension offered (of 
up to 12 months) when  the original one expired in March 2019  which  it accepts was 
incorrect. Im sure that later discovering that this wasnt the case  wouldve been quite 
distressing for Mr and Mrs O, as they were understandably anxious  about the situation and 
the possible consequences if they couldnt repay  their mortgage in time. So its right that 
theyre compensated for this avoidable upset. But I think that the £250  Lloyds has already 
paid  along with the £100 for some delays  is a fair way to put things right.  So Im not 
requiring it to take any further action.
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already paid £350  to Mr and Mrs O to settle  this complaint and I think  
thats fair compensation in the circumstances. So I dont require it to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 August  2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5908477