K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Miss B say Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr L and Miss B bought the policy  in 1999  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr L and Miss B for disability and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to pay out £446.63 a month in the event of a 
successful claim. This more than covered their monthly mortgage repayment of £345.09.  At 
the time,  it cost £23.99 a month. 
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as a pit boss.  He has told us he was entitled to between 
three and six months sick and redundancy pay and didnt have any other means  of repaying 
the mortgage should he be unable  to work.  Mr L has said he had wisdom tooth problems in 
1998. 
Miss B was employed as a cashier. She has told us she was entitled to between three and 
six months was not entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other  means of repaying  the 
mortgage should she be unable to work. Miss B has said she had high blood pressure in 
1989. 
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 
2002. 
Mr L and Miss Bs representative  has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr L and Miss Bs representative says:
Bank of Scotland failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr L and Miss B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr L and 
Miss Bs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bank of Scotland 
should have told Mr L and Miss B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr L and Miss 
B and the impact  they would  have  had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN55734832The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr L and Miss B received  was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr L and Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr L and Miss Bs. I dont intend  to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr L and Miss Bs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in November 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN55734833The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bank  of Scotland at the time. So, Im satisfied  I should  take the ABI Code 
and these other publications  into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr L and Miss Bs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr L and Miss Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice, whether it advised Mr L and Miss B with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bank of Scotland gave Mr L and Miss B sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN55734834-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L and 
Miss B, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr L and Miss B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and Miss B 
and Bank  of Scotland, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr L and Miss Bs complaint. Ive set out 
my reasoning below.  
did Mr L and Miss  B know they had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr L and Miss B signed  on the mortgage  application  to indicate they wanted the PPI. They 
also signed a separate  application  form specifically for the PPI which  clearly set out the cost 
and benefit of the policy.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr L and Miss B knew  the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Both Bank of Scotland and Mr L and Miss B agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  Bank of Scotland had to advise Mr L and Miss B with reasonable care and skill, 
in particular whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Bank  of Scotland took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr L and Miss B. The adviser  had information about  some of Mr L and 
Miss Bs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application and while  they were  
asked some questions  to try and establish whether they had a need for the policy I dont 
think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr L and Miss B given their 
circumstances. So, Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland advised  with reasonable care and 
skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr L and Miss B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr L and Miss B met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mr L and Miss B had a need  for the policy  it seems  likely that Mr L and Miss Bs 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
Ref: DRN55734835strain if Mr L or Miss B was not working  for an extended period of time  even 
allowing for their employee benefits.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr L and Miss B. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr L and Miss B. 
There was nothing  about Mr L and Miss Bs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, 
Mr L said he had wisdom  tooth problems in 1998  and Miss B has told us about 
having high blood  pressure in 1989. However,  the policy did have exclude  these 
conditions or claims relating to them.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr L and Miss Bs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Mr L and Miss 
B sufficient  information about the cover  provided by the policy to enable them to understand 
what Bank of Scotland was recommending to them and make an informed decision about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr L and Miss B were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr L or Miss B was unable to work through disability or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr L and Miss 
B would have taken  out the policy without  any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bank  of Scotland  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr L and Miss B agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr L and Miss B Im not persuaded 
Bank of Scotland did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending  in 
a way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland gave Mr L 
and Miss B all of the information they needed about the policy  to make an informed decision 
about whether  to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr L and Miss Bs representative has raised  
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr L and 
Miss Bs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr L and Miss Bs representative considers to 
Ref: DRN55734836be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr L and Miss B about  the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr L and Miss Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr L and Miss B have  suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Bank  of Scotland ought to have done either. 
what effect did Bank of Scotlands shortcomings have on Mr L and Miss B? To what 
extent did Mr L and Miss B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr L and Miss B. So, I have gone  on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr L and Miss B suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must  
decide whether  or not Mr L and Miss B would have still taken out the policy, had Bank  of 
Scotland done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland took the steps it should  have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr L and Miss B, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr L and Miss B have  suffered  
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Bank of Scotland  had explained 
things properly, Mr L and Miss B would have acted differently,  or whether they would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr L and Miss B say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr L and Miss B had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Bank of Scotland advised  them  that 
there was a suitable product they could buy that would  protect  their mortgage payments in 
the event they were  unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN55734837As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr L and Miss Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr L and Miss B were given about the cost 
and monthly benefit  was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy,  such  as 
the limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L and Miss B thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L and 
Miss B werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr L and Miss B be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr L and Miss B pause  for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L and Miss B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr L and Miss Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr L and Miss B were  eligible for 
its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr L and Miss B wouldve been caught by any of the significant  
exclusions  Mr L and Miss B were  in permanent employment and the policy didnt exclude 
pre-existing conditions. So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr L and 
Miss B might  reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be 
able to make  a disability  claim without  having to provide  some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr L and Miss B from taking out the policy,  Mr L and Miss B, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr L and Miss B had known they could only claim for disability if one of them was unable 
to do both their job and any similar gainful occupation which  in the insurers view they might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr L or Miss B was unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN55734838Bank of Scotland may not have told Mr L and Miss B that any claim they made  would be 
limited to a 24-month  period. This may have  differed  from what they expected and might 
have hoped for  but 24 months was a longer period than Mr L and Miss B would have 
received full sick pay for, and their redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 
24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr L and Miss B would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr L and Miss B be unable  to work in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, 
it could help reduce  their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr L and Miss Bs sick pay or 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr L and Miss B would still have taken  out the policy.  The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr L and Miss B were  made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr L and Miss B would have taken out the policy in any event  
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr L and Miss Bs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr L and Miss B would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr L and Miss 
Bs circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr L 
and Miss B found  themselves  in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr L and Miss B believe  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN55734839represent fair compensation to put Mr L and Miss B in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Mr L and Miss B compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr L and Miss B think Bank  of Scotland misrepresented the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI. While  I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude 
some of Bank of Scotlands statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the 
reason why Bank of Scotland failed to act fairly  and reasonably was not because  of what it 
did or didnt  say in the information  it provided   but because the overall information Bank of 
Scotland gave  Mr L and Miss B, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I 
consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1999 when providing  information 
about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr L and Miss Bs representative says a court  might 
take if it were to find Bank of Scotland negligently misrepresented  the contract  to Mr L and 
Miss B and about  the remedy  a court might  award  if it were  to find that Bank of Scotland  had 
been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons 
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr L and Miss B in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5573483