K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) didnt help him enough 
when he had problems  with his direct debit.
background
In July 2018 Mr W went into a local branch of Barclays Bank and cancelled his direct debit 
for his Barclaycard.  He wanted  to stop it for two months because he was going to be 
travelling. He phoned Barclaycard from the branch to explain what  he had done  but it said he 
had to make  payments every month so he reinstated his direct  debit. But while he was away 
Barclaycard contacted him and said it hadnt  received his August 2018 payment. He made a 
manual payment over the phone and said he would contact it when he got back from 
travelling. He forgot to do this and in September 2018 it called him again.  This situation 
continued while he tried to sort out the problem with his direct debit. Eventually he told 
Barclaycard he wouldnt  make any more payments until it reinstated his direct  debit.  
In January 2019 he spoke to Barclaycard again as he was going away  for three months.  He 
says it told him it would issue a new card and set up a new direct  debit for him so he paid the 
outstanding arrears. But in February 2019  Barclaycard  phoned him to say it was cancelling 
his card and it considered  his case closed. He said he kept phoning to try and sort the 
problem out but didnt  get anywhere. 
Barclaycard said its systems  meant that once a direct debit is cancelled it cant  be reinstated 
using the same payment details. But it said Mr W had an obligation  to keep his payments up 
to date and he hasnt done so. Since  July 2018  it said hed only made two manual  payments 
on 13 September 2018 and 6 February  2019. So his account is in arrears. Once those  are 
cleared it can then block his card to set up a new direct debit. But because his account  has 
been in arrears it wont send him a new card. As a gesture of goodwill it refunded three  late 
payment charges totalling £36. And for its poor customer  service  in a phone  call on 28 
October 2019 it paid him £125  compensation.
Our investigator thought the letter Barclaycard sent him telling him to pay off his arrears so it 
could set up a new direct debit was ambiguous  and Mr W had assumed that he didnt need 
to do anything further whereas he needed  to contact  Barclaycard to set up the new direct  
debit. So he missed  his payments  in March and April. But Barclaycard phoned him in April 
2019 so she thought he shouldve made  manual payments after that date because he knew  
the direct  debit hadnt been set up. In those circumstances she thought Barclaycard should 
increase its offer of compensation to £250.  And it should refund the late payment fee of £12 
for March 2019 and remove late payment  markers for March  and April 2019.
Barclaycard said it agreed to pay Mr W the additional £125.  But it said Mr W didnt have 
enough funds  in his account  to meet the March  2019 payment. So even  if the direct  debit  
had been set up that payment wouldve failed. Our investigator amended her view to reflect  
that.
Mr W raised a number  of points in response to her view. Our investigator  responded fully to 
them but I have  considered all those points  again when coming to my decision.
Ref: DRN58149432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I know Mr W will be disappointed when I say that Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. 
I can appreciate how frustrated Mr W felt when he couldnt easily  sort out the problem that 
occurred after he cancelled his direct  debit and tried to reinstate it. The difficulty  was that 
Barclaycards systems dont allow a new direct  debit to be set up with the same  payment 
details. And although payment by direct  debit is one option it offers its customers,  if thats not 
available as a method  of payment for any reason a customer  still has an obligation to make 
the minimum payment  on time using another method. So by withholding payment Mr W was 
in breach of his agreement with Barclaycard. And once arrears built up on the account  
Barclaycard was entitled to close the account  and not issue  another  card. 
But I agree  with our investigator that Barclaycard didnt communicate  fully with Mr W. 
Barclaycard has now agreed  to pay Mr W an additional £125 compensation for the distress 
and the trouble its caused him. Mr W says this isnt enough for all the stress,  inconvenience 
and phone calls and thinks £3,500 would be a more  realistic figure. I know he will be 
disappointed when  I say I dont agree. This Service cant punish banks for their mistakes.  
Our role is to look at what went wrong  and consider what would be a fair and reasonable 
solution to put matters  right. With the additional £125 Barclaycard will have paid a total of 
£250 compensation. And I agree with our investigator that Barclaycard should remove the 
late payment marker for April 2019  from his credit record  as Mr W didnt know the direct  
debit hadnt ben set up for that payment until after the due date.  I think thats a fair and 
reasonable solution in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should  pay Mr W an additional £125 and it should 
remove the late payment  marker from his credit  record for April 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5814943