K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Mr J complains Barclays Bank UK Plc treated him unfairly when it repossessed  
his home.
background
In 2012, Barclays  were granted a possession  order of Mr Js property. The repossession
was put on hold owing to Mr Js ill health,  but eventually in March  2016, the property  was 
repossessed.
Barclays tried to contact Mr J in relation to removing his belongings from the property, but he 
was in and out of hospital due to his health. Barclays extended the deadline for the removal  
of Mr Js belongings,  but Mr J still wasnt able to attend to collect  them. In August 2016,
Barclays removed and destroyed all of Mr Js belongings. The house was then sold at the 
start of 2017.
Mr J complained to Barclays about  the repossession. He said hed had around  £70,000  in a
Barclays pension that he couldve used to clear the arrears, so the repossession of his 
property shouldnt have  gone ahead. He also said he had many items of value in his house  
that Barclays had removed and got rid of. He said hed been in hospital at the time Barclays 
was contacting him about his belongings and wasnt able to arrange  to have them removed.
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had given  Mr J the option of having  
a house sitter, but he had refused to pay for it. It also said putting his belongings in storage 
wasnt an option as the cost of the storage would have outweighed the value of the items.
In July 2018 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In it I said:
As explained by our investigator, this service cant interfere with court  orders.  The 
possession order was granted by the court, so this service cant consider whether 
repossession of Mr Js property was fair. So this decision relates to the actions of 
Barclays after it repossessed Mr Js property,  including how it dealt with Mr J and the 
decision to get rid of his personal  belongings.
Barclays accept it shouldnt have  removed and destroyed all of Mr Js belongings. 
Ive already asked  it to appoint a loss adjuster to assess the value  of Mr Js 
belongings. It has done so and provided  a report which says Mr J had between 
£25,000  £30,800 worth of belongings in his house.  Barclays  hasnt indicated what 
offer it would like to make, so Ive considered  the report to decide  the award.
The report  was completed based on the inventory  list provided by Barclays and the 
photographs taken  in Mr Js property. The report notes that it is difficult to estimate  
many items, as the inventory isnt detailed enough.  It says the inventory doesnt  
detail the amount of certain items, such as ornaments and paintings, and it is difficult  
to determine their condition. Some of the items have been estimated based  on 
pictures alone.
Having looked  at the report, I think Barclays should  pay Mr J £30,800 for his 
belongings.
I say this because  the report  has taken into account  the state of the property when 
assessing the value of the items. And even though the report says his belongings are 
Ref: DRN58846432not worth  more than £30,800, Mr J thinks the figure is closer to £60,000. And 
unfortunately, much of the evidence he could  get to support  this has unfortunately 
been destroyed by
Barclays.
Mr J also had a number  of cars on his property. The report  says these could only be 
valued as scrap metal, as there are no ownership,  MOT or service  documents.  It is 
possible that
Mr J had these, but they were destroyed when his possessions were  removed. So it 
is possible that the true value of these  would have been higher. It has also been  
difficult for the loss adjuster to properly value some items; due to the lack of detail 
they were provided.
Barclays hasnt provided any reason for me to think I should  award  lower  than 
£30,800, so I think  this is a fair amount in the circumstances.
I accept Mr J thinks it should  be more  than this  but the loss adjusters are experts in 
looking at the value of items. So in the absence of any other  evidence,  I have no 
other way of estimating the value of his belongings.
 
I understand Barclays has offered Mr J £1,000  for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused to him. But I dont  think  this goes far enough to recognise  the emotional  
damage this has caused  Mr J. Barclays were aware  during the possession  process  
that Mr J cannot read or write. And to have to deal with trying  to arrange for his 
belongings to be collected (when he has no close family or friends to call upon)  must 
have caused added  anxiety at a time when he should have been able to focus on his 
health.
 
I note Mr J did turn up to the property in August 2016 when his possessions were  
being removed,  and the police had to be called. I think this shows  Mr J was 
struggling to deal with what  was happening, but did care about keeping his 
belongings. I note that the repossession notes suggest Mr J didnt want to pay the 
house sitting costs,  but this was still a vulnerable customer, and Barclays  shouldve 
done more to provide support and assistance  to him. Its clear from Barclays  own 
notes that nurses  from the hospital  had been  in touch to explain
Mr Js situation as Barclays continued  to pursue him whilst he was in hospital.
 
I also note that even though Mr Js house  was sold at the start of 2017, and he was 
due a significant amount of money,  he didnt receive this money until earlier this year. 
I cant see any reason for such  a long delay in returning his money to him. Given 
everything above I consider an award of £5,000  for distress and inconvenience to be 
more appropriate  in this case.
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require Barclays bank Plc to:
Pay Mr J £30,800  for his belongings and pay interest on this figure  at 8% 
simple per year,  from the date the belongings were removed until the date of 
settlement.*
Pay Mr J £5,000 for distress and inconvenience .
Sadly, Mr J passed away around  the time I issued my provisional decision. So the estate of 
the late Mr J is now bringing  the complaint. The estate has said it accepts the provisional 
decision and has nothing  further to add.
Ref: DRN58846433Barclays has also said it accepts the findings set out in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted the findings  made in my provisional decision,  I see no reason 
to depart from what I have  previously  set out. So for the reasons given above I uphold  this 
complaint; Barclays needs to pay the compensation set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay the Estate of the late Mr J:
£30,800 for his belongings  and pay interest  on this figure at 8% simple per year, from 
the date the belongings  were removed until the date of settlement.1
£5,000 for distress  and inconvenience.2
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of the 
late Mr J to accept or reject my decision before  22 September 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK Plc must  give The Estate of the late Mr J a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off if they ask for one.
2 Barclays Bank UK Plc must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it The Estate of the late Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN5884643