K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her alongside  a credit card in April 2002.   
When this policy was sold,  Canada  Square Operations Limited was trading as Egg. So to 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Egg for the rest of this decision.  
background
Our adjudicator initially thought this complaint should be upheld.  Egg didnt agree with that 
view. When our adjudicator looked again  at the complaint, she changed her view and said it 
should not be upheld. Mrs B then disagreed. 
As the parties dont accept what our adjudicator  said, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I realise Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision. But Im afraid I havent upheld the 
complaint. Ill explain  why below.
Mrs B bought PPI at the same  time as she applied  for her credit  card online. As this was an 
internet sale, I think shed have been able to complete  the application in her own time and at 
her own pace. Egg has provided me with a screen shot of the application  process, along with 
its electronic records that are specific to Mrs Bs application. So I can be reasonably  satisfied 
about what she would have seen and how she would have answered when she made her 
application. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mrs B would have known PPI was optional and 
she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I can see that in order  for her application to 
progress, Mrs B would  have had to select one of two equally prominent boxes with regard to 
PPI  one to say she wanted a policy and another to say she did not. I can see from Eggs 
electronic records that she appears to have selected  that she wanted cover. 
Looking at the wording of the PPI section,  I think it would have been clear  that Mrs B could 
have declined this PPI cover if she didnt want it. I also think  she would have reasonably  
known that insurance  wasnt  a condition of her credit  card. On balance,  I think shed have 
been aware that she could have turned the cover  down if she wanted to. 
Egg didnt  advise Mrs B to buy PPI. But it still had to make  sure she had enough information 
about the cover so she could decide  for herself  whether it was a good fit for her needs. That 
information had to be fair, clear and not misleading.  
I dont think the total cost of the PPI is clearly set out. For example, its not immediately clear 
that Mrs B would have  to pay interest on the cost of her premiums  if she didnt repay her 
balance in full every month. So the question for me now is whether Mrs B would have  acted 
Ref: DRN50067362differently if Egg had told her everything  it should have done. To help me decide  what  shes  
likely to have done, Ive looked  at the terms and conditions of the cover.  And Ive also 
thought about what we know  about  her personal circumstances at that time. 
I can see that if shed  had to make  a claim,  10% of Mrs Bs credit card balance  would have 
been repaid for every month she was out of work up to a maximum of 12 months for each 
claim. 
Mrs B told us initially that shed have  received  six months full pay and six months half pay if 
shed been too unwell  to work. Egg challenged our adjudicator on that point and said that 
when Mrs B spoke to them, she said shed have only received three months  full pay. Our 
adjudicator sought  clarification. Mrs B then said that she would have received three months 
contractual pay, but her employer would have paid her for six months anyway because that 
was what they generally did. 
Even if I accept that was Mrs Bs position  with regard to sick pay, it seems that her full sick 
pay was only guaranteed  for three months.  Mrs B also gave us some information about  her 
savings. Even taking those savings at their highest, I think the PPI would have lasted  for 
longer than the means she had in place from work  and savings. 
Mrs B also told us that she had assets she could have sold to pay her credit card, along with 
equity in her home. But with PPI she could have kept up her repayments  and retained those 
assets. Also, if she was off work because of sickness, its likely she would have  found  it 
difficult to raise funds to release equity in a property. I can see that Mrs B also said shed 
have been able to rely on family  support if she ran into financial difficulty. I dont doubt  it 
would have been the intention of those family members to assist  Mrs B. But circumstances 
can change and theres no guarantee that help would  have  been  available to her as and 
when she needed  it. 
Mrs B told us she was in good health  when she bought this policy.  And I havent seen 
anything unusual about her employment  circumstances that would have stopped her from 
being able to make a successful claim if she needed  to. Overall, I think PPI could have been 
helpful for Mrs B at what  would have no doubt  been a stressful time for her if she was out of 
work. I dont  think more or better  information about  the cover would have put her off buying 
it. It follows then that I havent  upheld the complaint. 
my final decision
I havent upheld  this complaint about  Canada Square Operations  Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5006736