K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained Close Brothers Limited (CBL) took payments from his account without 
his authorisation.
background
Mr S bought home  insurance through an insurance  broker, who instructed CBL to process 
and manage the resulting credit agreement.
When Mr S became aware he was entering into a credit agreement, he contacted  both CBL 
and the insurance  broker  to cancel the policy within the 14 day cooling off period. Mr S 
believed he needed  to take no further action.
However, CBL continued to chase for a signed agreement and began  to take the monthly 
payments. When Mr S realised  money was being  taken, he made an indemnity claim 
through his bank to get a refund.  As Mr S cancelled the direct  debit, his account with CBL 
went into arrears  and he received a default  notice as a result.
Mr S thought  he should be compensated for the stress he experienced sorting out a refund 
for the payments CBL shouldnt have taken.
CBL said they acted in good faith on the instruction of the insurance  broker. As the broker 
didnt notify them of Mr Ss withdrawal,  theyd continued to process the payments. They  
explained they saw the first payment going through  as Mr Ss authority even though a signed  
credit agreement wasnt received. As Mr S had since received a refund, they didnt think  any 
further action  was necessary.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this response  so he referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and upheld it. He thought CBL hadnt been  clear 
in explaining that the payments  would be taken with or without  a signed credit agreement. 
He thought CBL shouldve  cancelled  the agreement when they received Mr Ss cancellation 
e-mail. Had they done so, they wouldnt have  taken any payments and Mr S wouldnt have 
had to take action to get a refund. So, he recommended CBL pay £100 to recognise the 
trouble and upset  Mr S experienced.  Mr S accepted this.
CBL disagreed. They thought, as Mr S received a refund for all the payments taken and his 
credit file hadnt been affected, the recommendation was unfair.  As CBL rejected the 
recommendation, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I will be upholding the 
complaint for the same reasons as the investigator.
Im aware CBL dont  dispute that the payments shouldnt have been processed.  However,  
they maintain  they acted in good faith and that the fault lies with the insurance broker  that 
provided them the instruction.
I dont agree with this view for two reasons.
Ref: DRN59848752Ive seen that Mr S e-mailed CBL within the two week cooling off period, cancelling his 
policy. When CBL chased  him for a signed  credit agreement, Mr S responded explaining he 
didnt wish to continue  with the agreement. I think at this point Mr S has given CBL 
reasonable notification that he didnt wish to proceed and wouldnt expect them to continue 
to take payments.
Ive also seen Mr S didnt sign the credit agreement in the belief  that by doing so, CBL 
wouldnt have authority to take payments from his account. Ive reviewed the agreement and 
it prominently states on each page  that the agreement needed to be signed. 
I think this creates the impression that a signature  was needed so I think  Mrs Ss assumption  
was reasonable.  Although there is a clause that explains  the first payment would be used to 
confirm authority, I dont  think this was made  clear  to Mr S within  the documentation. The 
clause was concealed in the small print of the agreement and wasnt  as clearly visible as all 
the reminders to sign the agreement.
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for CBL to disregard Mr S requests to cancel the 
agreement and continue  to take payments. This resulted in stress and inconvenience for Mr 
S as he tried to sort things  out.
Ive seen that Mr S contacted his bank  to secure  the refund,  which  will have taken time and 
effort. This was after a number of attempts  he made  to make CBL aware he didnt think  an 
agreement was in place. He also received a default  notice  which  warned that his credit  file 
may be affected and I think  this wouldve  been a worrying situation. 
Therefore, I think its fair that CBL compensate him £100 for the trouble and upset he 
experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Close Brothers Limited  must pay Mr S 
£100 to recognise  the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5984875