K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002. Mr 
and Mrs C say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made  it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant  remember  this. Mr and 
Mrs C say that they felt pressured  into taking the PPI because they believed the approval 
of their mortgage relied on it. But I havent  seen any other  evidence to support this and 
Im satisfied  the papers Mr and Mrs C signed  made it clear they had a choice.
BoS recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them and based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time  I think  that it was. 
For example, they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and they seem  to have  had a need for the cover. Mr and Mrs C both had good sick pay, 
but the policy wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to two years at a time, which  
was longer than their sick pay wouldve lasted. Mr and Mrs C were  also possibly entitled 
to some  redundancy  pay too, but, again,  the PPI wouldve  paid out for up to two years at 
a time if either  of them  were made redundant, leaving  any redundancy pay to cover other 
uninsured expenses.
Mr and Mrs C only had a small amount of savings which  wouldnt have covered their 
mortgage repayments and other expenses for very long if either  or both of them  were  out 
of work.  So the PPI policy  offered  a useful benefit.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if something  went  wrong. I 
also havent  seen  any evidence to suggest  it was unaffordable for them. So I dont think  
better information about  the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said but these points dont  change  my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
and Mrs C  paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs C back  some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
If it hasnt  already, BoS will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs C now Ive issued my 
final decision. 
Ref: DRN59256142my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5925614