K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Interactive Investor  Services Limited (Interactive) sold some of her 
shares without her agreement. 
background
Mrs W has a share dealing  account  with her employer. In December 2017  the account  
moved to Interactive from a previous stockbroker (TD). Because Mrs W had outstanding  
fees on her account,  Interactive sold some  of her shares to cover  the costs.  
Mrs W complained  to Interactive. Interactive didnt  uphold  the complaint. It said itd told 
Mrs W by email of its intention to sell the shares.
Mrs W referred her complaint to us. She said she didnt receive  any notification that her 
account was transferring  from TD - and so was reluctant to open  any emails  she received 
from Interactive. She also didnt know the terms of the account had changed,  and that a 
quarterly charge now applied. She wanted the shares restored to her account. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt uphold it. He found  Interactive  had taken 
reasonable steps to inform Mrs W about the changes to her account and the intention to sell 
her shares. He was also happy Interactive had acted in line with the terms of service. 
Mrs W didnt accept our investigators findings and the case  has been  passed to me to 
review. She felt Interactive shouldnt have sent her emails when TD had communicated  with 
her by post.  And she didnt think it was right for Interactive to send some  communication to 
her by post,  and some  by email. Mrs W added that she has since told Interactive to only 
communicate with her by phone  or post,  but it still sends her emails. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about  it, but because I dont  think I need  to comment  on it to reach what  I think is 
the right outcome.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs W. But Id like to take some  time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision.  
change from TD to Interactive 
I can see Interactive sent Mrs W three  emails in the six months leading up to the move from 
TD. These emails  included  general  information on the changes, as well as information about 
changes to the terms of service. I can see the emails were  sent to the correct  email address. 
So whilst Mrs W has said she either didnt receive the emails, or chose not to open them - 
because she didnt  recognise the source  - I think Interactive took reasonable steps  to let 
Mrs W know about the changes. 
Ref: DRN52420372Mrs Ws main point is that Interactive  shouldve  sent the information about  the changes  by 
post. She thinks Interactive shouldve communicated in this way because this was how TD 
had communicated  with her in the past. And if it had, Mrs W says she wouldve known  about  
the changes. Shes also questioned  why Interactive sent information about the changes  by 
email but sent notification  the shares  had been sold by post.  
I can see from the terms of service that changes could be made to Mrs Ws account  with 
30 days notice by any one or more of the following methods: 
(a) writing to you;
(b) emailing you;
(c) posting a message  on our Website;
(d) posting a message  within  the secure  area of your online Account; or
(e) placing an advertisement in a national newspaper.
Interactive has also provided  us with evidence to show  Mrs W didnt have  any 
communication preferences set up on her account. So notice of the changes  were sent to 
Mrs W by email  that being  Interactives preference. Interactive acted in accordance with 
the terms of service, and because Mrs W hadnt specifically said no to emails, I dont think  its 
decision to communicate  via email was an unreasonable one.  
Mrs Ws told us shes now set her communication preferences with Interactive to phone  and 
post only. But Interactive  is still sending correspondence by email. This is a new complaint 
that Mrs W may wish to take up with Interactive, so I cant  comment on it here.
Notification of fees and sale of the shares
I can see Interactive emailed a letter to Mrs W in October 2017 which  outlined  changes to 
the terms of service. The letter included:
We will ask you to make  a flat payment each quarter. In return well look after your assets
securely and give you £22.50 of trading credits which you can use to pay for your trade
commissions, including regular investments and dividend reinvestments.  Your  quarterly 
payment is non-refundable, however you will be able to accrue up to £90 of trading credits,  
so youll  have plenty  of flexibility on how and when you invest.
If youre an investor who trades less frequently, then remember that therell be no 
percentage-based fees for holding your investments  with us. So, even if you dont use all 
your trading  credits, our fixed quarterly  payment  can be great  value.
Interactive sent two further letters to Mrs W, by email, on 21 August and 6 September 2018 
telling her that she had outstanding fees to pay.  Both letters said:
If the balance remains outstanding on 20 September 2018, well sell from your investments 
and/or convert  cash you hold in another currency and use the proceeds to clear the balance. 
Well do this on or after 20 September 2018  without further notice and youll  receive the 
valuation that applies at the time of any trade we place.
Looking at the information Interactive sent to Mrs W, I think it gave her responsible notice of 
the fees; and it was clear shares would  be sold if fees werent paid. Mrs W says she didnt 
see these emails and so didnt read the letters. But Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen 
that Interactive  sent them to her. 
Ref: DRN52420373Mrs W is also concerned  that Interactive sold her shares without her authorisation. The 
terms of service say:
If you do not pay when due any amount owed by you to us then we may sell any of your 
assets held by us to pay off the amount due and any additional  costs  reasonably  incurred.
I appreciate Mrs W didnt  want to sell her shares. But I can see Interactive gave her ample  
notice of its intentions  if the outstanding fees werent paid. And Interactives terms of service 
are clear  on this point. So I cant say Interactive did anything wrong in selling Mrs Ws 
shares. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
 
 
Ref: DRN5242037