K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (Provident) lent irresponsibly to 
her.
background
Miss W took out a total of four loans with Provident  between August 2005 and February 
2009. 
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Date repaid No. of weekly 
instalments
1 27.08.05 £400 22.07.06 55
2 07.01.06 £100 22.07.06 55
3 01.08.08 £200 08.03.13 56
4 27.02.09 £100 08.03.13 57
Miss W considers that Provident was irresponsible to make the loans to her. She says she 
was in a desperate financial situation, and was young and nave. She believes that 
affordability checks would have shown Provident  that she wasnt  in a position to take out the 
loans.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She explained, in 
summary, that we couldnt look at the first two loans,  as they were  taken out before the 
business came within  our jurisdiction in April 2007. She didnt think Provident had carried out 
detailed enough  checks before making  the third and fourth loan. But based on the available 
information, she didnt  think there  was anything  which should have indicated  to Provident 
that Miss W wouldnt  be able to make her repayments on those loans sustainably.
Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators  view,  so the complaints been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible and unaffordable lending - including  all the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website.
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given  loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN59144472the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
As the adjudicator explained,  I can only consider the loans which Miss W took after 6 April 
2007.
When Miss W applied for loan 3, more  than two years had passed since shed finished  
repaying loan 2. Providents records show that the weekly payments on loan 3 were £3 and 
on loan 4 were £6. But even thought the weekly repayments were  relatively  modest, in the 
case of both loans  Miss W needed to keep up with payments every week  for more than a 
year. And the longer a lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower  experiencing financial  difficulty.
Taking everything into account,  I think that at the very least Provident should have asked 
Miss W for details of her regular monthly income  and expenditure before making loan 3. And 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that it did so.
By the time Miss W applied for loan 4, shed already been  borrowing from Provident for 
nearly seven months without a break.  And loan 4 was itself repayable over more than a year.  
Whats more, Miss W applied for loan 4 while she was still repaying  loan 3. So shed  have to 
make repayments on both loans each week.
Taking everything into account,  I think that Provident ought to have been alerted to the 
possibility that Miss W wasnt borrowing sustainably. And I think it should  have  carried out a 
detailed review of her financial situation before agreeing  to loan 4.
We asked Miss W for copies of her bank statements and credit report  covering the time 
when she took out the loans, so we could see what better checks  would have shown 
Provident. But she hasnt  been able to provide  those  to us. 
I acknowledge that Miss W has told us that she had hardly any income at the time, and was 
struggling to keep her head above  water. But without sight of Miss Ws bank statements or 
credit report  from the time,  Im not able to say that better checks  would have shown 
Provident that it shouldnt have given  her the loans.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Miss W. But for the reasons Ive set 
out, I cant fairly uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN59144473my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February  2020.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5914447