K820x#14complaint
Mrs F is unhappy  that NRAM Limited  appointed  a Law of Property Act Receiver (LPAR) in 
August 2018 to manage her buy-to-let property due to mortgage  arrears. She also 
complained about the service provided by her commercial consultant (who Ill call AB) and 
said she wanted a different  person  to manage  her account.
Mrs F has two buy-to-let  mortgages with NRAM, this one is in her sole name and the other  is 
in joint names with another party. Weve separated these into two complaints because we 
cant disclose information about Mrs Fs sole-named mortgage to the other party,  but that 
aside, the actual complaints are identical. Ive prepared decisions on both;  and the narratives 
of the two decisions reflect that theyre  identical complaints, just brought by different parties. 
However, each decision  is separate and discrete  from the other and this is solely about 
Mrs Fs sole-named mortgage.
background
Mrs Fs account  went into arrears when she didnt make any payments in May, June and 
July 2018. She said this was because her tenant  didnt pay her, and she spent the money  
she had available  on renovations to the property that her tenant had asked for.
Arrears letters were  sent to Mrs F in May and June. On 28 June NRAM wrote to Mrs F to 
warn her that if the situation  hadnt  been rectified  by 12 July then it would issue a formal 
demand. As nothing was forthcoming  the formal demand was issued on 12 July.
The formal  demand  prompted Mrs F to call NRAM and she had a lengthy call with AB. He 
told Mrs F that the only way to stop further action was for her to complete some  income  and 
expenditure forms and for a proposal  to be agreed  for the repayment of the arrears. Mrs F 
said she wouldnt be able to pay anything for July, but would be in a position to pay the 
mortgage plus £200 towards the arrears each  month  from August. AB asked Mrs F to try to 
pay something in July at least, and explained  how urgent the matter was. 
AB offered  to email  the forms to Mrs F, but she insisted they were posted to her instead. It 
was anticipated  shed receive those  on Monday 16 July and it was agreed  that she would 
post them back by Friday 20 July so a further conversation could  be held on 23 July. Again 
AB reiterated  how urgent it was.
Mrs F told NRAM on 20 July that she hadnt received the forms so they were sent again by 
recorded delivery, so NRAM  could be sure Mrs F received them  on 21 July.
As it heard nothing  further NRAM wrote  to Mrs F on 9 August to say it would be appointing 
the LPAR if things  were not resolved  by 16 August.
Mrs F spoke  to AB on 17 August and in that call she said shed returned the forms with a 
covering letter and a cheque (post-dated for 15 August)  on 23 July. AB said he hadnt  
received them and questioned why Mrs F had left it until then to call in and why she hadnt 
answered when  NRAM had been  trying  to contact her in the meantime. Mrs F said shed 
been busy and unwell, and that she hadnt received the letter  about  the LPAR  appointment 
dated 9 August with the 16 August deadline.
Mrs F complained about the instruction of the LPAR, and the service provided by AB. NRAM 
rejected her complaint on 28 August 2018.
Ref: DRN53774722Our adjudicator said NRAM  had the right to appoint the LPAR under the terms of the 
mortgage and that AB hadnt treated Mrs F poorly.  Mrs F didnt agree and so the matters 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Mrs F. But although Ive read and considered  the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Im aware Mrs F said she wanted to send us further  submissions, but despite  our adjudicator 
chasing this up, nothing  further has been  sent in. As we cant  keep complaints on hold 
indefinitely, and following  a final deadline being  given by our adjudicator, Ill now be deciding 
the complaint  based on what we already hold.
Before I address the underlying merits of the complaint  in detail, there  are some 
observations I need to make about the extent of my remit  to consider this complaint.
Due to the nature of the situation, Mrs F has mentioned various  new issues that have come 
up whilst  this complaint  has been ongoing.  We cant look at issues  that havent  already been 
considered by the business complained about, so Mrs F will need  to make a fresh  complaint 
to NRAM (if she still wants to, and hasnt already done so) if she wants  those issues  looked  
at. Here I can only consider the two points mentioned  in the August  2018 final response  
letter, which are:
Mrs F is unhappy that NRAM  instructed the LPAR  to take control  of the property.
Mrs F feels  AB has been unhelpful  and has caused her undue  stress.
Clearly the mortgage  was in arrears, so NRAM was entitled to take legitimate steps  to recover 
the money owed  to it. The step it took in appointing an LPAR was a commercial decision that 
NRAM was entitled  to take.  Generally  speaking,  we wont interfere in the way a financial 
business exercises its commercial judgement, and Im not persuaded there are grounds  for 
me to do so here.
Mrs Fs mortgage  terms and conditions state  NRAMs right to sell the property - or to appoint 
an LPAR - is exercisable immediately upon  Mrs F being more than two months  late with her 
monthly payments.  Mrs F went  over that threshold before the LPAR  appointment and so Im 
satisfied NRAM was entitled to take that action under the mortgage contract. Mrs F says she 
didnt receive the letter  of 9 August about the appointment  and it is unfortunate  she happened 
to phone the day after the deadline. However having listened to the calls Im satisfied AB had 
already warned Mrs F that the appointment of the LPAR was a possibility, and NRAM has 
said that by that point  a monthly  repayment  arrangement wouldnt have been enough to hold 
off on the appointment in any event.
Mrs F said she returned the required forms and sent a covering  letter  and cheque on 23 July 
but NRAM has confirmed  those have never been received. Unfortunately Mrs F didnt follow  
them up despite  having been told the urgency of the situation.  Its concerning  that post 
doesnt seem to reach Mrs F (and I understand  thats a long term issue as she also reported 
that as a problem on previous complaints weve dealt with against other financial businesses 
Ref: DRN53774723over the years), and that there  also seems  to be a problem with items she posts back.  I can 
only suggest she raises  those issues with the Royal Mail as it forms a concerning picture of 
post going astray  in both directions  - in Mrs Fs area.
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs F and AB, and also considered the actions AB 
undertook. Having done so Im satisfied AB acted appropriately, dealt with Mrs F 
professionally and treated her with respect. AB explained to Mrs F what  was happening and 
tried to get a repayment arrangement in place. He told Mrs F how urgent it was, and what  
could happen  if the matter  wasnt resolved. When matters werent resolved AB appointed  the 
LPAR in line with NRAMs policies  and procedures. It would be entirely inappropriate for me to 
interfere with how NRAM does business, and that includes ordering NRAM to appoint 
someone other than AB to deal with Mrs Fs mortgage account.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied NRAM didnt act inappropriately here and so I 
dont uphold this complaint, and I make no order or award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5377472