K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Ms W says that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on Ms Ws complaint explaining that Id come to 
a different outcome to our adjudicator.
The details of the complaint and provisional findings can be found in my provisional decision 
which Ive attached below and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ws representative  confirmed that my provisional decision had been received but made 
no further comments on its content.  Barclays accepted the provisional  decision and had 
nothing further  to add.
my decision
I dont uphold  Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  by 21 December 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54327202provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a credit card in 
2003. Ms W says that Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Ws complaint should be upheld  but I currently dont think it should. 
I know this will be disappointing for Ms W, so Ill explain  why.
Ms W says that she had no idea that the PPI existed on her account  and our adjudicator upheld her 
complaint because they didnt  think Barclays had done enough to show that Ms W was given a choice 
in taking out the PPI policy. But I think its likely Barclays made it clear that Ms W didnt have to take 
out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this as 
it was so long ago. 
I say this because Barclays has provided  a sample  of the kind of credit card application  that Ms W 
wouldve completed  at the time  and I can see that PPI was presented as an optional  product, and 
she wouldve  had to select it for it to be added to her account. I havent seen anything  to suggest that 
Barclays followed a different process with Ms W.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Ms W, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, she wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for 
the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But as I think its likely she chose to take it out - it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So, I dont  think  better  information about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the 
cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said, but these points dont change  my decision.  
other considerations
In 2017, following  a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), issued some 
rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure  of commission 
where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI policy   
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer,  then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So, to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back 
the amount of commission and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules  and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair  relationship provisions  in the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added  to the Consumer 
Credit Act in 2006  came  into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made  in 2006 explained  that the 
Ref: DRN54327203unfair relationship  provisions  would only apply to credit agreements  taken out on or after 6 April 2007, 
or agreements taken  out before then, which  were  still running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Barclays has given me information that shows Ms Ws credit card was taken out in 2003 and ended  in 
2005. So, based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair  relationship provisions  in the 
Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules  and guidance made by the FCA in 
relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply  here.
So, Barclays  doesnt need to refund any of the commission Ms W paid for the PPI she had with her 
credit card.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont intend on upholding  this complaint.  Barclays and Ms W can send me anything  else 
they wish me to consider  before 14 November 2019. After which  I will issue  my final decision.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5432720