K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that Kapama Limited unfairly administered his account concerning the 
amount and validity of the debt.
Background
Mr C took out a loan for £100 with lender  M in November 2012.  M entered liquidation and 
Mr Cs debt was sold to Kapama Limited.  Mr Cs account balance with Kapama  now totals 
£1,061.
Mr C wrote to Kapama and raised a number of issues  in relation to his account. He asked 
Kapama for evidence  that this debt was enforceable. Mr C said the original loan was 
unaffordable and he was unhappy with the amount of interest and charges applied  to the 
account.
Mr C also queried the Notice of Assignment,  which  he said Kapama sent after the deadline 
set by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA). Mr C asked  Kapama to write of his debt and 
remove any record of it from his credit  file.
Kapama didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  It provided  evidence of Mr Cs loan agreement,  and 
said it sent the Notice of Assignment before the deadline. It offered to reduce Mr Cs balance 
to £530.50 as a full and final settlement of the debt.
Mr C didnt accept Kapamas  offer and referred the complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked at everything  and recommended  that Kapama needed to do more concerning 
Mr Cs account. She found there were a number of issues our service  couldnt consider as 
they happened when the original lender owned the debt.  She was satisfied  Kapama  had 
sent a Notice  of Assignment  in the correct  timeframe. And she said only a court  could 
declare this debt as unenforceable.
But our investigator thought Kapama should  have  noticed that most of the balance  on Mr Cs 
account was made  up of interest and charges. She asked Kapama  to remove a total of £715 
from the outstanding balance, leaving a total of £346 to pay.
Kapama accepted our investigators findings.  Mr C disagreed. He said he hadnt  received the 
Notice of Assignment  before  the deadline. He said the evidence  Kapama provided to show 
theyd sent it was fraudulent. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsmans  decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding this 
complaint and for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Our investigator has already explained why our service cannot consider Mr Cs complaint 
points about unaffordable lending, and the enforceability of the debt, so I wont repeat their 
findings here. Ill look at Kapamas actions since it purchased the debt in December 2014.
Ref: DRN59200502Interest and charges on the account
Ive checked the breakdown of Mr Cs outstanding balance  of £1,061. And I can see that a 
large portion of this debt is made up of charges. Following our investigators view,  Kapama 
has now agreed to waive  £665 of charges, which it agreed were excessive in proportion  to 
the amount Mr C borrowed,  and a second default  charge of £50.
Of the remaining  balance,  I agree with our investigator that Mr C should repay the loan 
principal and the interest on this as he has had benefit of the funds. I also agree that Mr C 
should repay the remaining charges on the account.  The remaining charges are £100  for 
debt collection charges, and a £25 default  charge. I think these charges are reasonable for 
Mr C to repay and not excessive for agreements of this type.  Mr C did borrow  the money  and 
default so it was fair for some interest  and charges to be added  because of that. So based 
on everything Ive seen I dont think Kapama  needs to waive any more  fees or reduce the 
balance further.
Did Kapama send a Notice of Assignment?
Mr C says he first received a Notice of Assignment in January 2015  by email. He says this 
was outside of the timeframe set by the FCA under an application for voluntary variation and 
cancellation of permission. He thinks the debt should be written  off. 
Lender M needed to assign the debt to Kapama  by 29 December 2014. Kapama  says it sent 
a Notice of Assignment by post on 20 December 2014, which  was within  the timeframe set. 
It then followed this with an email version in January 2015. Ive seen screenshots  that show 
the Notice of Assignment  was sent on 20 December, and the address Kapama held was the 
same as Mr C used  to bring  the complaint to our service. 
Mr C says the evidence  Kapama has provided is fraudulent. But he hasnt said why this is or 
provided anything  further to support  this statement. I appreciate Mr C feels strongly about 
this point, but I havent seen any reason to doubt  the evidence provided  by Kapama. So 
based on this Im satisfied  this letter  was sent in time.
As I think  it more likely that Kapama sent a Notice of Assignment to Mr C before  the 
deadline, Im not going to require it to do anything further than what  has already been agreed 
with our investigator.
Ref: DRN59200503My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Kapama Limited to:
Remove £715 of charges from the outstanding  balance to reduce it to £346
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5920050