K823xcomplaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund around £25,000 that 
has been fraudulently taken from his account since 2008.
background 
Mr S opened  an account with HSBC in 2008.  He has been in and out of prison and other 
detention centres multiple times  over the past decade  and says that around £25,000 of his 
money has been taken  from his account in transactions which  he did not authorise.  He says 
he has not made any transactions since he opened the account in 2008, and he reported  the 
alleged unauthorised transactions to HSBC  in April 2018.
HSBC said the account was closed  in April 2014. They said they had not been  told that Mr S 
had been incarcerated, and that he had unduly delayed reporting  the disputed  transactions  
as they sent statements to his registered address. They therefore said they could not be held 
liable for the transactions  under the Payment Service Regulations (PSR) 2009.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She was satisfied that he could have 
reported the disputed transactions sooner, as there had been times when he had been out 
of prison and ought to have seen the transactions on his account.  So the investigator did not 
think HSBC had unreasonably declined to refund  the money based on Mr Ss failure to notify 
them within 13 months as required  under  the PSRs 2009.
Mr S disagreed, so the matter has been  escalated to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Regulation 59 of the PSRs 2009 sets out that a payment service  user is only entitled  to 
redress if they notify the payment service  provider without undue delay, and in any event no 
later than 13 months after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or 
incorrectly executed  payment  transaction,
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ss account  also specifies that the customer  must report  
unauthorised transactions within 13 months:
26.4 Unauthorised  transactions
You must read your statements carefully  on receipt or when they are available  online.  
To help us prevent fraud, you must  tell us immediately  by calling us if you do not 
recognise any transaction shown on your statement or if you think any payment you 
have authorised has been executed incorrectly. If you do not tell us promptly (at 
the latest within  13 months of the date the transaction was deducted from your 
account), you may not be entitled to have any errors corrected . [My emphasis 
added].
HSBC relied upon  the above  term to decline  Mr Ss fraud claim, so Ive considered if theyve 
done so fairly and reasonably.
Ref: DRN62630792Mr Ss account was closed by HSBC in April 2014  so no transactions  were carried  out after 
that point, and it appears that the last transaction made on the account was on 10 March 
2014 (which Mr S claims was unauthorised, as he says he did not execute any transactions 
since the account was opened  in 2008). 
HSBC say they sent statements to the registered  address they held for Mr S since 
November 2010,  so they say he ought  to have  been aware that transactions were being 
carried out on his account, and that he could have reported them  sooner than 2018. 
However, Mr S says he didnt receive these statements as he was incarcerated  for multiple 
periods over the past decade. He hasnt been able to provide us with the exact times he was 
detained, but I can see that he was released  on multiple occasions before his account  was 
closed in April 2014. He says he told HSBC when  he was in prison, but they have no records  
of any telephone calls or correspondence from Mr S informing them of this fact. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  were  made aware of his incarceration,  or that they had any cause to 
believe he wouldnt receive  his statements  if they were sent to his registered  address. 
Given that there is no evidence of Mr S informing HSBC of his circumstances or a change  of 
address, they were  sent to, I consider  at the very least that he is deemed  to have 
constructive notice of the transactions presented on his statements as they were sent to the 
address he had told HSBC to send them to. In any event, Mr S later told this service  that he 
did check his statements when he came  out of prison in 2013,  so Im further satisfied  that he 
was receiving his statements, and that he ought to have seen that there were transactions 
being made on his account as were reflected on those statements. He says there was 
£25,000 in his account when he went back into prison in 2014, and then realised this had 
been taken in 2015. But there is no evidence of any such amount either being deposited or 
withdrawn from Mr Ss account during this time, and neither is there  any evidence that the 
statements provided by HSBC are fraudulent or have been doctored as he has alleged.    
Mr S says he found out his account  had been  closed when he was subsequently released  
from prison again in 2015  which is the first point he says he noticed  fraudulent  activity  on 
his account. But even by this reckoning, he still failed to report  it to HSBC within 13 months 
and has given no reasonable explanation as to why he delayed reporting anything  until April 
2018. I appreciate  there were various  periods where  he was detained, but seemingly he 
could have reported the alleged fraud  to HSBC  in 2013 when he says he checked his 
statements, or in 2015  when  he says he realised his account  had been closed and there  
were no funds remaining. 
Im therefore  satisfied that Mr S unduly delayed  notifying HSBC  of the unauthorised 
transactions and failed  to do so within 13 months of becoming aware of the alleged 
fraudulent activity, as is required  by the terms and conditions of his account as well as 
Regulation 59 of the PSRs 2009. Im also persuaded  that this delay has prejudiced  HSBCs  
ability to investigate any instances of alleged fraud as theyve said they no longer hold 
sufficient information  to conduct such an investigation due to the time that has passed. Im 
therefore satisfied  that HSBC  have fairly  declined to refund the disputed transactions  on 
Mr Ss account as a result  of his failure  to notify  the bank without undue  delay  when he 
became aware  of the fraud. It follows that I will not be asking them  to take any further action.
my decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN62630793Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6263079