K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc didnt help when he was in financial difficulty.
background
Mr H visited Bank of Scotland  in January 2018  to make a credit  card payment. He asked  to 
speak to a financial  adviser because he was struggling with the repayments. But he was told 
there wasnt anything  the bank  could do to help because he was unemployed at the time. 
Mr H said hed been badly  injured during two separate accidents and suffered from stress. 
So he felt Bank  of Scotland couldve done more to help him. He wants the bank to reduce 
his debt. And he wants some help and support with the remaining balance.
Bank of Scotland said it didnt have details  of the meeting Mr H had with its adviser  in 
January 2018.  But he shouldve been referred to its money management team.  When  Mr H 
spoke to the bank in October 2018 it could see he was making his monthly  payments. And 
he wasnt in arrears. So the bank said it couldnt  help him further. He didnt meet  the criteria 
for its customer priority  team. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Bank of Scotlands  response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She felt the bank couldve done more to help Mr H when 
they spoke in January 2018.  And she could see the issue was causing Mr H a lot of distress.  
But she didnt think Bank of Scotland had treated Mr H unfairly.  The banks policy  was to 
help vulnerable customers when they were in arrears. And Mr H had been able to make  his 
monthly payments  on time. 
Mr H didnt agree. Bank of Scotland hadnt  followed its procedure  for vulnerable customers 
in financial difficulty.  So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how distressing this mustve been  for Mr H. Hes trying to manage  his credit 
card account. But hes unable to work. And he feels Bank of Scotland  should do more to 
help him. Although hes been able to reduce  the balance, Mr H says hes had to use savings 
to do so. So Ive looked carefully at everything  Mr H and Bank of Scotland have said.
Mr H believes  the bank  shouldve treated  him as a vulnerable customer. His income was 
reduced after serious injury. But he says the meeting with Bank of Scotland  was a waste  of 
time. The bank said it couldnt help him.
I can see the bank  did refer Mr H to its money management team later in the year when he 
complained about the treatment hed received. It reviewed his income  and expenditure and 
looked at how Mr H had managed his account. Mr Hs account hadnt been placed  in default. 
And he wasnt in arrears. So the bank said he didnt meet the criteria for its customer priority 
programme. 
Ref: DRN67465522Its not the role of this service to tell banks how to run their business. Thats the role of its 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. The bank has policies and criteria in place to 
determine which customers  it refers  to specialist teams.  And I cant tell Bank of Scotland  to 
change its procedures. I can only look to see if the bank has made any mistakes.
Its clear Mr H has made great efforts, in difficult circumstances, to lower the balance on his 
account. Hes made  his contractual monthly  payments without getting into arrears.  And hes 
used savings to make reductions  in the overall  balance. But unfortunately Mr Hs efforts 
mean he isnt eligible  for help from the banks customer priority service. 
If a customer is falling behind on payments  the bank will review  how the account is being 
managed. And it may take steps to help the customer manage  the debt, such as suspending 
the account and any further charges. But its important  to realise this may also affect the 
customers credit rating.
The ombudsmans role is to see if the bank has done something wrong. And if so what it 
needs to do to put things  right. But Ive not seen  anything  to suggest Bank of Scotland has 
applied the interest  or charges incorrectly. And I cant say the bank has used its policies 
unfairly towards Mr H.
I do sympathise with the situation Mr H finds himself in. And Mr H should be commended for 
continuing to manage his finances in such difficult circumstances.  Im aware he is concerned 
that his savings will run out and he will be difficulty in the future. And I can see our 
investigator has given  Mr H the details of a number of organisations who may be able to help 
him. But, based on what Ive seen, I cant  ask Bank  of Scotland to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6746552