K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Elevate  Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny)  irresponsibly lent 
to him. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 24 January 2020. A copy  of my provisional decision  is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  in full  loans one to seven  and what  I think Sunny should do 
to put things right.
Mr T accepted my provisional decision.
Sunny responded. It didnt agree with my provisional  decision and made several points 
which I refer to below.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website.
In my provisional decision I disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  who only partially  
upheld the complaint. He thought that it wasnt unreasonable not to uphold loans one to six 
but he did uphold  loan seven. Sunny agreed  with this and made an offer but Mr T didnt 
accept it.
When reaching the conclusion in my provisional  decision, I had done  so after reviewing the 
information that Sunny had given us. At the point it lent loan one, Sunnys credit  check  
showed it that Mr T had an active short-term  loan in place of £500. It told Sunny that he had 
borrowed two short-term  loans with a total value £900 in the past month, and that he 
appeared to have repaid  £566 towards  these  in the previous  month. Further, the credit  check 
showed Sunny that Mr T had borrowed three short-term  loans totalling  £1,302  in the 
previous three months, and that he had a history  of other short-term  loans.
In error, I suggested the £900  of short-term loans Mr T held would need to be repaid during 
loan ones term. And from the information  that was available to Sunny on its credit check, I 
thought his history  of short-term lending should have  flagged to Sunny enough of a concern 
for it to have built up a more in-depth  picture of Mr Ts financial position before it lent to him. 
If it had done so, I thought it would have found he was having problems managing his 
finances and that loan one was to be unsustainable for him. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Sunny has said it was aware  the report did show  
Mr T had previous borrowings and one active  short-term loan, but that the figure of £900  I 
used in provisional decision was incorrect. It explained that Mr T only had £500 of active  
short-term loans at the time of loan one, and not £900 as I had suggested. It also said it had 
asked enough  questions about  Mr Ts outgoings  and he had sufficient disposable income  to 
Ref: DRN60289622meet his credit commitments. Mr T wasnt  showing signs  of dependency on short-term  
borrowing and no clear  pattern that he was in a circle of debt.  
Mr T had maintained his repayments, which Sunny said should be a consideration when 
looking at the sustainability of borrowing and there was no evidence  he was experiencing 
financial difficulties.
I have again reviewed the affordability data that Sunny has given us from when it started 
lending to Mr T. As explained above,  it shows Mr T had taken two short-term loans in the 
previous month,  three in the previous three  months but also four in the last six months, 
which was a clear indication to Sunny that Mr T was a regular user of short-term lending.  
And so I believe Sunny  should have considered looking into this further.  
I would reiterate that Mr T had a relatively modest  income of just over £1,200 and as far as 
Sunny was aware from its credit check results for loan one, he was due to make  a 
repayment of at least £500 in the following month.  This £500 repayment would already 
account for approximately  42% of what Sunny understood Mr Ts income to be, and that is 
without seemingly taking  into account  the cost of any interest on this amount, essential 
outgoings he may have had, or the flex credit repayment of £143  per month he was applying 
for which would  need  servicing. (The flex credit  repayment combined with Mr Ts existing 
short-term loan cost would have comprised 54% of what Sunny knew of his income.)  
So, from the information Sunny has given us, I think its clear that it would have been 
appropriate for it to have  found out more about Mr Ts financial position  before agreeing  to 
loan one. 
The credit report Mr T has given  us shows that in June 2014  the same  month he applied 
for the flex credit account  he had already taken three short-term  loans, the £500  that 
Sunnys credit check had already identified and additional short-term borrowing from another 
lender of approximately £750 without allowing for interest on this amount.
So in total,  even before Mr T applied for the first Sunny loan, he had already borrowed 
around £1,250  in short-term loans that month, which I feel Sunny would have likely identified 
had it carried out proportionate checks before loan one. 
But because Sunny didnt look further into Mr Ts financial position it wasnt  aware of this and 
as a consequence lent to Mr T when  it shouldnt have   at a time when I think it would have 
been clear,  with the right level of checks,  that Mr T wasnt in the position  to sustainably repay 
the debt, and when his then current borrowing would have suggested he was already likely 
to have been persistently reliant  upon  short-term lending. 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint for all of his borrowing  loans  one to 
seven. The lending shouldnt  have  been  given bearing in mind Mr Ts financial 
circumstances about which  Sunny  should have made sure it was aware. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  one to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN60289623remove any negative information  about loans one to six from Mr Ts credit file;
remove all information about loan seven from Mr Ts credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I fully uphold Mr Ts complaint  and Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60289624copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr T say Elevate  Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny  (Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
The complaint is about one flex credit and six short-term loans Sunny provided  to Mr T between June  
2014 and December 2015. Mr Ts short-term lending his is as follows (I have rounded to the nearest 
pound):
loan 
numberdate taken amountmonthly 
instalmentshighest 
monthly 
repaymentdate ended
1 28/06/2014flex credit account  with a credit limit of 
£35030/01/2015
2 16/01/2015 £300 6 £89 30/06/2015
 3* 12/03/2015 £400 6 £212 28/08/2015
 4* 15/04/2015 £200 6 £272 30/09/2015
 5* 11/05/2015 £400 6 £398 30/10/2015
 6* 20/07/2015 £500 6 £456 31/12/2015
 7* 19/12/2015 £250 6 £74 01/06/2016
*Loans running concurrently
Prior to taking loan 2, Mr T had a flex credit agreement (loan 1) for up to £350.00. He used this three 
times between June  and November 2014 and the agreement ran for seven months.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint. He didnt think  that loans 1 to 6 should  be upheld.  
Even though  he thought Sunny should have taken steps to build a more detailed picture  of Mr Ts 
financial situation, he hadnt seen anything in the information provided to him which suggested Sunny  
would have known Mr T wouldnt have  been  able to sustainably make the loan repayments.  
Our adjudicator did think that the overall  pattern of Mr Ts borrowing by loan 7 suggested he was 
becoming persistently reliant on short-term loans. He didnt think loan 7 should have been given as it 
wasnt sustainable. 
Sunny agreed with the adjudicator and made an offer of redress. But Mr T didnt agree. 
As the complaint remains  unresolved it has been passed to me for decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general  approach to complaints 
about short-term lending  including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice  on 
our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr T could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure.
Ref: DRN60289625But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a consumers  income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given  loans (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish  whether  
Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a 
lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what  this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Sunny has made  an offer of compensation  in respect of loan 7. I agree with the offer made 
and so I wont  consider this loan further as there doesnt seem to be any ongoing 
disagreement about this loan. 
Sunny has given us copies of its credit checks so this shows the information Sunny was aware of, 
before it agreed  to lend to Mr T.
At that time of the first loan the credit report showed Mr T had paid a total of £500 on short-term  
loan repayments in the previous month. The report also showed Mr T had short-term loans with a 
value of £900  in the previous month. So, this would  need repaying in the future as well. Mr T was 
earning the relatively modest income  of just over £1,200 but Sunny hasnt shown me it asked any 
questions about essential household  outgoings  mortgage/rent, food, utilities etc. For Mr T to 
continue making his short-term loan repayments, this would have taken  a significant percentage of 
his income  and this is without taking into account any fixed outgoings. 
So, I think at this point Sunny should have asked Mr T more pertinent questions about his 
personal finances.  If it had done so it would have recognised that Mr T was using various other 
short-term lenders - as well as Sunny. Mr T had been doing so for some time and he was 
borrowing and repaying significant amounts to these. In my view his short-term borrowing was 
becoming unsustainable and it was a likelihood Mr T was persistently reliant on short-term 
borrowing to manage his day-to-day finances. 
Taking all of this into consideration, if it had looked to Mr T for more fundamental and relevant 
information about his personal finances, I think Sunny  would  have concluded  that Mr T was having  
problems managing  his finances and was already  in a circle of debt - which was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN60289626In conclusion, I provisionally  agree that loan 1 (the flex credit agreement) and loans 2 through to 7 
shouldnt have been offered bearing in mind Mr Ts financial circumstances of which I think Sunny 
should have made sure it was aware. 
putting things  right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  1 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans  1 to 6 from Mr Ts credit file;
remove all information  about loan 7 from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr T a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN6028962