K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited (trading  as Very) has applied 
interest to her account incorrectly. She says she purchased items  on buy now pay later 
(BNPL) and so she shouldnt be paying  interest until the end of the BNPL  period.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I will not repeat  them  again 
here. The facts are not in dispute  so I will focus on giving  the reasons for my decision.
 my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of the Very account  explain  that interest is charged on 
items that cant be bought on BNPL terms, this includes delivery charges. Very has 
provided details  about Miss Js account  statement and I appreciate Miss J has said 
she only ordered items using BNPL, from the statements provided I can see that 
there were items on the statement that werent caught by the BNPL term. The 
balance on these  items accrued interest required a minimum payment within the 
statement cycle of 28 days. This information  is contained within the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
Very has provided  the customer journey example that Miss J would have gone 
through while making her orders on the website.  The journey shows  that Miss J was 
required to allocate payments towards  her BNPL balance as this wouldnt  be done 
automatically. The terms and conditions also explain how the payments would be 
allocated if Miss J didnt allocate  them herself.  Miss J didnt allocate  her payments 
prior to her conversation with an agent  at Very in January  2019 and so the default 
allocation of payments  took place. I dont think Very acted unfairly by allocating  Miss 
Js payments by default in line with the terms and conditions.  I think it was 
reasonable for Very to offer to reallocate Miss Js payments for July and August 2018  
as a gesture of goodwill.  
Very accepted that its adviser who spoke to Miss J could have done better to explain 
that she was due to make a payment in April 2019.  Ive listened to call, and I agree 
that the call could have gone  better. Very has offered Miss J £50 for this and I dont 
think thats unfair. Miss J should contact Very if she wished to accept the offer.
Overall, Very hasnt acted unfairly towards Miss J as I havent seen evidence  to show 
that it charged her interest when it shouldnt have, and Im satisfied that Miss J was 
provided information about the account in the terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN65625882For these reasons, although  I understand Miss J feels strongly about what has happened, 
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  Miss Js complaint about Shop Direct Finance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2021.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6562588