K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc didnt off-set  the damage to his car against  
his excess following a claim  against  his motor insurance policy. And then cancelled a 
subsequent policy.
Mr K is represented in bringing this complaint by his mother, Mrs K, but for ease Ill refer to 
all actions and comments as being those of Mr K. 
Reference to Pinnacle includes its agent. 
background
Mr Ks policy  has a £3,000 all sections excess which means hes responsible for the first 
£3,000 of any claim he makes or is made against  his policy. In 2014 Mr K was involved in an 
accident with another  driver. He reported the accident to Pinnacle  but said the other  driver  
was to blame. Pinnacle wrote to Mr K and asked for some documents  which  he said he sent, 
including an estimate of £2,976.73 for repairs to his car. 
The other driver thought the accident was Mr Ks fault. And after considering the information 
it had available  Pinnacle suggested  both Mr K and the other  driver should  split the blame on 
a 50/50 basis.  Pinnacle didnt  receive a response  from the other drivers insurer. And as the 
damage to Mr Ks car was less than the £3,000 he didnt claim for it. 
Mr K decided to take the other  driver  to court to claim for the cost of his repairs.  But he lost 
his claim in 2016 and the other  driver successfully claimed against him. So Pinnacle had to 
pay the other drivers claim of £2,444.72. This was made up of £1,752.17 for the other  
drivers repair costs and £692.55  for legal and other  costs.
Pinnacle asked  Mr K to pay this amount as it fell within his £3,000 excess.  Mr K didnt think  
this was fair as he should have been able to off-set the cost of his own repairs  in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Pinnacle asked Mr K for a copy  of his driving  licence and 
National Insurance number that it said it hadnt previously received, as well as photos of the 
damage. 
Mr K sent a copy of his driving licence but said his car had been  repaired so he didnt have  
any photos of the damage.  Mr K said he received an email to say if he provided  a copy  of his 
driving licence  the damage would be off-set. He said he sent the documents  but received 
further emails over the next few days  saying  his policy would  be cancelled if he didnt 
provide the documents,  while also receiving  other  emails thanking  him for sending them. 
Pinnacle cancelled  the policy as it said it hadnt received the documents but then reinstated 
it. 
Pinnacle said it wasnt able to validate Mr Ks claim as the driving  licence was issued after 
the date of his claim and it didnt have pictures  of the damage. So he couldnt  off-set  the 
damage from his excess. It asked  Mr K to pay £2,444.72.
Mr K said he couldnt afford  to pay this amount in one go and set up a payment plan. 
Pinnacle cancelled  his policy because it said he wouldnt be able to afford to pay his excess  
in the event of another claim. It said the terms and conditions  of the policy  allowed it to do 
this. 
Ref: DRN68327822Mr K didnt think hed been  treated fairly by Pinnacle and brought his complaint to us in 
October 2017. He told us hed had his car repaired at a cost of £2,976.73. Our adjudicator 
asked Mr K to provide  a copy of his repair invoice.  He sent the invoice which  showed  he paid 
£1,720 for his repairs in November 2014.  He said hed had the parts  repaired rather  than 
replaced which meant the repairs werent  as good as they should have been.
After our adjudicator had issued her view upholding the complaint I contacted Mr K and 
Pinnacle to let them know I intended to reach  a different outcome to the adjudicator. I said 
Pinnacle hadnt had the opportunity to validate  Mr Ks claim in 2015  as it didnt know  he was 
taking the claim to court. I also said it was difficult for Pinnacle to now accurately consider 
the damage to Mr Ks car as hed given us the incorrect information about  how much hed 
paid for repairs when he came to us. So I didnt think Pinnacle needed to allow Mr K to off-
set the damage  against what he owed under his excess. But I thought it should remove  any 
record of an enforced  cancellation as Mr K had set up a payment plan. 
Pinnacle accepted  my provisional findings but Mr K didnt.  He said hed paid for repairs so 
these should be off-set against what he owes. He also said Pinnacle  had opportunity  to 
validate his claim and had told him it would off-set the damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
depart from my provisional findings.  Ill now explain why.
excess
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ks policy say hes responsible for the first £3,000  of any 
claim made against him. However from this he can off-set any damage  to his own car that he 
doesnt claim for as long as the damage is validated by Pinnacles assessor.
Pinnacle said it wasnt able to validate Mr Ks claim because it doesnt have a copy  of his 
driving licence  from 2014  or pictures of the damage. The letter  Pinnacle  sent Mr K in 2014 
asked for a copy of his repair  invoice. It didnt tell him he might need  any pictures of the 
damage. Mr K said he sent in a copy of his driving  licence  at the time.
While I appreciate Pinnacle didnt chase a copy of Mr Ks driving licence  in 2014 it didnt 
think it needed to because the cost of repairing the damage was less than his excess.  So 
Mr K wasnt  claiming on his policy. It seems to have been Mr Ks choice to have pursued the 
other driver in court and he didnt tell Pinnacle  he was going to do that. In not telling  Pinnacle  
about that claim I think its prejudiced Pinnacles  position as it wasnt able to make sure it 
had all the information it needed to assess his claim to off-set any damage. Its also had to 
pay the costs associated with going  to court which it might not have had to do if Mr K hadnt 
taken the case  to court. If Pinnacle had known Mr K was taking the other driver to court it 
would have been able to get an engineer to assess his car or ask for the information it 
needed to validate his part of the claim earlier. 
I appreciate Mr K said he didnt know he needed to let Pinnacle know he was taking the 
other driver to court. But I dont think thats  Pinnacles fault.  And if Mr K had let Pinnacle 
know he was doing that it would have  been  able to take steps to validate any damage  to his 
car.
Ref: DRN68327823Mr K said he sent Pinnacle a copy of his driving licence and it could have misfiled it. But I 
dont think I need  to make a finding of that. Because even  if I accepted Mr K had sent a copy  
of his driving licence  in 2015 I dont think it matters  to the outcome of this complaint. Thats  
because I can also see that despite Mr K telling us hed paid £2,976.73 for his repairs  the 
invoice shows he paid £1,720 in 2014. I appreciate Mr K said this is because  he had to have  
parts repaired instead of replaced and he would have had further  repairs done later. But I 
also think it makes  it difficult to conclude what the damage to Mr Ks car was. Thats  because  
when he brought  his complaint to us he incorrectly told us the amount hed paid for repairs  
was higher than the amount hed actually paid. 
I dont think Pinnacle can reasonably  assess  the damage caused to Mr Ks car in the 
accident now. And I dont  think thats  Pinnacles fault as it didnt know it needed to inspect 
his car. For that reason  Im not going to ask Pinnacle to off-set any damage Mr K said 
happened to his car in the accident.  
cancellation
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ks policy allow Pinnacle to cancel his policy  if he isnt able 
to pay the outstanding excess  he owes. There was clearly  confusion on Pinnacles  part 
about the information it received from Mr K but it ultimately cancelled his policy because he 
wasnt able to pay £2,444.72 in full.
While the terms of the policy allow Pinnacle  to cancel  if Mr K isnt able to pay the full amount 
of his excess I dont  think  that produces  a fair outcome here. Due to the implications  of 
having a cancelled policy I dont think its fair and reasonable for a policyholder  to have  a 
cancellation marker on their record purely because they arent able to pay their excess  in 
full, particularly when  theyve offered to set up a payment plan. I understand Mr K now has a 
new policy so Pinnacle isnt required to cover him going forward. But I think  it would be fair 
and reasonable for it to remove the cancellation  marker from his policy.
I understand it would  have been frustrating for Mr K to have been given conflicting  
information from Pinnacle about whether hed be able to off-set his claim as well as about  his 
policy being cancelled.  But Im not going  to ask Pinnacle to compensate  Mr K because  Im 
satisfied having  the cancellation  removed from his record  is enough to produce a fair 
outcome in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Pinnacle Insurance  Plc to 
remove the cancellation marker  from Mr Ks policy on any internal or external databases. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6832782