K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd didnt warn her that her motor 
insurance policy would move to another insurer when she passed her driving test. This 
meant her premiums increased and she lost her no claims discount (NCD). She wants  a 
refund of the extra costs she paid. Miss C is represented in this matter by her mother, Mrs C. 
background
Mrs C took out a learner policy for Miss C through Herts Insurance  Consultants Ltd. This had 
to be cancelled when  Miss C passed  her test. Miss Cs new cover  meant  that she didnt  have 
a years NCD and her premiums increased.  Mrs C was unhappy  with this. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Herts  
Insurance Consultants  Ltd had reasonably warned Mrs C that the policy would have to be 
cancelled when Miss C passed her test and a new one found. She thought  Mrs C was aware 
of this as shed shopped around for the best quote. 
Mrs C replied that Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd had moved insurers  and Miss C had lost 
her NCD.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mrs Cs central  concern was that she wasnt warned by Herts Insurance Consultants  
Ltd that when  Miss C passed her test there  would  be a change of insurers.  Her old policy  
would be cancelled and, as she hadnt completed a full year,  she wouldnt be entitled  to NCD 
for the seven months shed been  insured. Mrs C said other insurers would let the policy run 
so that NCD entitlement wouldnt be affected.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I can see that Miss Cs policy contains  a section under Important  Information that says the 
policy must be cancelled  when she passes her test. Theres no provision for continuation. 
This was explained to Mrs C when  she bought the policy through  a phone  call with Herts  
Insurance Consultants  Ltd. So I think Mrs C was made reasonably aware that the policy 
would have to cancel when Miss C passed her test.
Mrs C said that when  she called Herts  Insurance Consultants Ltd when Miss C passed her 
test, she should  have been  given  a choice to continue the policy  and so gain a years NCD. 
But I think Mrs C was then aware  that the policy would  have  to cancel. She said shed 
shopped around for a new one and accepted Herts Insurance Consultants  Ltds  quote. So I 
cant say Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd should have offered her a choice  to continue the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN67169512The new policy  was with a different  provider  and Herts Insurance  Consultants  Ltd didnt tell 
Mrs C this in the call. But the insurer is stated  on the policy certificates and I think  Mrs C 
could have cancelled  the policy within the 14 day cooling off period if she was unhappy with 
this. In any case, I dont  think  this disadvantaged  Mrs C as there was no option for 
continuing with the previous insurer. 
Because Miss C hadnt completed a years driving under her learner  policy, she wasnt 
entitled to a years  NCD. I think this is common industry practice and so I cant say this was 
unfair or unreasonable. 
And so I think Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd made Mrs C reasonably  aware at the outset 
that the policy would have  to cancel after Miss C passed her test. This meant  that Miss C 
wouldnt keep her NCD entitlement  if it was less than a year.  Mrs C could have shopped  
around for a policy that would continue after Miss C had passed her test if that better suited 
her needs.  So I cant  say that Herts  Insurance Consultants Ltd has made an error or needs 
to pay Miss C any compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6716951