K821x#15complaint
Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited  (trading as Torch Wealth Management  Torch) 
advised Mrs B to transfer her existing pension. Mrs B has complained about that advice and 
the portfolio of investments Torch recommended.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in the provisional 
decision I issued in June  2019 (copy attached).  
Torch responded  to say its only concern was about  the calculation of potential loss. Torch 
said that in previous cases the ombudsman had allowed  it to calculate the value of the fund 
in which  the consumer had originally been  invested. Information on historical  prices  is 
available. 
Mrs B confirmed she had nothing to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received  no further responses about  the merits of the complaint, I have no reason to 
depart from the findings in my provisional  decision. I have, however, considered  Torchs  
points about the method of redress I proposed to apply in this case. 
Mrs B approached, or was introduced  to, Torch for advice about her pension benefits. She 
wanted to know  if her existing plan was still relevant for her. For the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, Mrs B shouldnt  have been advised to transfer  away  from this plan. 
But the provider  of her plan has told us it isnt able to calculate the nominal value of the plan 
had Mrs B not transferred. In addition, she may not have  continued  to invest in exactly the 
same way had she received suitable  advice. As I noted in my provisional decision, a 
sizeable proportion of her pension fund was being held in cash, and I couldnt see any 
obvious reason  for this. 
In the circumstances, it remains my view that the FTSE UK Private  Investor  Income Total 
Return Index provides  a reasonable proxy for the type of returns  Mrs B could have  received  
with suitable advice. 
fair compensation
Torch should undertake  the following:
1.Calculate the value  of Mrs Bs original  pension plan as at the date of my final 
decision had it been invested in line with the FTSE UK Private  Investor Income Total  
Return Index. 
2.Calculate the value  as at the date of my final decision  of the portion of the pension 
fund invested  in the Aggressive Model Portfolio had it been invested  in line with the 
FTSE UK Private  Investors Stock Market Global  Growth Index.
Ref: DRN650101323.Establish the portion of the pension fund which remained in cash as at the date of my 
final decision. 
The loss is 1  (2 + 3). 
I should make Mrs B aware that its possible the above calculation may not show a financial 
loss. If there is a loss, Torch should  pay into Mrs Bs pension  plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation  should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If Torch is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Bs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs B would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Any loss should  be paid within 28 days of Torch being notified of Mrs Bs acceptance  of my 
final decision. If its paid later,  Torch should add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
my decision  to the date of payment.  
Separate from, and additional  to, the above,  Torch should pay Mrs B the sum of £300 for the 
trouble and upset  shes  been caused by the advice to transfer her pension  benefits. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited to compensate 
Mrs B as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65010133COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Economic Financial  Solutions IFA Limited (trading  as Torch Wealth  Management   Torch) advised 
Mrs B to transfer her existing pension. Mrs B has complained  about that advice and the portfolio of 
investments Torch recommended
background
At the time of the advice in July 2015, Mrs B was 44 years old and married with one dependant. She 
was self-employed in the retail sector earning £18,000 a year. She had a personal pension  plan 
valued at just over £41,000,  and £5,000 held on deposit jointly with her husband but no other 
recorded investments.  
Torch assessed Mrs Bs attitude to risk as very  high (9 on a scale of 1-10), but it seems this was 
subsequently reduced to 7 (highest medium).
Torch recommended a transfer into a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). The full value  would be 
invested by a stockbroker under its discretionary  management. Torch  recommended the 
stockbrokers Aggressive  Model Portfolio as a being  suitable for Mrs B. Torch  said the SIPP was more  
expensive than her existing plan. But it said the transfer was appropriate as the SIPP offered a wider 
investment choice and greater flexibility.
The transfer  took place  and £41,808 was transferred into the SIPP. Of this, £38,800 was passed to 
the stockbroker to invest. The remainder was placed  in a cash account.
Between October 2015 and November  2016, Torch was in communication  with the stockbroker and 
SIPP provider over concerns  that the stockbroker wasnt investing the funds in line with the model 
portfolio.
Mrs B complained directly  to this service in August  2016. She said she was advised by Torch  to 
transfer her pension  into a SIPP and for the pension fund to be managed by the stockbroker. The 
stockbroker had invested over 98 per cent of her pension in penny shares,  and this has resulted in a 
severe loss. 
As Torch  hadnt been given the opportunity of considering the complaint, we made  it aware of Mrs Bs 
complaint. Torch responded to say that it had recommended the SIPP for the flexibility it offered and 
the Aggressive Model Portfolio  as being suitable  for Mrs Bs attitude  to risk. But the stockbroker had 
failed to invest  the monies  in line with the agreed mandate. Torch had no influence on this.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint,  and thought it should  be upheld.  He said:
He didnt  think Mrs B was prepared  to take a high risk with her pension. He noted  Mrs B had 
no other investments  and very little savings. Her income was not significant. So even if Mrs B 
wanted to take a higher risk, she didnt  have  the capacity to do so.
While  the SIPP may have been more flexible  than the existing plan, the reference to Pension 
Freedoms wasnt relevant to Mrs B. These werent  available until age 55, so wouldnt have 
been applicable to Mrs B for another ten years. 
Also,  Mrs Bs existing  plan had lower charges than the SIPP, and offered a range of funds 
Mrs B could invest in. 
Overall, there was no need to transfer, and Mrs B should have been advised to remain in her 
existing plan.  
Ref: DRN65010134But the adjudicator also recognised that the stockbroker had failed to invest  in line with the mandate 
of the Aggressive Model Portfolio. So he thought  it wouldnt  be fair to include any loss attributable to 
the stockbroker. He thought the loss using  this methodology was around £4,500,  assuming  the SIPP  
no longer held any cash. He also thought Mrs B should be paid £300 for the trouble and upset  shed  
been caused.  
Torch didnt  agree. It said that not all the funds transferred  into the SIPP  were  passed to the 
stockbroker to invest. This money was left in cash to cover the initial cost and ongoing fees.  This was 
also the case  with Mrs Bs existing plan. So it felt any redress  should take this into account.  But to 
draw matters to a close, Torch said it was willing to pay Mrs B £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Mrs B wasnt prepared  to accept the offer, and the adjudicator wrote to Torch explaining that he didnt 
agree with its comments about the cash held in Mrs Bs existing plan. 
Torch then made an increased offer of £2,657.98.  This related to the fees paid from the SIPP. Mrs B 
also rejected  this offer.  
As the matter  remains  unresolved, it has been passed to me for consideration.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  whats fair and reasonable,  Im required to take 
into account  relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules,  guidance and standards, relevant  
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the 
time.
Im aware Mrs B has also complained about the stockbrokers actions.  Thats been the subject of a 
separate claim by Mrs B which is now with the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
Although I need to take into account the interaction between Torch and the stockbroker, to avoid any 
doubt I should  stress  that my decision  here concerns  Mrs Bs complaint about  Torchs  actions and the 
extent to which they have contributed to any losses Mrs B may have incurred.
In my view,  there are three  specific questions I must answer in order to determine  whether Torch 
acted fairly and reasonably  when it advised Mrs B to move  her pension  funds to the SIPP  and invest 
them in the stockbrokers Aggressive Model  Portfolio.  This also assists me in determining whether  the 
transfer was in Mrs Bs best interests  and if not, what I consider she ought  to have been  advised to 
do instead:
firstly, was the level of risk of the recommended investment the correct  one for Mrs B? 
secondly, was the new arrangement more expensive  or less expensive than Mrs Bs previous 
pension arrangement?
and thirdly, what alternatives were open to Mrs B to meet her objectives? 
was the level  of risk of the recommended investment suitable  for Mrs B?
Mrs B completed a risk profile  questionnaire,  in which she was asked to agree or disagree  with a 
number of statements. Torch  used  this to assess Mrs Bs attitude to risk. She was found  to be 9 on a 
scale of 1 to 10. This was described as very high. 
Ref: DRN65010135Im not convinced  this was an accurate assessment. Mrs B doesnt seem to have much in the way of 
investment experience, and had limited scope for taking a high level of risk with her pension.  And as 
Ive noted above, it seems her risk profile was reduced to highest medium.  Its not clear how this 
came about, but Im also not convinced this was an accurate  assessment. 
Overall, I dont think the Aggressive Model  Portfolio was a suitable recommendation for Mrs B. The 
stockbrokers factsheet for the portfolio said it would  primarily invest in ETFs  [Exchange Traded 
Funds], quality corporate bonds, cash and other passive investments. The stockbroker used a risk 
scale of 1 to 10 and said it would anticipate the collection  of funds within the portfolio  to expose an 
investor to a level of risk in the range  of 6-7. It said the actual asset allocation as at May 2015 was 
90% international  equities  and 10% UK government debt. In my view, the portfolio  posed more risk 
than Mrs B was prepared, or in a position, to take.
was the new arrangement more or less expensive than Mrs Bs previous pension?
It doesnt  seem to be in dispute that Mrs Bs existing  plan was less expensive than the SIPP. Torch  
accepted this was the case in the suitability  report it sent Mrs B. 
what alternatives were open  to Mrs B to meet her objectives?
The suitability report notes that Mrs B had sought advice to see if her existing plan was still relevant 
and if there  was any merit in moving to a different provider. But there doesnt seem to be any 
suggestion she was unhappy with her current plan. I note that the fund she in which  she was invested 
had achieved  average  growth  of 6.79% over the previous  five years.  Torch said the fund was 
considered to represent a low risk. 
Mrs B was advised  to transfer rather than remain with her existing provider because  of the extra 
flexibility the SIPP offered. The suitability report refers  to flexibility when Mrs B starts drawing  her 
pension and also to the Pension Freedoms which the Government  was introducing. But Mrs B was 
still several years away  from when  she would be likely  to start taking her pension. She said she 
expected to be able to retire no earlier than age 65. So there was little prospect of her being  able to 
take advantage of the new freedoms in the short term. 
Also, while a SIPP will generally give access to a wider range of investment funds, Im not convinced 
this was particularly relevant  to Mrs B. I find it unlikely she would  have wanted to invest in the type of 
non-mainstream investments SIPPs  providers  sometimes allow.  Nor do I think  this type of investment 
would have been suitable  for Mrs B. 
The option of remaining in Mrs Bs current plan was discounted by Torch. But I think this was a 
reasonable approach that should have  been  considered. On the whole, Im not convinced there was 
any obvious  reason to change her current investment  strategy. But if this had been thought 
appropriate, its likely that the provider  would  have had a range of funds available  which Torch could  
have recommended.  
in summary
For all of the reasons  set out above, I dont think Torch acted fairly  and reasonably  when it advised  
Mrs B to move her pension to the new SIPP  and to invest in the stockbrokers Aggressive Model 
Portfolio. My view is that, suitably  advised, Mrs B would  have remained in her existing plan.  
Ive therefore considered how Mrs B should  be compensated for the unsuitable advice, and its here 
that I depart from the adjudicators conclusions.   
The adjudicator proposed that the portion  of Mrs Bs pension fund passed to the stockbroker should 
be removed from the calculation. I dont agree with this suggestion. 
Ref: DRN65010136The stockbrokers stated benchmark for the Aggressive  Model Portfolio was the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Stock Market  Global Growth Index. On the whole, I consider  this to be a fair and reasonable 
method for determining likely investment performance had the portfolios stated objectives  and 
investment strategy been  followed by the stockbroker.
Ive noted Torchs comments  about some  of Mrs Bs existing plan being  held in a cash account.  Mrs 
Bs existing  pension  seems to have  been  a straightforward personal pension plan. Theres no obvious  
reason why a significant sum should be held in cash. Plans  of this type would normally have all, or 
very nearly all, their monies invested in funds designed to provide a return. Holding  money in cash 
would usually only be a temporary  measure.  Further, the benchmark Im proposing  to use assumes  
some of the assets will be in cash. 
 
Torch was acting as independent financial  advisers  and could have advised Mrs B on how to invest 
her existing plan. I think suitable advice would have been for Mrs Bs pension  fund to be fully invested 
to maximise her investment  opportunities. I have  therefore taken this into account  when considering  
what would be fair compensation in this case.
I have set out how I think  Mrs B should be compensated below. 
fair compensation
The stockbroker was instructed to invest using  its Aggressive  Model Portfolio.  Mrs B has complained 
that the stockbroker  didnt actually invest the funds in line with that instruction,  and that as a result  she 
suffered further losses. Torch too has said the majority of the investments the stockbroker made  bore 
no resemblance to Torchs  judgement of the type of investment which  was suited to Mrs B. As I said 
above, theres  a separate claim  against the stockbroker and its now in the hands of the FSCS. I make 
no findings on the stockbrokers actions in this decision.
My provisional  conclusion here is that the transfer to the new SIPP and subsequent intended 
investment in the Aggressive Model Portfolio, as recommended by Torch, wasnt suitable for Mrs B in 
the first place. In my view, Mrs B should have remained in her original pension  plan and invested in a 
fund (or funds) that suited  her attitude to risk. 
Mrs Bs original pension provider has told us it is unable to calculate  what her plan would have been 
worth had she not transferred into the SIPP.  Further, Mrs B may have been advised to invest  in 
different funds. In the circumstances,  I think it would  be fair to calculate  the value of Mrs Bs original 
plan by reference to the FTSE  UK Private Investor Income Total  Return Index. 
The FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total  Return Index  is a mix of diversified  indices  representing 
different asset  classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. At the time of the transfer (when it 
was called  the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income Total Return  Index) its asset allocation  was: 35% UK 
equities, 17.5% international equities, 32.5% bonds,  5% cash,  5% commercial  property and 5% 
hedge funds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  I think this provides a reasonable proxy for the type of returns  that would have been 
achieved with suitable advice. 
Following the transfer,  most of the pension monies were due to be managed  by the stockbroker in line 
with the Aggressive Model Portfolio. For the reasons Ive explained above,  I think  a comparison with 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Stock Market Global Growth Index  would provide a reasonable proxy 
for what the portfolio  would have achieved had it been invested in line with the mandate. 
Subject to my final decision remaining the same, Torch should therefore undertake the following:
1.Calculate the value of Mrs Bs original pension plan as at the date of my final decision 
had it been invested in line with the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total Return Index. 
Ref: DRN650101372.Calculate the value as at the date of my final decision of the portion of the pension  fund 
invested in the Aggressive Model Portfolio had it been invested  in line with the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Stock Market Global  Growth Index.
3.Establish the portion  of the pension  fund which  remained in cash as at the date of my 
final decision. 
The loss is 1  (2 + 3). 
I should  make  Mrs B aware that its possible the above calculation may not show a financial loss. If 
there is a loss, Torch should  pay into Mrs Bs pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Torch is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mrs Bs pension plan, it should pay that amount  direct 
to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs Bs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mrs B would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Any loss should be paid within 28 days of Torch  being notified of Mrs Bs acceptance of my final 
decision. If its paid later, Torch should add simple interest  at 8% a year from the date of my decision  
to the date of payment. 
Separate from, and additional to, the above, Torch should pay Mrs B the sum of £300 for the trouble 
and upset shes  been  caused by the advice to transfer her pension  benefits. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited 
should pay the compensation set out above.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6501013