K822xcomplaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the amount of compensation Aviva Life Services  UK Limited has paid 
her in relation to the problems she experienced last year after changes were made to its 
investment platform.
background 
Mrs W holds a portfolio of investments with Aviva  held within  an individual  savings account 
(ISA). The underlying  investments  receive dividend payments  at regular intervals  which 
Mrs W took to supplement her retirement income.  
In January 2018 Aviva moved  its customers,  including Mrs W, to a new investment platform. 
For some  months afterwards Mrs Ws dividend income was added to her cash  account  
rather than being  paid out to her. And, in line with the portfolio terms and conditions, all 
applicable charges were  then taken from the cash account. Historically,  the charges had 
been taken by selling some of Mrs Ws investments, because  she didnt generally have any 
money in the cash account.
Mrs W complained  to Aviva about her income not being paid out. She said she had to sell 
some of her portfolio in June 2018  as a result. And she also had to use a credit card to pay 
for some items, which would not have  been necessary if the income had been  paid out.
Aviva accepted mistakes  had been  made as a result  of the platform migration. It calculated 
that Mrs W missed  out on receiving £1,430.86 in income. At the time the calculation  was 
performed her cash account had less than that in it because some of the income had already 
been used to cover the portfolio charges  which totalled approximately  £480  over the period 
in question. Aviva tells us it ended up paying  Mrs W:
£1,017 plus £4.64 loss of interest (on the £1,430.86 total missing income)
£500 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset  Mrs W had suffered.
Aviva also said it could  sell some  of Mrs Ws portfolio  to make up the difference  in the 
missed income. But Mrs W didnt  want that to happen. She said all charges  should be 
waived because Aviva  hadnt properly managed her investments. No account had been  
taken of the fact shed  had to sell some of her investments to make up the missing income. 
And she wanted Aviva to pay her a further £430.
Our investigator thought Aviva had done  enough  to put things right. But Mrs W didnt agree, 
so the case has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was it fair of Aviva to take charges from Mrs Ws portfolio  while the problem with her income 
payments was going on?
The portfolio  terms and conditions set out what charges may be taken at outset  and over the 
life of the portfolio. Theres no dispute that Mrs W shouldve been  paid any dividends that 
arose from her investments and that didnt happen  for several  months. But I dont think that 
Ref: DRN60839852means Aviva ceased all portfolio management  activities over that period of time such  that it 
would be fair to tell it to waive  (or refund) all charges over that period.
In accordance with the terms and conditions, the regular charges were taken from the 
money held in Mrs Ws cash  account. I realise  that money shouldve  been paid out to Mrs W 
rather than being  held in the cash account.  But I think Aviva  was entitled to take the charges 
one way or another. And taking them from the cash account meant  Aviva  didnt  have to sell 
any of Mrs Ws investments  as it had done historically  in order  to recoup  the charges. 
So, in effect,  Mrs Ws total investment holding is now greater than it would have been if the 
income had been  paid to her rather than being used to cover  the charges.  Barring, of course,  
the fact she sold some  holdings in June 2018.
Should Aviva pay anything further to Mrs W?
Having considered everything  thats  gone  on I think  Aviva has already done enough to put 
things right. I say this because:
Although Mrs W sold some of her investments in June 2018 I think  she mightve done 
that anyway. The sale of those shares  generated £1,084.07. But, from the information 
Aviva has provided,  the missing  income up to that point  totalled  only £775.98. So it looks 
like Mrs W was looking to release  more  money  than she wouldve received had the 
income properly been  paid out. Mrs W also says she had to pay for some items  using  a 
credit card but has hasnt shown  us when or how much  this was. So I cant see exactly  
how this expenditure  mightve tied in with the income she was expecting  to, but didnt, 
receive. But, in any event, shes told us she wasnt charged  any interest on those 
purchases so I cant see that she suffered a financial  loss. I accept Mrs W may have 
been uncomfortable using her credit  card in the way she did, but Ive taken  that into 
account when  deciding whether the compensation already paid is sufficient.
Aviva  says that at the point when it completed  its investigations  into Mrs Ws complaint 
there was £1,017  of income remaining in the cash account (although  I note there are 
also some  records that talk about  there  being  only £1,000).  Aviva agreed to pay this to 
Mrs W but there was a delay in doing so. And, in that time, further charges were taken 
from the account which left a £948.55 balance. So Aviva says it paid this to Mrs W and 
also added a further £68.45 (to make  the total payment up to £1,017)  plus £4.64 which  
was the interest  it had calculated  on the entire missed income amount. In effect,  this 
means Mrs W made a saving here  she didnt pay the £68.45  charges, which I think  
Aviva was entitled to recover but has, in effect,  waived.
At one point Aviva offered to complete  a full account comparison to make  sure Mrs W 
hadnt lost out. This potentially would have compared her current holding with what  it 
wouldve been if the income had been paid out and the charges taken by selling some  of 
her investments. It might  also have factored in the shares  she sold in June 2018.  But I 
think it would only have been appropriate for Aviva to do that if Mrs W had agreed to take 
the missing £413.65 income (£1,430.86 total missed  income  minus  the £1,017 shes  now 
been paid) by selling some of her investments. But she already said she doesnt want  to 
do that. Aviva has also said, more recently, that it would be very difficult to perform  that 
hypothetical calculation given the number  of factors that would now have to be taken  into 
account. I accept Avivas explanation in this regard  and have also taken  into account the 
total amount of compensation it has already paid.
Ref: DRN60839853I think Mrs W has been paid a far amount in total to compensate her financially for not 
having the use of the income  from the date it shouldve been  paid to the date Aviva  released 
the remaining  income plus the extra money. And I think this also fairly recognises  the trouble 
and upset Mrs W suffered in relation to this problem.  So I dont think  it would be fair to tell 
Aviva to pay anything more.
What about the remaining two missing  income payments?
I understand the problem with the new platform has now been resolved and Mrs Ws income 
is now being paid as expected. But, late in this complaint, Mrs W told us that there were, in 
fact, still two outstanding income payments. Aviva confirmed this was the case and that it 
was trying to locate them with the help of its third party administrator. I dont know if they 
have yet been found and paid. But, if not, I expect  Aviva to pay Mrs W the money she is 
owed promptly along with compensation for the loss of interest  resulting from the delay. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6083985