K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited misled him about  a personal contract 
plan (PCP) for a used car. 
background
In February 2015  Mr W entered into a 41 month PCP for a used car. And in January 2017  Mr 
W made  enquiries about exchanging this car for a different one. He says he attended the 
dealership hed acquired the first car from and asked what  he would owe if he traded it in 
and was told about £800.
Mr W says that he then visited  a different showroom and made enquiries about  exchanging 
the car for another with a new PCP agreement.  Mr W says this dealership  told him that 
although there was negative  equity  on the first car it would write this off so he could go in 
flat to the new PCP.
Mr W entered into the new PCP and took the other  car with the second dealership. He says 
around 12 months later he looked  into changing this car but was told that there  was around 
£6,000 negative equity in it and to take out another agreement that he would need to pay off 
a large amount to clear  both that and the outstanding finance.
Mr W says he was concerned at the amount  his car had appeared to have depreciated over 
12 months and so queried the figures with the dealership. Mr W says he was advised  that 
his original car had had a negative equity of around  £2,500 and that this amount had been 
added to the cost price  of the new car to fiddle the figures. 
Mr W was unhappy that the cost of the new car had been inflated and he complained  to 
Arnold Clark.  He said he wanted to return the car, have the outstanding finance  marked as 
settled and be reimbursed  his deposit of £300.  
Arnold Clark didnt uphold  his complaint. It said that his original car had been valued  at 
£8,800 but there was a settlement figure of around £11,500 on the agreement  meaning Mr 
W had been in negative equity. It said that it had been agreed with Mr W that the new cars 
sale price would proceed at a basic price of around £21,250 with a part exchange value for 
the original car shown  as £11,500. Arnold  Clark said Mr W had been  aware  of the negative  
equity position  of the first car when he traded it in. 
Arnold Clark said Mr W had signed the agreement for the new car which  contained all the 
figures. It said it couldnt comment why the other  dealership  had said Mr W owed around 
£800 on the first car as it didnt  represent the value  of that car at the time he traded it in.
However, Arnold Clark offered Mr W £300 as a gesture of goodwill due to the inconvenience  
caused to him over his dealings with the dealership and this agreement. 
Mr W had also raised  a concern that if the new cars value had been inflated then the cost of 
the Vehicle Replacement Insurance (VRI) that hed taken out when  he acquired the second 
car was actually too high. Arnold Clark said the premium  cost was for cars valued between 
£15,000 and £50,000 so the premium was correct  for this car.
Mr W was unhappy at Arnold Clarks response and complained to this service. He said he 
would never  have entered into the new agreement if hed known about the negative equity 
Ref: DRN69457472being owed under his first PCP. Our adjudicator didnt recommend  Mr Ws complaint should 
be upheld. 
Our adjudicator said that looking at the trade  and retail valuations  given  in the industry  used 
guides he was satisfied that the value given by Arnold  Clark for Mr Ws first car was correct.  
This meant there was negative equity in that car at the time Mr W had traded it in.
Our adjudicator said he had also checked  the retail price for the car Mr W had acquired 
under the new PCP in January 2017.  He said the cars retail  price had been close  to the 
price Mr W had actually  paid for it. So the cost of the second car didnt appear to have been 
substantially inflated.
Our adjudicator said looking  at the trade price for the second  car at the point Mr W had 
made enquiries about trading it in had again been close to the value quoted  to Mr W. He 
thought the estimate had been realistic. Our adjudicator said cars depreciated more in the 
first few years and he didnt think this indicated anything  untoward  on the part of the 
dealership in arranging this second PCP.
Our adjudicator said he thought it was likely the figures hadnt  been explained clearly 
enough to Mr W when  he took out the second  agreement and he had misunderstood the 
position of the negative  equity for the first car.
Mr W had raised  an inappropriate  comment made to him by a staff member when hed 
visited the dealership to have the figures  on the agreement explained. Our adjudicator said it 
wasnt disputed that if this comment had been  made  it had been  unprofessional and 
improper but he didnt  think  it had any direct  impact on Mr W. 
Our adjudicator said looking  at this complaint he thought the £300 goodwill gesture from 
Arnold Clark was fair and reasonable  and he wouldnt  ask it to do more.
Mr W said it wasnt clear to him what had happened regarding the cost of the new car and 
the negative equity from the original  car nor did he understand the current value of the new 
car. Mr W asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman  and so the complaint was 
passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the figures given for both Mr Ws original car and the new car I accept that the 
position about the negative equity isnt entirely  clear. However I think  the issue  I need  to 
decide is whether  the second  agreement was to Mr Ws disadvantage or not.
Mr W originally  took out a PCP agreement  in February 2015. This agreement  was for a used  
car and was set for 41 months. At the end of that agreement Mr W could choose to pay 
£6,750 or return  the car. However after having had the car for just less than two years Mr W 
decided to look into trading it in for another one.
I cant comment on why Mr W was told by the dealership that had arranged  this first PCP 
that there  was negative  equity of about  £800 on the agreement. Ive seen no evidence about 
that quote and looking  at the cars value at that time using the guide relied on by the trade  
Ref: DRN69457473this appears to be a very inaccurate estimate. The car was worth around  £8,800  meaning 
that under  the agreement there was negative equity as the actual outstanding balance  under 
the agreement  was around £11,500.  
So Im satisfied there was negative  equity on the first car. I also think  its unlikely that this 
wasnt discussed with Mr W. Being in negative equity at the half way point of a finance 
agreement for a car isnt unusual given that cars depreciate more  in value over their first few 
years.
Ive seen that an agreement was reached  as to the cost of the new car (which was also a 
used car) that allowed  Mr W to trade in his original car. I think its more  likely than not that Mr 
W was happy with the cost of this car as he signed the agreement and took the car.
Looking again  at the retail  price for the second  car Ive seen it was close to the price paid by 
Mr W. Im not aware of any particular reason why the cars  value would  have been  
significantly less though I accept that the guides  on retail  prices are guides. There can be a 
number of reasons  why car prices  differ  including  market  conditions as well as the condition 
of the car.
So I cant say on the evidence Ive seen that the cars value was greatly inflated. Arnold 
Clark says that account was taken of the negative equity and this wasnt  written off but a 
deal was reached that all the parties were  happy  with. 
Mr W is concerned  about the current value  of his car. Its value has been estimated on two 
occasions and appeared to be depreciating rapidly  in value. Ive seen that the estimate  
provided by the dealership was on the low end of what might  be expected but it wasnt  so 
low as to be unreasonable. As Ive said a cars value depends on a number of different 
factors so it can be hard to predict  a cars  value.  
Mr W says the depreciation  cant be correct  given the value placed  on the car at the end of 
the PCP. Under  a PCP the car has a minimum guaranteed value when  the agreement  ends.  
But this value doesnt mean  the car will be worth that amount by the end of the agreement  
as it could be more  or it could be less. If its more then this can be used towards  acquiring  
another car but if its less Mr W wouldnt be charged more to cover  the loss and this can be 
an advantage  of a PCP.
So although  I agree  the figures arent entirely  clear  I dont think Mr W has been 
disadvantaged by the structure of this agreement.  He was able to acquire the car hed 
wanted and he was happy with the figures as set out in the agreement.  I also think he was 
aware there  was negative  equity that would  have to be covered  and that this agreement 
allowed for that.
Ive seen that Arnold Clark has offered Mr W compensation of £300 for the inconvenience  of 
having to query this agreement. I think in these circumstances this is a fair and reasonable 
offer and I wouldnt ask it to do more. So Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I think the offer made  by 
Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited to pay Mr W £300  compensation if fair and reasonable and 
Im not asking it to do anymore to resolve  this matter.
Ref: DRN69457474 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6945747