K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny)  irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr S says the borrowing led to financial difficulties and he continued borrowing to 
repay other debts. 
background
This complaint is about four short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr S between 
June and August  2016. Mr Ss borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 07/06/2016 28/06/2016 Instalment £300.00   £95.45
2 29/06/2016 28/07/2016 Instalment £300.00 £100.05
3 31/07/2016 09/08/2016 Instalment £300.00 £100.00
4 10/08/2016 28/10/2016 Instalment £300.00   £93.99
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint  and thought  loan four shouldnt have been 
given. 
Sunny disagreed but later offered,  as a gesture of goodwill, to repay the interest and charges 
on loan four but wasnt willing to offer 8% interest  on the amount which is what we would 
expect to see. The offer was put to Mr S but he didnt respond.
As the complaint remains unresolved and has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN67913112the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr S didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision  about this lending.  But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr S had with Sunny.  So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
When Mr S applied  for loan four this was the third time he had requested  a loan very shortly 
after repaying a previous  loan. The most  amount of time between  loans was a matter of days  
which could suggest  Mr S was struggling to manage  his finances and was borrowing further  
to repay  his then current debt with Sunny.
The amount  borrowed  was the same  at each point throughout the borrowing chain so there 
was no indication that Mr S was starting to reduce his debt with Sunny.
And I note that Mr S always repaid his loans early  between two and four weeks  after he 
took the borrowing. So, he was treating his short-term loans, which  were  set up as six-month 
instalment loans, as though they were payday  loans.  Again, this was likely an indication that 
he wasnt managing  his money.
And while I appreciate  that repaying a loan early does reduce the interest costs, it can 
equally show  that Mr S was repeat borrowing to repay existing borrowing, so showing a 
reliance upon  short-term lending to manage  his day-to-day finances.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loan four and Sunny should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Ref: DRN67913113refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan four from Mr Ss credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6791311