K820x#14complaint
Mr H says a used car he acquired via a hire purchase  agreement  with Blue Motor Finance 
Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.   
background 
In June 2017 Mr H acquired a used car via a five year hire purchase agreement with Blue 
Motor. The car was around  six years and had a mileage of about  58,500.  The dealership  
fitted new tyres and new rear brake  pads and it also changed the oil, fitted a new oil filter and 
a new air filter. It also says that a new timing belt was due to be fitted  to the vehicle  so it 
agreed to fit this part. However, this repair was booked in for a later date at the request of Mr 
H.  
In July 2017 Mr H complained to the dealership that the car had an oil leak.  It was taken in 
by the dealership for repairs to be conducted under the warranty.  The dealership says a 
problem with the crankshaft oil seal was discovered  and replaced. It also fitted the timing  belt 
as previously agreed and straightened  the steering wheel as Mr H said this was also an 
issue. 
Mr H says he was told the engine had to be removed to affect  these repairs though  he hadnt 
been asked at the time if that could be done. He also says that a friend noticed the engine 
hadnt got a proper gasket  which he was told could cause oil starvation to the engine  and 
damage it. 
A short time later Mr H returned to the dealership  and complained  that there was a loud 
clicking noise from the car when  he was driving. The dealership says no fault could be found 
though a large stone was stuck in the tyre tread  and removed. When  the car was test driven 
no noise was heard. 
In August  2018  Mr H complained to Blue Motor Finance  that the cars engine  had seized. It 
arranged for the car to be independently inspected that month. 
The independent engineer noted there  was no evidence of external  oil leaks  but said there 
was difficulty in starting the engine and that when it was switched on there was an audible 
noise from the upper  engine area.  He didnt take the car for a road test as he considered 
there was a possibility  of damaging the engine. The engineer said that the noise from the 
engine was normally associated with a lack of compression. 
However, the engineer said that without  stripping  the engine a definitive cause of the 
symptoms couldnt  be provided. He concluded  that there was no physical or documentary 
evidence presented to him that the current issues with the car were  developing at the point 
of sale as it was highly unlikely it could have  been  drive the further  8000  miles by Mr H since 
hed acquired  it. 
Mr H complained about the independent engineers report. He says the engineer  made very 
different statements to him about the quality of the car than hed recorded in his report.  Mr H 
says the engineer told him it was illegal  for the dealership to have removed the engine 
without his permission;  that the engineer saw signs of past oil leaks  on his drive; that the 
engineer had noted the head and sump had been sealed with too much sealant and had 
said that this had most likely got into the internal parts  leading  to oil starvation and poor 
compression; that the engineer had pointed out hoses and wiring  harnesses were not  
Ref: DRN64554782reattached after the engine  had been  removed and that the engineer  had also noted the 
battery was loose and had agreed the AC hadnt been reconnected. 
Mr H says the engineer  informed him that in his opinion the faults had clearly been there at 
the point of sale and that due to the poor reinstallation  of the engine this had accelerated the 
degradation of the faults. 
Blue Motor  Finance didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It accepted the written report from the 
independent engineer and said the faults hadnt  been developing or present at the point of 
sale. 
Mr H complained to this service. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint  
should be upheld.  He said that the under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 the car supplied  
must be of satisfactory quality. And for a used car satisfactory quality  would take into 
account the cars age and mileage. It would be reasonable to expect a used car to have 
issues with wear and tear sooner than a new car. 
Mr H had contacted  the dealership when hed first had issues with the car and invoices 
showed there had been  repairs undertaken in June and July 2017. Mr H had said there were 
issues after this but after six months  it was for Mr H to show evidence  that thered been a 
fault present at the point  of sale. The independent inspection had concluded that the faults 
had arisen after the date of purchase  for an as yet unknown reason. The adjudicator said 
this suggested  the faults  were due to wear and tear. 
The adjudicator noted the car had successfully passed an MOT in February 2018. 
The adjudicator said he thought Blue Finance had acted reasonably in declining Mr Hs 
request to reject the car. 
Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said the adjudicator  hadnt taken on board 
what hed been  saying. 
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The issue  for me to decide is whether the car acquired by Mr H was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale. And where evidence is missing  or contradictory then I must decide what  I 
think is the most likely  thing to have  happened.  
Its agreed that Mr Hs car went back to the dealership  in June and July 2017 for work.  The 
first invoice sets out work that was undertaken to the tyres, rear brake  pads oil and air filters. 
The dealership says this was part of its 56 point check at the point of sale and looking  at 
the date of the invoice this appears to be correct. Im satisfied these were items  that would 
be affected by wear and tear and so the purpose of replacing them  was to bring the car up to 
a satisfactory standard. 
The car was then taken back  to the dealership in July 2017 due to the oil leak being noticed 
by Mr H. It was also for the dealership to fit the cambelt that it had previously agreed to 
Ref: DRN64554783replace. The oil leak was diagnosed as an issue  with the crank  shaft  oil seal which was 
replaced. Mr H says he was informed the dealership  had removed the engine to undertake  
this repair. The dealership says the engine isnt usually removed for this type of repair but as 
the technician  who undertook the repair is no longer at the garage it cant  verify that. 
Mr H says there is evidence that supports that the engine was removed such  as the 
unconnected AC, the loose battery and the hoses and harnesses  not being  properly 
attached. He also says these things  were all seen by the independent engineer  but not 
noted in his report. Mr H says that the head  and sump had been sealed with too much  
sealant which had likely  caused the problem of oil starvation  to the engine  and poor 
compression. Again this wasnt noted  in the report.  
The dealership says Mr H contacted  it again for a knocking noise shortly after the repairs in 
July 2017 but it wasnt  able to find any faults other than a stone in the tyre tread. The 
dealership says it had no further contact with Mr H until September  2018 by which  time the 
car was no longer working. It offered to assist  in finding a replacement engine but declined  to 
do repairs under  the warranty  due to the amount of time that had passed and as Mr H had 
driven further 8000 miles in the car. 
Mr H says a friend pointed out the car didnt have a proper gasket and said he should have 
the car looked  at. Im unclear when this was raised with Mr H. However Ive seen that any 
potential issue with the engine didnt prevent the car from successfully passing  its MOT in 
February 2018 nor did it prevent Mr H from using the car.  
Mr H says there are oil patches on his drive  that show passed oil leaks.  But I dont think its 
likely that Mr H wouldve noticed ongoing  oil leaks and then not taken any action such as 
raising them with the dealership especially since it had repaired  an oil leak under the 
warranty in July 2017. So I cant reasonably say this evidence of a long term issue with the 
car.
Mr H says the car was repaired  illegally  because his permission wasnt sought. However in 
July 2017 the car had been  taken in for repairs under the warranty so I disagree  that any 
repair activity was against the law.  Any garage should always  seek  permission to carry out 
repairs that are over and above what has been  agreed would  be paid for by the owner but 
here there was no implication of a cost to Mr H. If the engine was removed then I cant  
reasonably say the garage shouldnt have  done  so.
Ref: DRN64554784Mr H says the repairs were of such poor quality that it exacerbated faults  that were  already 
in existence. But the independent  engineer has made no note of the issues Mr H says were  
present and Ive seen  no other evidence that they exist.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  if a fault develops with a car after the first six months 
then its the consumers responsibility to prove  that those faults wouldve been  present  or 
developing at the point of sale. Ive seen no evidence that Mr H experienced any problems 
with the car after the repairs in July 2017 until it broke down in or around August 2018. 
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly that the dealership was at fault in the repairs  it carried out. 
But the independent report doesnt  support  him and I have no other evidence that 
corroborates what he says. Looking at the length  of time that has passed and taking into 
account that the car was usable in that time I dont  think I can reasonably  say those repairs 
were faulty  and either caused the problems with the engine or made existing problems 
worse. 
Ive seen that the independent engineer said that the engine would need  stripping to find the 
cause of the engine noise  and problem. So no formal  diagnosis as to the fault with the 
engine had been made. However the engineer  said it was highly unlikely that the fault 
couldve been present or developing at the point of sale due to the time that had passed. I 
think thats a reasonable conclusion to find in the circumstances particularly if the engine 
was suffering from a fault affecting its oil supply.
Mr H complains that the car broke  down  within  14 months  of his acquiring it. Part of 
satisfactory quality is that the car is durable  for a reasonable period of time before  its 
affected by wear and tear. However, when considering a reasonable period of time 
consideration is taken  of the age, mileage  and condition of the car. Here  the car was six 
years old and had a mileage of 58,500.  At the time the car broke down  it was a year older  
and had a mileage of around 66,800 so I think most  people would expect  a car of that age 
and mileage to require repairs from issues with wear and tear.  
Looking at the evidence and for the reasons  given  above Im not upholding  Mr Hs complaint. 
I dont have enough evidence to conclude  the car wasnt of satisfactory  condition  at the point 
of sale or that the repairs carried in July 2017  were defective.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  30 June 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6455478