K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited turned down a claim made  under 
his home  contents  insurance policy.
background
Mr L was on holiday when  his coat, containing  a wallet and some headphones, went  missing 
whilst he was in a bar. Mr L made a claim for his loss under the Cover away from home part 
of his policy.
Admiral turned down  the claim saying the items  werent in his control at the time of the loss, 
and he didnt contact  the police within 24 hours of the incident as required by the policy. Mr L 
complained to Admiral  who maintained the claim wasnt covered. Mr L remained unhappy so 
brought his complaint to our service where  one of our investigators looked  into what  
happened.
Mr L told us he was unable to report the incident to the police as the local station was closed 
and there  wasnt one for many miles. Mr L also said there was a very short time between the 
incident and when he had to board the coach back to the airport. Our investigator thought 
this condition wasnt applied fairly  and shouldnt  have been used as a reason to decline the 
claim. However, this wasnt the only reason Admiral didnt pay the claim.
Our investigator went on to think about  the policy exclusion which  says that claims arent 
covered when items are out of care and attention. She thought this exclusion wasnt applied 
unfairly or unreasonably as the coat, and items,  were left unattended.  Our investigator  
recognised that Mr L checked on his coat at various  times,  however  thought  that reasonable 
safeguard steps  werent taken. Overall,  our investigator thought  the claim wasnt declined in 
an unfair or unreasonable way. Mr L disagreed with this, so the complaint has come  to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
I think its important to tell Mr L theres no doubt  his items were taken or stolen.  This has 
clearly caused a great deal of upset and a financial loss. But its also important  to say that 
my role isnt to re-underwrite the claim,  but to decide whether Admiral  acted fairly when 
applying the policy terms to the claim.
Insurance policies  cant  and dont  cover every eventuality. Insurers  are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide  cover for under  a policy. They  are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events  they dont want to cover, and to have requirements for when making a 
claim. 
Admiral gave two reasons  for turning down the claim:
-the loss was not reported to police within 24 hours as required by the policy
-the policy doesnt cover theft of items not in the care, custody  or control  of you, or 
your family 
Ref: DRN69527862Having considered the circumstances of the loss, Im satisfied that it wouldnt have been 
reasonable, and perhaps not even  possible, for Mr L to report to the issue to the police within  
24 hours. Had this been the only reason for turning down the claim I would  be asking 
Admiral to reconsider, however thats not the case. 
Admiral has applied the policy exclusion which says that theft is not covered for items not in 
the care, custody  or control of you, or your family. There  doesnt  seem any doubt,  by Mr Ls 
own admission, that the coat was left unattended for different periods of time. Mr L checked 
on the coat, however when it went missing, it was unattended.  Mr L feels this exclusion is 
unfair saying  that the bar he was in was small, and that he had to go to the toilet so could 
never have  been  in full control  over his coat. 
This type of exclusion is not uncommon  in insurance policies. The essence  behind the 
exclusion is that items left unattended, or not in control of the policy  holder,  are at a higher 
risk of being  stolen.  This is not a risk that insurers like Admiral are willing  to cover. Looking 
at the policy  terms Im satisfied this exclusion is made clear.  Mr Ls coat was taken or stolen 
when it wasnt in his care, custody or control;  and this is not a loss covered under the policy.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  Admiral applied the policy terms in a fair and 
reasonable way when  turning down  the claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6952786