K820x#14complaint
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complain about how AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim
under their travel insurance policy when Mr H2 was injured abroad.  Mr H2 says AXA delayed
repatriating him to the UK, as a result of which his health has been affected.
All references to AXA include  the agents  it has appointed to handle  claims.
background
Mr H1 held a travel insurance policy, provided  by AXA.  The policy covered Mr H1 and
Mr H2, as well as another  family member.
Unfortunately, while  on holiday  abroad in 2013,  Mr H2 was found in unexplained
circumstances with serious injuries  and was taken to hospital.
A claim  was made with AXA on the day Mr H2 was admitted  to hospital, but cover wasnt
confirmed under the policy  until ten days later. The following day, Mr H2 had surgery abroad
and he was repatriated  to the UK by air ambulance 20 days after he was taken to hospital.
On his return to the UK, Mr H2 says he was told the original operation hadnt  been
performed well and he would need a hip replacement in the near future as a result.
Mr H2 subsequently had a hip replacement less than a year after his accident had
happened.
Unhappy, Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative complained  to AXA about  the way the claim
had been handled. He said the hospital abroad told AXA the operation  Mr H2 needed was
complex and he should  have the operation in the UK, but AXA wouldnt allow it. He also said
AXAs delays in arranging  Mr H2s repatriation had impacted  on his recovery,  his sporting life
and his ability to follow his chosen  career path.
AXA investigated the complaint and sent a final response letter.  AXA said due to the limited
information available about the circumstances of what  happened  to Mr H2, it needed some
questions to be answered before cover could be confirmed. It said the treating  hospital sent
incorrect information and delayed sending a toxicology report, which  meant it couldnt
confirm cover. AXA said it would have preferred to repatriate Mr H2 before  his operation, but
the surgery could  be performed abroad, and it hadnt forced the treating hospital to carry out
the operation.  AXA acknowledged, overall, it didnt communicate as effectively as it could
have and offered  Mr H1 and Mr H2 £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
caused. 
As Mr H1 and Mr H2 remained unhappy, their representative brought  their complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman  Service.
When the complaint  was first brought to us, Mr H2 was in the process of pursuing legal
proceedings abroad. One of our adjudicators suggested that Mr H1 and Mr H2 should
withdraw their complaint  from our service pending  the outcome of these legal proceedings.
Our adjudicator thought it would be difficult to quantify what fair and reasonable
compensation would be based  on the information we had at that point.  Our adjudicator
explained we could re-open  Mr H1 and Mr H2s complaint once the legal proceedings had
been resolved.  
Ref: DRN63284032In the meantime, the adjudicator contacted AXA to ask it to increase its offer of
compensation and make  an interim  payment to Mr H1 and Mr H2. He said, based on the
information he had seen, he thought AXA could have repatriated Mr H2 five days  after his
accident. He said he thought AXAs delays  had resulted in a very serious  medical outcome
for Mr H2.
AXA agreed to increase  its offer of compensation to £2,000. It also offered to appoint a
medical expert in pelvic injuries to give an opinion on whether any delays and/or the surgery
abroad had impacted on Mr H2s recovery.
AXA paid this compensation and began to make arrangements  to instruct a medical  expert,
and Mr H1 and Mr H2 withdrew their complaint from our service  in 2014.
Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative contacted us in 2015 to let us know  Mr H2s legal
proceedings against the hospital  abroad  would no longer be going  ahead,  but he was still
pursuing a claim through a criminal injuries  compensation  scheme. However, new solicitors
were subsequently appointed to deal with Mr H2s medical negligence claim. When  the
original medical expert was unable to complete his opinion because  of gaps in Mr H2s
medical records, a new expert  was appointed.
In 2016, the representative contacted  us to let us know  Mr H2s legal  proceedings were  still
unresolved and, in 2017,  told us Mr H2 was waiting for a court  ruling to force the hospital
abroad to release his full medical records.
In March 2018, the representative let us know  Mr H2s medical  records had been released.
However, following  a report  from a consultant orthopaedic  surgeon (who Ill call Mr T) in
August 2018,  Mr H2s new solicitors said they wouldnt be taking his medical negligence
action forward.
So, in October  2018, we re-opened Mr H1 and Mr H2s complaint. The original adjudicator
whod looked  into the complaint didnt think the content of the report from Mr T was in line
with the offer AXA made in 2014.  So, our adjudicator recommended that AXA should obtain
a further medical  report from the same expert. Our adjudicator later amended his
recommendations following comments from the representative and said AXA could obtain a
further report from a different expert.
AXA and Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative agreed to this but, in June 2019, AXA said it was
having difficulty finding a UK specialist in the field who was prepared to provide a further
report, but it had found one abroad.
After receiving a number of updates from AXA about  when it expected to receive the new
medical report, in December 2019 AXA said the specialist abroad was no longer able to
provide this report.
Mr H1 and Mr H2s complaint was then passed  to me to decide. I made my provisional 
decision about the complaint in February 2020.  In it, I said:
At the outset, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about what  happened  to Mr H2 and how
the events abroad  have  impacted on his life. Mr H2 has pursued a number of different
avenues to gain a better understanding of what happened,  and I hope  my explanation of
what I think AXAs role in the situation  was is helpful to him in moving forward.
Ref: DRN63284033Ive aware of how long Mr H1 and Mr H2 have been waiting for an answer to their complaint
from this service. Were an informal alternative to the civil courts and we make decisions
based on what we think is most  likely to have happened in the circumstances, taking into
account all the information and evidence  that has been presented to us. I agree with the
original adjudicator that, based on the evidence we had available  to us in 2014, it would
have been difficult  for us to decide what AXAs role in events was and what  appropriate
compensation would have  been. But, at this point,  we have  the benefit of knowing legal
proceedings against the treating hospital  werent taken forward,  and we also have the
benefit of seeing Mr Ts report.
Ive reviewed all the information  I have to decide whether I think AXA dealt with
Mr H2s claim in the way Id expect an insurer to do. While I think there were failings by AXA
in this case, I dont  agree  with a number of the conclusions  reached by our adjudicator.  Im
sorry to disappoint  Mr H1 and Mr H2 but I hope the detailed reasoning Ive set out will help
them understand why.
AXAs responsibilities
Industry rules set out by the regulator  of the financial services industry say an insurer must
handle claims promptly and fairly. The terms and conditions of Mr H1 and Mr H2s contract
with AXA outline  its obligations to them.
The policy says AXAs emergency  assistance  service is available  for advice and making
arrangements for repatriation 24 hours  a day, 365 days a year. The emergency  assistance
service is described as having:
the medical expertise,  contacts and facilities to help should You be injured in an
accident or fall ill. The Emergency Assistance Service will also arrange  transport to
Your Home Area when this is considered to be medically necessary
Under Section  2  Emergency Medical  and Other  Expenses,  the policy  says:
In the event of Your Bodily Injury  or illness We reserve  the right to relocate You
from one hospital  to another and arrange for Your repatriation to Your Home Area at
any time during  the Trip. We will do this if in the opinion  of the Emergency
Assistance Service or Us (based on information  received from the Medical
Practitioner in attendance) You can be moved  safely and/or travel safely  to Your
Home Area to continue  treatment.
While a policyholder  and their family may have preferences about where medical treatment
is carried out, AXA has the discretion to make important decisions during a medical
emergency  including  decisions about  whether it is medically necessary to repatriate a
policyholder to the UK for treatment or whether its more  appropriate  for the policyholder to
have medical treatment abroad.
Id expect AXA to use this discretion in a fair and reasonable way, taking into account the 
medical information available to it and acting in the best interests of the policyholder.
When dealing with a medical emergency  such as the one Mr H2 found himself  in, an insurer
is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy itself that a policyholder has a valid claim
under their policy before confirming cover. And, an insurer is entitled to ask to see medical
evidence from the treating  doctor  and have  this reviewed by their own medical team  before
Ref: DRN63284034deciding whether to approve treatment or repatriation.  
Generally, its not unreasonable  for an insurer to insist on seeing such  information before
making a decision,  but I would expect the insurer to regularly chase information  requests
and to communicate effectively with the policyholder about the progress of their claim.
Ive reviewed AXAs notes  to gain an understanding of what happened here, and Ive set out
what I think are the key points below.
day 1
On the day Mr H2 was admitted to hospital,  AXA was notified about the claim at around
lunchtime. AXA called one of Mr H2s family  members back within  an hour.  During both
conversations, the consumption of alcohol was mentioned.
Mr H1 and Mr H2s policy, in common with most travel insurance policies, contains a general
exclusion for claims arising from drinking too much alcohol. The policy  also contains an
exclusion for claims arising from the use of drugs, other than in limited  circumstances.
In the early afternoon, AXA sent a request to the treating hospital asking for a medical
report, as an insurer  usually would when dealing with a medical assistance claim. AXA also
asked for details of Mr H2s blood  alcohol levels and told Mr H2s family it would need to see
a police report. Given the circumstances of the claim and what  AXA had been told about
what happened, I dont think these were  unusual or unreasonable  requests by AXA.
day 2
AXA received and reviewed Mr H2s first medical  report from the treating hospital just before
2pm.
This medical  report said, the only test that came back positive on arrival at the hospital was
carabinoides [sic] for possible administration of morphine post-accident. The report  went  on
to say, if you want the patient may already  be repatriated in regular flight with stretcher
escorted by nurse.
It would subsequently transpire that Mr H2 never  tested positive for cannabis.  Our
adjudicator concluded this mistake  was made by AXA, but Im satisfied this wasnt  the case.
The mistake  was made by the hospital  in medical  reports written by the treating doctor. AXA
had, at this stage, no way of knowing  that what the treating doctor said about Mr H2 testing
positive for cannabinoids was incorrect.
At 2.34pm AXA chased the hospital for details of Mr H2s blood  alcohol levels, as it hadnt
received these in response to its request the previous day. AXA also asked whether
Mr H2 needed surgery because the medical report was silent on this point. And Ive seen
evidence that AXA asked the treating hospital  for a copy  of Mr H2s toxicology report  as well.
Given what the medical report said about Mr H2s drugs test result,  I think  it was reasonable
for AXA to consider it needed to see the toxicology report  for itself before it could confirm
cover.
When Mr H1 called AXA for an update  at 2.42pm, AXA said it was chasing a medical report
and Mr H1 said hed send  this to AXA himself.
Ref: DRN63284035AXA received the second  medical report at 5.05pm  and, within minutes,  had requested an
urgent translation. However, when the translation was received  at 10.11pm the same
evening, AXA doesnt appear to have  actioned it.
day 3
When Mr H1 contacted  AXA for an update at 10.51am, AXA realised it hadnt reviewed the
medical report which had been translated the previous evening.
AXA then reviewed the medical report,  but this still didnt confirm  what Mr H2s blood alcohol
levels were.  The medical report  said Mr H2 needed surgery  and that he was awaiting
repatriation. AXA noted there didnt seem  to be any reason why Mr H2 couldnt have the
treatment abroad and escalated the medical report to one of its doctors to review.
That afternoon,  AXA reviewed a police report outlining the circumstances in which Mr H2
was found and spoke to a nurse  at the treating hospital, who was unable  to give it any
information about why Mr H2 hadnt been  operated on.
At 3.46pm, AXAs doctor reviewed Mr H2s medical reports  and noted  Mr H2 needed
immediate surgery. AXAs doctor asked for clarification  of whether the current medical facility
was adequate to perform  the surgery needed.  AXAs  doctor said, if so, it wouldnt be
necessary to repatriate Mr H2 before  the operation.
On the same  day, at 4.53pm, AXA chased  the hospital for a toxicology report  as it still hadnt
received this. Mr H2s family were given  an update  at 6.05pm about the information AXA still
needed to confirm cover under the policy.
day 4
A note on AXAs file at 10.31am  says it had tried to telephone the hospital over ten times
that morning to ask about Mr H2s apparent positive test for cannabinoids.  AXAs  notes
indicate it was also trying to ask the hospital about  the operation Mr H2 needed.
At 12.52pm, AXA sent a further request to the hospital for a toxicology report  and asked to
speak to Mr H2s doctor as soon as possible.
AXA received a medical report at 2.30pm which said the hospital  was waiting for AXAs
instructions about  repatriation.  The medical report again referred to a positive test for
cannabinoids  which we now know to be incorrect  and said there was no relationship
between these and the drugs administered to Mr H by the hospital.
This was further incorrect information provided  by the treating  hospital.  AXA couldnt
reasonably have known at this point that the information the hospital  was providing was
wrong because  it hadnt  been  provided with the toxicology report despite its numerous
requests. 
The medical report from the treating hospital went on to say:
Regarding the surgery for this patient  in the Public  hospital of, although he can be
operate there, we informed you that this time of the year the Publico hospital
ofdidnt gathers  the necessary conditions for this operation, it will be better to be
operated in a specialized center in England.
Ref: DRN63284036After unsuccessfully  trying to get in touch with Mr H2s treating doctor  to clarify the meaning
of necessary conditions, AXAs doctor interpreted the above statement to mean  the
hospital was capable of carrying out the operation but did not have the necessary resources
to do so during  the summer  season.
I dont think this was an unreasonable position  for AXA to take but, nonetheless, it began  to
look into air taxi repatriation options  for Mr H2 to come back  to the UK subject to the exact
circumstances of Mr H2s accident  being  confirmed. But, at this point, AXA was still waiting
for information it needed to be able to confirm  cover  namely the toxicology report showing
Mr H2s blood alcohol levels and drug test results.
While requesting air taxi quotes for Mr H2s repatriation that evening, AXA also continued to
chase the treating hospital for the toxicology report.
AXA spoke to one of Mr H2s family members at 7.58pm to give them  an update  and to ask
for further  information  about the circumstances of Mr H2s accident, as the medical  report it
received that day had mentioned a robbery.
day 5
Shortly after receiving quotes to repatriate Mr H2  which it would have  been  possible to do
that day if cover had been confirmed - AXA again chased  the hospital  for a toxicology report.
AXA subsequently asked the hospital  for this information twice  that afternoon.  AXA also
again asked the hospital why it couldnt perform  the surgery Mr H2 needed, and Mr H2s
family were given a number of updates explaining that AXA was still making a decision on
cover.
As our adjudicator referenced,  AXA had sourced  an air taxi which would have been able to
repatriate Mr H2 to the UK on day 5 of his claim.  But I dont agree with our adjudicators
conclusion that there  was no valid reason for AXAs failure to put Mr H2 on the air taxi on
day 5. AXA was still waiting for  and regularly chasing  information it needed in order  to
confirm cover.
I dont think it would  have  been fair or reasonable to expect AXA to arrange for Mr H2s
repatriation at this point when it still had valid concerns  about  the circumstances of the claim
in the absence of a toxicology report.  And Im satisfied AXA was, at the same time as
requesting the information it needed,  trying  to establish whether the hospital abroad  could
operate on Mr H2. So, overall, I think AXA was doing all it could to gather the information it
needed to make medical decisions in Mr H2s best interests.
day 6
AXAs notes  reiterate its doctor had recommended an air taxi was needed for Mr H2.
However, this was subject  to AXA having  sight of the toxicology report, which it was still
chasing from the hospital. AXA also asked  the hospital for reasons why Mr H2s surgery
wasnt being performed.
The only information  AXA seems  to have been  given  from the hospital  on day 6 was that
Mr H was receiving  non-surgical  conservative  treatment.
AXA also again  asked  Mr H2s family for further information about  the robbery mentioned on
Ref: DRN63284037the medical report it had received two days previously.
day 7
At around midday, AXA and Mr H1 discussed the options of moving Mr H2 to another
medical facility abroad or repatriating him to the UK. Mr H1 expressed  a desire to have
Mr H2 repatriated to a specific  hospital in the UK.
AXA contacted the hospital for the outstanding information  it needed  more  than once  on day
7 and continued to ask the hospital for the reasons  why it couldnt perform  Mr H2s surgery.
At 10.26pm, Mr H2s family contacted AXA to express particular concern about one of
Mr H2s injuries and AXA said it would update them as soon as possible the following
morning.
day 8
AXAs internal  notes show its Head of Medical Services expressed serious  concerns  about
Mr H2s medical condition on day 8. She said:
the gold standard  for having  this surgery in the UK is within 24-48 hours  a delay  of
a few days is acceptable but there is increasing  risk with each passing day of future
ongoing complications as a result  of this
I am concerned that this young man may have ongoing health  problems  as a result  of
the continuing delay with his treatment
She emphasised the need to urgently  confirm whether Mr H2s claim was covered under his
policy and to clarify the hospitals position on performing surgery, so a decision could be
made about whether to move  Mr H2 as soon as possible.
At 10.45am, AXA spoke to the hospital  and was told by one of Mr H2s doctors  that the
hospital was awaiting  a decision from AXA about whether Mr H2s claim was covered and if
they didnt have confirmation of this within a week, theyd operate immediately. AXA
subsequently received  written confirmation of this and responded asking for the surgery to
go ahead  sooner. The hospital replied  at 1.34pm to say surgery could go ahead three days
later, on day 11.
Meanwhile, AXA was continuing to request the toxicology report  from the hospital so it could
make a decision on cover.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr H2s toxicology  report which appears from the date stamp to have
been faxed to AXA at 2.18pm on day 8. This confirms Mr H2s blood alcohol  levels  were just
over the UK drink driving limits and says he tested negative for marijuana but positive for
opioids. 
AXA spoke to Mr H2s family  at 8.36pm to say it was still waiting to make a decision about
whether the claim  was covered  but the necessary  surgery would be going ahead abroad.
Mr H2s family expressed a strong  preference  for him to be repatriated to have the surgery,
but AXA said there could be a longer wait for Mr H2 to have the operation in the UK.
day 9
Ref: DRN63284038AXA reviewed Mr H2s toxicology report at 2.45pm and noted  his positive test for opiates
could relate  to the medication he was given  on admission to hospital.
During a conversation with Mr H2s family at 7.27pm,  AXA said a decision on cover  had not
yet been made. Mr H2s family  said they felt Mr H2 was being  coerced into having surgery
abroad and a further conversation took place about  the circumstances of what  happened  to
Mr H2.
day 10
AXA confirmed Mr H2s claim was covered at 4.58pm, with Mr H2 due to have surgery
abroad the following day.
AXA contacted Mr H2s family shortly after cover was confirmed to say it thought Mr H2
should be fit to fly five to six days after his operation on a commercial flight with a nurse
escort. Mr H2s family said this contradicted information theyd been given, which was that
Mr H2 wouldnt be fit to fly for two to three weeks.
surgery and eventual repatriation
Mr H2 had surgery on day 11. On day 12, AXA received  a medical report from the treating
hospital to say Mr H2 wouldnt be fit to fly for at least five to seven days after his operation.
The medical report went on to say he may need  a nurse escort.
On day 15, AXA began  to speak to Mr H2s family about making repatriation  arrangements
and, on day 16, Mr H2s family told AXA he might need a further operation  on his return  to
the UK.
At this point, AXA again began to make enquiries  with the hospital. It asked why the surgery
hadnt been successful and what were  the advantages and disadvantages of Mr H2 having
any follow-up surgery aboard. They also sought  urgent confirmation that Mr H2 was fit to fly
by stretcher.
AXAs notes  from day 16 record the hospitals  communications  were  not good  and it was
being kept on hold endlessly.  Nonetheless,  AXA began to request both air taxi and air
ambulance quotes  in preparation for Mr H2s repatriation.
When AXA received  these quotes  that evening, I can see it tried to contact the hospital at
least three times to obtain the information it had asked for earlier that day.
After telephoning the hospital  on the morning of day 17, AXA received a medical report
confirming Mr H2 was fit to fly by stretcher  with a nurse escort and re-hospitalisation on
arrival in the UK. An initial repatriation plan was approved and communicated  to Mr H2s
family at 2.11pm.
On day 18, Mr H2s family  were told he would be repatriated two days later.  AXA spoke with
Mr H2 directly  on day 19 to confirm the details  of what would happen, as it was unable to
contact his treating  doctors. Mr H2 was repatriated by air ambulance on day 20 and Mr H1
returned to the UK on his amended original return flight.
Shortly after his repatriation on day 20, Mr H2 told AXA he had a fracture which hadnt been
Ref: DRN63284039picked up abroad  and when hed been  operated on, plates had been put in the wrong place.
summary of AXAs actions
Having taken all the above into account,  I think its clear  there  were  failings  on the part of
AXA. However, I think its also clear  not all of the delays were  caused by AXA and I think
much of what happened in the initial days after Mr H2s admission to hospital was outside of
AXAs control.
I understand Mr H1 and Mr H2 said they were told by the doctor who first examined Mr H2
that he had a very serious and complex injury and an operation  would need  to be carried  out
in the UK or possibly in a different  hospital  abroad. However, based on the information Ive
seen, the earliest  AXA became aware  there  might  be any difficulty  with the treating hospital
carrying out the operation was on day 4.
The reasons  provided  by the treating hospital  as to why the operation was best carried out in
the UK were unclear  and AXA made repeated attempts to clarify  why this was, while
simultaneously obtaining  quotes  to repatriate  Mr H2 on day 5.
However, I dont think AXA was unreasonable in failing to repatriate Mr H2 at that point,
because it couldnt  be sure the claim was covered. This was as a result of incorrect
information provided by the treating hospital, which AXA made repeated  and persistent
attempts to clarify.
Given the circumstances of what happened, I think AXA was entitled to make reasonable
enquires to satisfy itself that Mr H2 wasnt under the influence of alcohol or drugs when the
accident happened and I think, up until day 8, AXA was making every effort to get the
information it needed.
By day 6, the need to take action and make a decision  on how Mr H2 was to be treated was
becoming more urgent  and I think on day 8, having  received the information from its Head of
Medical Services, was the point  AXA should have taken action regardless of whether cover
had been confirmed, possibly by accepting  the claim on a disclaimer basis.
It was also on day 8 that AXA seems to have received the toxicology report and I think there
was an unreasonable delay by AXA in confirming cover between day 8 and day 10. If AXA
was going to repatriate Mr H2 then I think day 8 was the earliest  point at which  it should
reasonably have done so. But its worth noting  that, by then, the operation had already  been
confirmed abroad  for day 11.
I dont think I can fairly  say AXA pressured  the hospital into carrying  out the operation.  If the
hospital wasnt capable  of carrying out the operation, then I think  the responsibility  was on it
to make AXA aware of this. The comments in the medical report on day 4 say the operation
can be performed abroad and I dont think AXAs interpretation of the meaning of what the
hospital was saying was unreasonable. I also note AXA made repeated attempts to clarify
the position with the hospital.  I havent  seen any evidence that AXA was ever told the
hospital wasnt skilled enough to perform the surgery.
I think AXA was doing its best to gather information from and liaise with what seems  to have
been an uncooperative medical  facility. And Ive seen no evidence  to suggest the cost of
repatriation influenced  how AXA handled Mr H2s claim  in fact AXA was proactively
seeking repatriation  quotes before cover was even confirmed.
Ref: DRN632840310As Ive mentioned  above, I think there was an unreasonable delay by AXA in confirming
cover. AXA also delayed actioning a translated medical report on day 2  although I dont
think this made a difference to the overall progress of the claim. Also, it seems from AXAs
file that it contacted Mr H2 directly on day 12, the day after his surgery, which I dont think
should have happened in the circumstances.
Mr H1 has also complained about having to chase AXA for updates, having to provide
documentation himself  and being given  conflicting information about  repatriation methods.
Im pleased to see AXA has acknowledged  it didnt communicate as effectively as it should
have. Im also pleased  to see from AXAs file that it contacted the hospital  directly in
response to concerns Mr H2s family raised  about  the food and the room he was in.
Mr H1 has mentioned being  repeatedly asked about the circumstances of what  happened to
Mr H2. I can understand why such questioning will have been upsetting for Mr H2s family
and perhaps AXA could have made their enquiries  more sensitively. However, given the
circumstances of what happened and the mention  of a robbery  in the medical  report  on day
4 which  AXA wasnt aware  of previously, I dont think  it was unreasonable for AXA to seek
as much clarity as it could  about  the circumstances.
medical evidence
When making a decision  about a case like this, its not part of my role to reach my own
medical conclusions  or to substitute expert medical  opinion with my own. Instead,  Ive
weighed up all the medical evidence to decide  what I think  is most likely in the
circumstances.
Ive considered the available evidence to decide whether I think I can fairly say any
unreasonable failure by AXA to repatriate Mr H2 on day 8 is likely to have impacted on his
recovery.
Mr H2 says he was told a better job could  have been done,  and the surgeons  abroad  had
not been strong enough to fully reduce  his fracture  and had thrown a bone  away.  Ive seen
some of Mr H2s UK medical records which mention joint disruption unchanged  since x-rays
dating back to the time of his accident, and I understand a hospital  in the UK was prepared
to carry out further  corrective  surgery although  Mr H2s doctors ultimately advised against
this.
Ive taken into account what Mr H1 and Mr H2 have said about a UK surgeons written
comments that it was unfortunate that he was not managed in a centre of excellence  where
surgery could have  been done sooner.  Ive also considered Mr H1 and Mr H2s comments
about various aspects  of the 2018 consultation with Mr T. But Ive also considered Mr Ts
qualifications and the detail set out in his report. In particular, Mr T said:
This was an extremely serious injuryand  in my opinion the chance of obtaining a
good result  ie a comfortable hip with a prospect of being able to avoid hip
replacement surgery for a good many years, was remote.
Mr T said the surgery Mr H2 underwent  was gradually becoming  regarded as a more
specialised procedure but:
even in the most experienced hands it is not always possible  to obtain an
Ref: DRN632840311anatomical reductionThe films which I have  seen show that a less than perfect but
probably acceptable reduction has been achievedThe surgical procedure was
achieved without damage to the sciatic nerve which indicates  a good level of
technical expertise  and the fixation did not fail and was not unduly  prominent.
In conclusion, Mr T said:
It is my opinion that even  if [Mr H2] had been transferred to a more specialist unit it
is unlikely that there  would be any long term significant change  to the outcome ie left
total hip replacement  at a young  age.
Overall, I think Mr Ts report is persuasive evidence that earlier surgery and/or repatriation  is
unlikely to have  a significant impact  on Mr H2s health.
compensation
Turning to the level of compensation which I think is appropriate in this case, Mr H1 and
Mr H2 are both insured  under this policy.  This means they are both eligible complainants
under our rules, so I can consider the impact of AXAs actions on them both.
Taking into account the mistakes which I feel AXA made in this case,  I have no doubt Mr H1
and Mr H2 will have suffered distress and inconvenience as a result.
If this complaint had come  to me without any offer from AXA, Id have made an award of
compensation in the range of what this service considers substantial (£500 - £2,000).  AXA
has already made an award at the top end of this scale.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H1 and Mr H2. I know this wont be the outcome  they were  hoping
for, especially having pursued  their complaint for as long as they have. But I think  the £2,000
compensation which AXA has already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I
dont intend to recommend that AXA should pay anything further.
AXA responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing  further  to add. Mr H1 and 
Mr H2s representative replied to my provisional decision with detailed  additional  comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed in detail the information provided and submissions  made by both parties, but I 
havent addressed  every  point raised  nor am I obliged to. Instead,  Ive focused on what  I 
think are the key issues. But I want to assure  both parties that Ive read and considered  
everything that has been sent to me.
When a complaint is brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service, an adjudicator  or 
investigator will review  what has happened  and give an initial  assessment about the case. 
This initial assessment  sets out a non-binding opinion. The second  and final stage of our 
process is for an ombudsman such as myself  to review  the case  independently and 
impartially from the outset  and make a final decision.  An ombudsmans final decision, if 
accepted by the consumer, is legally binding on both parties. If the ombudsmans decision 
differs from the opinion  given by the adjudicator  or investigator  as mine  does here  a 
Ref: DRN632840312provisional decision will be sent first, to give both parties the opportunity to comment  on the 
ombudsmans reasoning before a final decision is made. My provisional decision explained 
why I disagreed with several conclusions reached  by our adjudicator. 
Im not bound to follow our adjudicators  findings. Im also not bound  by any discussions our 
adjudicator may have  had with other colleagues,  who didnt review all the submissions in 
their entirety. A final decision about a complaint is reached solely  by the ombudsman  who is 
deciding the case, after considering all the information available.  No ombudsman, no matter 
how senior, can change  another  ombudsmans decision.
I understand Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative  is disappointed that I havent  agreed with our 
adjudicators conclusions, but my provisional decision sets out the detailed reasons why this 
is.  
AXAs final response  letter sets out an apology for various aspects of how it handled  Mr H2s 
claim. I have  the power to require a business  to pay compensation for financial and non-
financial loss, and compensation  for non-financial loss is the appropriate  remedy  here. Ive 
considered AXAs payment  of £2,000 compensation as an overall award for everything that 
happened, taking into account all the circumstances. While I understand our adjudicator 
expressed this payment  as being  specifically  for communication failings, when considering  a 
complaint like this, our service wouldnt usually  break compensation for non-financial loss 
down into separate  sub-headings. Instead, wed generally consider compensation as a 
global award for the overall distress  and inconvenience experienced, and this is what Ive 
done here.  
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative has 
commented on some of the wording Ive used in setting  out the background to the case. My 
intention isnt to understate  Mr H1 and Mr H2s complaint  but, as an independent and 
impartial service,  its preferable  that I outline  the facts of what  happened  in neutral language. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative has also clarified various points around Mr H2s initial  
operation, his criminal  injuries claim and his medical negligence claim. The background  
section of this decision  sets out the facts as I have understood them from the information  
that was communicated to us. Im sorry if this contains any inaccuracies but I dont think 
what the representative has said about  these  issues has a bearing on the outcome of the 
complaint. 
There are a number of comments made by Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative in response to 
my provisional decision which Ive already addressed and which  I dont intend to repeat. 
These include:
the initial indication  that Mr H2 needed further corrective  surgery  on his return  to the 
UK (although  Mr H2s doctors  ultimately advised against  this);
the suggestion that AXA delayed  the claim because it was trying to avoid the costs 
associated with repatriating Mr H2; 
AXAs delays in confirming cover on receipt  of the toxicology  report (which  Ive 
already taken into account  when considering  what  award  of compensation I think  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances);
Mr H1 having to provide  medical  documentation to AXA himself;
AXAs failure to communicate effectively with Mr H1 and Mr H2.
Ref: DRN632840313However, I do want to outline  again  what my role is when making a decision about  this 
complaint. I havent  made any judgments about clinical  negligence. What Ive done  is weigh 
up all the information  available to me to decide  whether  I think  AXA handled this claim and 
Mr H2s repatriation  in a way that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Were an informal dispute resolution  service and we assess complaints impartially based  on 
the evidence which is provided to us. Regardless of reasons why Mr Ts report  was 
commissioned, I think the report contains information which is relevant to the circumstances 
of this complaint.  So, its reasonable  for me to rely on the content  of this report  when 
reaching my conclusions. 
Complaints are brought to us so we can provide an answer to whether we think a business 
has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, and its for us to decide if we think we 
have enough information to reach a decision about  a case. Im satisfied  AXA has attempted  
to obtain a further medical report but has encountered  difficulties  in doing so. I can 
understand why Mr H1 and Mr H2 are unhappy  with this position but my powers to require 
AXA to obtain  a report from a third party  in circumstances where  AXA has been  unable to 
find a third party who is prepared to write  such  a report are limited. Based on the information 
Ive seen, I think AXA has made reasonable endeavours  to find an expert to provide a report, 
without success.  And I think its unlikely  allowing  AXA any further time to find an expert will 
result in a report being forthcoming. So, Ive made my decision based on the information and 
evidence which is available to me at this time.  
As Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative has correctly pointed out, wed generally consider  the 
opinion of a treating doctor to be persuasive medical evidence. But, particularly in a case  
where a customer has been  admitted to hospital, Id usually expect to see these opinions set 
out in writing so there is a documentary record of a customers medical condition for the 
benefit of all involved. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to request medical 
reports in writing from the treating hospital.  Ive considered and given weight to the written 
reports which Ive seen  from Mr H2s treating doctors when making  my decision.  I havent 
seen any information  which  would lead me to conclude that AXA was acting against  the 
medical advice of Mr H2s treating doctors  or that AXA should have had any concerns about 
the ability of the treating hospital  to carry out the necessary procedure before day 4. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative has referred  to a note from AXAs doctor on day 3 which  
says most  important  is an immediate  reduction. However, the doctors comments go 
on to say clarification was needed  about  whether the treating hospital  was adequate to 
perform surgery  and, if so, it would not be necessary  to repatriate Mr H2. While its clear this 
doctor was saying an operation was needed, I dont think  its reasonable to interpret the 
comments quoted  as medical advice that repatriation was necessary at that point. And I 
havent seen any evidence that AXA played  any part in delaying the operation being carried 
out abroad.  
When AXA received  details about  the ability of the treating hospital to perform  the procedure  
on day 4, I think this information was confusing and misleading. I appreciate Mr H1 and 
Mr H2s representative disagrees with the provisional conclusions  I reached on this point and 
Ive considered the extracts  from the communication he has quoted. But the communication  
also says Mr H2 can  be operate there  [sic] . So, when read overall, I dont  think  AXA 
interpreted this communication unreasonably.  Ive also noted the observations made by 
AXAs chief  medical  officer on the same day, but I think these need to be considered in the 
context of the information AXA had from the treating hospital  at that point and the requests 
AXAs made for clarification from the hospital  about  whether it could perform the surgery 
Ref: DRN632840314Mr H2 needed. Overall, I dont think its fair to say AXA wasnt  handling the claim reasonably 
at this stage. 
Ive reviewed all the evidence again in light of what Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative has 
said about where the mistake about the positive cannabinoid test originated. Based on the 
information Ive seen, I remain satisfied that this mistake was made  by the hospital and not 
by AXA.  
I understand AXA didnt tell Mr H1 and Mr H2 what was causing the delay  in confirming 
cover  it was waiting for the toxicology report, to clarify both alcohol test and drug test 
results. In my experience  of dealing with complaints like this, its usual practice for an insurer  
to liaise  directly with the treating hospital  to obtain  information such  as a toxicology report. 
As Mr H1 experienced,  it can cause further  distress  to a customer at an already upsetting  
time if an insurer requests  medical information  via the policyholder. While it may have been 
better customer service if AXA had explained to Mr H1 what  information it was waiting for 
from the hospital, even if it had done so, I dont think  I can fairly say this is likely to have 
reduced the overall length of time it would have taken AXA to confirm cover. I say this 
because of the clear  difficulties AXA was encountering in communicating with and obtaining 
information from the hospital.  Im not aware  of whether AXA had any difficulties 
communicating with this hospital in previous cases.  Theres no indication it did but, even if 
that was the case, whats relevant here is what happened in Mr H1 and Mr H2s case and its 
difficult to see how AXA could have  dealt with the hospital  any differently. 
I agree  with Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative that AXA didnt handle this claim in a fair or 
reasonable way after a certain point  but I think this was from day 8 rather than from any 
earlier date. An insurer isnt obliged to accept a claim on a disclaimer  basis   this is 
something it may decide to do when handling a claim, based on its own commercial 
judgment. But there comes a point when  I think it might have been reasonable for AXA to 
consider accepting Mr H2s claim  on this basis and I think this was on day 8.  
Mr H1 and Mr H2s strength  of feeling  is clear  about what  they think  the consequences  of 
AXAs actions on Mr H2 have been. However, I dont think  the evidence Ive seen supports a 
conclusion that repatriating Mr H2 on day 8 is likely to have resulted in a different medical 
outcome for him.  
Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative has provided a contemporaneous handwritten note 
demonstrating AXA was told about  the possibility of Mr H2 having  been mugged on day 1. 
However, given the content of the police report and the circumstances of what happened, I 
remain of the opinion that AXAs further questions about this werent unreasonable.  
Ive also considered Mr H1 and Mr H2s representatives comments  regarding  AXAs  
questions about  Mr H1s position  within the company who brands this insurance policy.  I 
understand these  concerns but theres  no evidence Mr H2s claim would have been handled 
differently if Mr H1 was in a more senior  role at that company. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2s representative has raised  concerns about the way in which AXA has 
handled his subject access request. But, as weve explained in separate correspondence, 
this isnt something we can provide any further assistance with at this point.  
I want to emphasise that I dont  in any way underestimate the effects of these  unfortunate 
events on Mr H1 and Mr H2. I think its clear  there  were failings by AXA in this case,  but I 
think AXAs  payment of £2,000 is fair and reasonable compensation for these failings. 
Ref: DRN632840315This means  I wont  be changing  my provisional findings, so I wont  be directing AXA to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr H1 and Mr H2s complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H1 and Mr H2 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6328403