K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) shouldnt apply its 
early withdrawal charge  (EWC)  to a transfer of his drawdown pension  plan.  Mr A believes it 
should be considered to be an early  exit charge as defined by the Financial Conduct  
Authority (FCA) and therefore  should be capped at 1%.
background
Mr A held a number of pension plans with SJP, which in 2014,  had an approximate value of 
£775,761. In December 2014  SJP met with Mr A and recommended that he consolidated the 
pensions into a single drawdown plan. This was because Mr A planned to take some tax free 
cash and, as he was no longer going  to receive  any income, he could draw  a short  term 
income from the plan in June 2015.
Mr A was provided with a suitability report which included  full details of the fees and charges 
that would  apply to the transfer  of funds into the drawdown plan. Mr A gave his signed 
agreement to the fees and charges that would apply.
The 4.5% initial advice  fee was to be taken over a period of 6 years to limit its impact on 
investment performance  of the plan. The suitability  report noted  that an early withdrawal 
charge would apply to the plan on transfer within 6 years of inception. This meant that any 
balance of advice  fees owed to SJP would be applied to the transfer value if the plan was 
moved to a different provider.
In 2017 Mr A was reviewing his drawdown  plan and noticed a difference between  the unit 
value  and the encashment value of £27,875.  He said his understanding   following recent  
legislation  was that the maximum  early exit charge should  only be 1%. As he was 
considering transferring his drawdown  plan he asked  SJP for clarification on what  the charge 
should be.
SJP said that the EWC  wasnt  the same  thing as an early exit charge and therefore it was 
correct to apply  an EWC as set out in the information it originally provided Mr A.  But  Mr A 
was unhappy  with that response so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators investigated the matter and felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She found there was sufficient documentary evidence to show the EWC had been clearly  
defined and detailed.  There was also evidence of Mr As signed agreement to the application 
of relevant fees and charges  including the early withdrawal charge. She thought  that 
because the EWC represented  the balance of the initial advice  fee owed to SJP in relation to 
its work performed in 2014, it didnt meet the definition of an early  exit charge and therefore 
the 1% cap didnt apply.
Mr A didnt agree and said he believed SJPs EWC was actually an exit fee which should 
therefore be capped  in accordance with the FCAs guidelines. He said he wasnt satisfied 
that hed had a full explanation of the EWC and wanted the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman, so its been passed  to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
Ref: DRN69766492agreement with the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. I know  Mr A feels strongly 
about this matter and will be disappointed with this outcome so Ill explain why.
Mr A has been clear in what hes complained about here. He says SJP want  to charge him a 
3% EWC to transfer his pension plan to another  provider.  But he feels  that the regulator has 
made it clear  that any exit charge should be capped at 1% - and he says no one has 
explained the difference between this early  exit charge and SJPs  EWC to his satisfaction.
When Mr A took out his drawdown plan SJP issued an illustration showing  amongst other 
information  what he could expect to get back and what  charges  might be applied.  Section 
eight of the illustration  said our advice is not freethe cost of the initial  advice and our 
services will be £26,182. This cost covers all of our expenses  incurred  in providing, checking 
and guaranteeing advice.
Apart from this initial  advice cost SJP also levied  product charges and an ongoing adviser 
charge. But the initial  charge wasnt taken all at once  it was spread over a number of 
years. This meant that SJP had, in effect,  not taken all the charges it was entitled  to and 
therefore exposed  itself to losing these fees if Mr A transferred his plan elsewhere in the 
first six years. So SJP imposed an early  withdrawal charge which was designed to recoup 
these charges on a sliding scale basis, if necessary.
The same illustration from 2014 explained further  that An early withdrawal charge may be 
applied to your plan on transfer.  The early  withdrawal charge is calculated  separately for 
each contribution and is dependent upon the duration since  that contribution was paid. The 
charge is calculated as a percentage of the fund arising from that contribution,  and is applied  
on a sliding scale reducing from 6% in the first year after that contribution was paid to 1% in 
the sixth year.  
And the suitability report issued  in December 2014  confirmed the relevant charges to the 
plan. This included the EWC which the report noted will apply to the drawdown plan on 
funds encashed  within 6 years of a contribution being invested.  The charge will be 6% if 
encashed in the year after the contribution is paid, reducing by 1% pa to 1% in the 6th year, 
and 0% thereafter.
So Im satisfied that  when Mr A took out the drawdown plan, he was made aware of the 
EWC and when and how it would apply. I note he signed to say he accepted  the charges. I 
think the explanation was clear and SJP confirmed that the EWC would  apply within the first 
six years  if Mr A wanted  to transfer  his pension away. And as SJP has said the only way that 
the initial charge  could  be taken was to spread it over the first six years   it has confirmed  
there were no other options  I think its fair and reasonable for it to apply the charge in order 
to obtain the fees it expected to make from setting up the plan in 2014.
But Mr A has referred to the FCA guidelines around  early exit charges and says that, as he 
thinks SJPs EWC is an exit charge, those guidelines should  apply here.  And Mr A is 
correct that in 2017 the FCA, building on its treating customer fairly principles, introduced a 
restriction on early exit charges. The Conduct  of Business Obligations (COBS) 19.6A  
confirms the recommendation.
Restriction  on early exit charges on a member who joined or incremented a scheme 
before 31 March 2017.
Ref: DRN69766493A firm must not impose an early exit charge on a member of a personal pension scheme or 
stakeholder pension scheme  that exceeds  the lower of:
(a)1% of the value  of the members benefits being  taken, converted or transferred; or
(b)such lower  amount as was provided for under the scheme arrangements as at 
31 March 2017;  or
(c)where no such provision was made, no charge.
So I think its clear that if an exit charge is imposed on certain pension  plans,  the regulator 
has clarified that it shouldnt be more than 1% of the value.
But in this case I dont  agree that SJPs EWC  is an early  exit charge as described  above. I 
think an early  exit charge  is designed  to cover any penalties that might be imposed purely at 
the time a customer wants  to transfer  or draw his benefits. SJPs EWC wasnt defined  in that 
way as it was clearly explained  as a charge that would be imposed for the loss of fees it had 
already earned  but not received.  SJP  explained its initial advice  charge  was to cover all of 
our expenses incurred  in providing,  checking  and guaranteeing advice. I think SJP would 
have carried out those tasks when it set up the plan but it didnt  take all its charges for that 
work at once   it spread them over the first six years  of the term of the plan.  
SJP has explained  that this was to help the investment growth of the plan. It isnt for me to 
comment on such commercial decisions that a business may make   but I would expect SJP 
to have explained the effect of this decision.  And I think  it did that  as confirmed above  
when it stated how it would recover those charges  within the first six years, using the 
EWC.  
So I think there is a distinct difference between the two charges here.  I think  the early exit 
charge is designed to compensate a provider for the work it might  have  to do in transferring, 
converting or paying out a customers pension  benefits. Whereas the EWC is a charge to 
cover services that have  already been  carried out  but where the full initial  cost of the work 
involved hasnt been taken. In this case the EWC insured those costs could be recouped  
later on if Mr A decided to transfer his benefits within the six year period.
So I dont  think SJP has done anything wrong and I think its entitled to charge the EWC  as 
previously set out  if Mr A does decide  to transfer  his benefits elsewhere. And I wont be 
asking SJP to cap the charge in line with the FCAs guidelines on early  exit charges because 
I dont think that applies  here.
. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr As complaint against St. Jamess  Place  
Wealth Management Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6976649