K821x#15complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about Old Park Capital Limited  (OPC), the operator and investment 
manager of a Business Premises Renovation Allowance (BPRA) scheme (the scheme).  It 
was a collective  investment  scheme.  He invested in it in April 2013 and he says OPC:
Failed to inform him that insufficient  capital had been raised  for the scheme, which 
would have prompted him to exercise  a contractual right to withdraw his funds from it.
Failed to file tax returns   related  to the scheme   on time,  which  led to him facing 
HMRC fines.
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and mainly concluded as follows:
OPC  had not responded to information  requests from this service.
Therefore, a view on the complaint had to be concluded through  available  evidence  
(from Mr D), wider knowledge  about  OPCs  role in the scheme and information from 
previous decisions  from this service about the same complaint (from other 
complainants).
The failure to raise the requisite  capital  for the scheme increased  and altered  its risk 
profile  making  that profile different  from when  Mr D invested in it. It is likely  Mr D 
would have withdrawn  from it if he was aware of this failure and of the change in 
circumstances; it would have  been reasonable for him to do so; OPC was wrong to 
have failed to inform him about it; and its failure  deprived him of the opportunity, that 
he was entitled  to, to withdraw his investment.
OPC  is responsible for the HMRC fines applied against Mr D.
The complaint  should be upheld and OPC  should refund Mr Ds investment to him 
(with interest), should compensate him for the tax penalties  (arising  from the scheme) 
he faced (with interest) and pay him £750 for the trouble and upset the matter  has 
caused him.
Mr D accepted this outcome and provided evidence  of the tax penalties he incurred. OPC 
does not appear  to have provided  a response to the investigators findings.  The matter was 
then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a number  of the decisions  for the cases, from other complainants,  which feature 
essentially the same complaint. The other  complainants were fellow investors in the same 
scheme and they made the same  complaints as presented by Mr D. In most  of the 
complaints OPC did not responded meaningfully to this services findings on merit  and the 
same appears to apply  in Mr Ds case.  It is not clear  why this has been its approach. 
Nevertheless, I consider  that the investigator had enough available evidence  and wider  
information to determine his view on the complaint   the wider information includes  
documentation provided as part of the other  complaints  referred to this service. I have used 
the same  wider basis (of evidence and information,  including comments  from OPC) to 
determine this decision. I find as follows  
Ref: DRN61676052Tax Returns
Tax return  documentation, including those signed by OPC, confirms  its responsibility 
to file the schemes/its members tax returns.  The members  agreement for the 
scheme also refers to the operator/manager (which  was OPC) having an 
administrative obligation in this respect.
There is ample evidence of OPCs failure to file the tax returns  relevant to Mr D, to 
his investment in the scheme  and to his complaint. This includes evidence  of 
correspondence between  the schemes members and OPC  over this matter  and 
HMRC documentation  about  the fines incurred by Mr D. Mr D has also provided a 
helpful summary of the fines he incurred.
The contents of the cross correspondence  provide  enough basis to conclude  that 
OPC was responsible  for the relevant filing, had to be chased  and reminded to 
discharge its responsibility and had to be chased  to assist in addressing problems 
with HMRC arising from the late tax return filings.
Overall, I consider that OPC  was inefficient in filing the tax returns and that this led to 
the problems with and the fines from HMRC that Mr D faced. There  is wider evidence 
of the same cause  and effect in the other complaints referred to this service.  OPC 
had a regulated  duty to discharge this responsibility with due skill, care and diligence 
and it was aware of the requirement  to submit the relevant  tax returns on time (in 
order to avoid fines). Its failure to do so breached this duty and directly caused the 
fines applied to Mr D. It is responsible for compensating him in this respect.
Withdrawal from the scheme
There is evidence of an information memorandum (IM)  for the scheme. As I said 
above, other complaints about  OPC, about  the same scheme  and about  the same  
allegations as those made  by Mr D have been submitted to this service by other 
members of the scheme; one of the earlier complaints was determined  by another 
ombudsman; and some  have been determined  by me.
There are copies  of the IM within the documentation for all the complaints (about 
OPC and about the scheme) we have received. I have access  to them,  and I 
consider them applicable to Mr Ds complaint. The same applies to other relevant 
documents, including membership and management agreement  documentation for 
the scheme.
The IM refers to the scheme raising around  £7 million (roughly equally split between 
investor capital and loans) in order to acquire and develop  a specific commercial 
property for commercial purposes. It is in this context that it was sold as a scheme 
that benefits from potential BPRA based tax reliefs. 
Within the IM references are made to the different  details and terms of the scheme. 
These include a minimum investment subscription (made up of investor  capital and a 
loan element), a minimum investor capital  amount, a list of the scheme managers 
responsibilities (which expressly  include the duty to report  to and update the 
schemes members on their interests  in and progress of the scheme and to give them 
access to the schemes records) and, importantly  (and under the headings of LLP 
Financing and Risk Factors), confirmation  of the following   
Ref: DRN61676053The total funds required to be raised  by the LLP in order for the Offer to proceed are 
£3,750,000  [my emphasis]
If insufficient subscriptions  in the view of [the manager] are received and a financial 
close fails to occur, then monies subscribed,  with any interest  earned thereon,  will be 
returned to subscribers. [my emphasis]
The management agreement  for the scheme  echoed broadly the same list of 
responsibilities as provided in the IM and the terms for the scheme  addressed in the 
IM are broadly reflected  in the management and membership agreements.
OPC  has made the argument that raising capital  for the scheme  was supposed to 
span the 2012/2013  and 2013/2014 tax years and that development work was 
supposed to be agreed or begin  before the end of the first tax year (and before 
financing for the scheme was concluded) in order to qualify for tax relief related to 
that year. It has argued that the scheme was therefore permitted to proceed into 
action before its financing was completed and/or despite any shortfall in its financing. 
However, I consider  this argument  misses  the point.
Significantly less than the required  investor capital was raised for the scheme  
around 15% of it was raised, which amounted to around 7% of the total scheme 
funding required.  A loan facility  of around  £3 million was used to support this 
shortfall, but the effect was that the ratio of borrowing/debt to capital/equity changed 
drastically from what had been  presented to Mr D at the outset and, with this, the risk 
profile of the scheme also changed (increased)  significantly. The capital  to loan ratio 
was no longer broadly equal,  instead  the loan element was around six times the size 
of the capital element.
I consider that OPCs responsibilities  as manager and operator of the scheme  
included the duty to disclose this to Mr D at the time. This fell within its duty to report 
to, and update,  the schemes  members  on their interests in the scheme and on the 
schemes progress. I have not seen evidence that it did. Mr D says he was not 
informed and, on balance  (and in the absence of evidence  to the contrary),  I accept 
his assertion. 
In addition to OPCs  reporting obligations  the need to disclose the financing  problem 
to members like Mr D was also essential  in the context of the capital refund 
arrangement I quoted  above. With significantly less investor capital  than required,  the 
viability of the scheme  had to be doubtful and on that basis the prospect of refunding  
monies subscribed must have been  a probability, at least, if not a certainty. This 
could not have been reasonably concealed from the investors and it was 
unreasonable for OPC  not to have updated  any of them  in this respect.  
Even if OPC  decided  to be optimistic about the scheme despite the significant 
financing shortfall,  it managed and operated it on behalf  of investors like Mr D. If it 
believed there  was merit in proceeding further  despite the shortfall,  that should have 
been expressed as a part of a timely update  to him on the matter and he should have 
been given the option of either sharing  such optimism or exercising the right to 
withdraw his capital. It was unreasonable for OPC to deprive him of discretion/choice 
in this respect and that is what it did by not updating/informing him about the shortfall. 
Ref: DRN61676054Had Mr D been so informed, I am persuaded by evidence  that he would have 
withdrawn his capital.  Funding would have  been  essential to a scheme in which the 
sole or main activity was property  development. Without requisite capital to fund such  
development it is arguable that the scheme was no longer viable (especially as the 
investor capital generated was so significantly less than what  was required). I 
consider that this would probably  have  been  the rationale behind  a decision by Mr D, 
at the time (and if he knew about  the financing problem), to withdraw his capital.
Overall and on balance, I conclude that Mr D must be compensated by OPC in this 
matter too. Furthermore, I endorse the investigators finding that OPC should pay him 
£750 for the trouble  and upset he has been  caused in the matters related to OPCs  
mismanagement of the scheme.
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Mr D as close as I can to the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been  informed  about  the financing  shortfall  and had withdrawn 
his capital (and loan); and if OPC had not delayed in filing his tax returns. 
Tax Returns
Fair compensation for Mr D in this respect is to receive, with interest,  an amount that covers 
the total of all the fines and/or penalties  from HMRC that he faced and paid as a direct  result 
of OPCs delay in filing his and/or  the schemes tax returns. Mr D should share his evidence  
with OPC in this respect, if it has not already  done  so, in order  to help OPC calculate  the 
compensation figure that is due.
Withdrawal from the scheme
It is necessary to consider when Mr D ought  to have been told about  the financing  shortfall.  
This will help to define the point (thereafter) at which he would have been due a refund of his 
capital, having  previously asked for it in response  to news about the shortfall.  The decision 
that was made by another ombudsman (in one of the earlier complaints) considered  this too. 
The ombudsman concluded that the point at which the relevant complainant  ought  to have 
been due a refund is 30 June 2013.  I consider  this applies to Mr Ds complaint too.
OPC was aware of the shortfall around  the start of the 2013/2014 tax year; reasonable time 
should be allowed  for OPCs consideration of the impact of  the shortfall  and of any solution 
it might  have wished to explore (and propose);  had it then informed Mr D thereafter, around 
April 2013 as or soon  after he invested, reasonable time should  be allowed for Mr Ds 
consideration of his position (and his decision) in response to such an important update;  I 
am persuaded that he would have  decided to withdraw his capital (and any loan element), 
so reasonable  time should also be allowed for him communicating this and for the 
processing of such withdrawal; overall,  and subsequent to these allowances, I consider that 
the refund  of his capital (and any loan element) would have been  due to him by the end of 
the first quarter in the 2013/2014 tax year  that is, 30 June 2013.
The refund entitlement included any applicable interest (from  when the payment was made 
into the scheme to when  it was withdrawn  the first period) so this must be reflected  in the 
compensation due to Mr D. The effect being  that the refund amount that would have been 
due to him on 30 June  2013 would have included any applicable interest for the first period 
(the end of the first period being  30 June 2013)  and, as explained below,  additional 
Ref: DRN61676055interest must  then be calculated upon that amount  from 1 July 2013  to the date of settlement 
(the second  period). The interest rate applicable  for the first period does not appear to be 
stipulated in available evidence so the Bank  of England  base rate should be used in this 
respect.
what must  OPC do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, OPC  must:
Tax Returns
Pay him the amount equal to the total of all the HMRC fines and/or penalties  he 
incurred/incurs as a direct  result  of OPCs filing of his/the schemes tax returns at the 
times that it did; plus interest  from the time Mr D paid/pays  the fines/penalties to 
HMRC to the date OPC settles  this compensation; interest applies at the rate of 8% 
simple per year.
Withdrawal from the scheme
Pay him the amount equal to his capital investment plus interest at the Bank of 
England base rate from the date of his investment  up to 30 June 2013 (the refund 
amount);  plus interest  on the refund amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from 1 
July 2013 to the date OPC  settles  this compensation; plus any loan element of Mr 
Ds investment and plus any and all interest  payments and charges he 
incurred/incurs in relation  to that loan element.
[Mr D should give credit for any tax relief  (or similar benefit) he has received from 
HMRC in relation  to his investment in the scheme which  he has not paid back  and/or 
does not have to pay back.]
[If relevant  and if OPC  requests, Mr D should also assign to OPC any remaining 
interest he has in the scheme so that if there  is any present or future value in it such  
value would belong  to OPC.]
Pay him compensation  for any reasonable costs he has incurred, since  30 June 
2013, in trying to resolve the schemes  problems with OPC; and/or in trying  to 
dissolve or mitigate his interest in the scheme;  Mr D must  provide  OPC with 
documentary evidence of any such reasonable costs.
Trouble and Upset
Pay him £750 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the problems that arose 
from the scheme because OPC denied him the opportunity to withdraw his 
investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded (above).
compensation limit
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred  and when  the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
Ref: DRN61676056consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds  the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance.  Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely  that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such  balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting  independent  legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept  the decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I order Old Park Capital Limited to 
pay him compensation as detailed above  and to provide him with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6167605