K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr B says he was mis-sold the PPI.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc says its responsible for the sale and for this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think St Andrews made it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take 
it. Mr B doesnt recall how the PPI was sold. But he hasnt said anything  that makes  me think 
St Andrews  didnt give him a choice about taking the cover.  Or anything  that makes  me 
think St Andrews added the cover without him agreeing to it.
St Andrews  sold the policy by post without giving Mr B advice.  So St Andrews didnt have to 
check the PPI was right for Mr B. But it did have  to make sure Mr B got the information he 
needed to decide whether the PPI was right for him.
Mr B doesnt  think all aspects of the policy were explained thoroughly. Its possible the 
information St Andrews  gave Mr B wasnt as full or as clear as it shouldve been. But I think 
he chose to take the cover  so it looks to me like Mr B wanted  this sort of cover. Also, from 
what he has told us, Mr Bs work  sickness or redundancy pay wouldve lasted for up to six 
months. The PPI wouldve  paid out for longer - up to two years - for a successful disability or 
unemployment claim. And the benefit  wouldve been paid in addition  to Mr Bs work benefits. 
Also, based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, Mr B wasnt  affected  by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover   so the cover wouldve been useful if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the cover was affordable.  And although Mr B has told us his 
parents couldve  helped with his mortgage  payments instead, other peoples circumstances 
and ability  to help can change. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
Mr B off taking it.
In reaching this view Ive taken into account all Mr Bs points, including  what hes said about 
being fully solvent at the time and not in debt.  And being in a secure full time job that at the 
time hed been  in for a number of years - and in which  he was progressing  well at the time. 
Ive noted also that Mr B carried on in that employment for many  years afterwards. But I still 
think at the time of the sale it was possible that Mr B might  in future suffer  a loss of income 
due to disability  or unexpected involuntary  unemployment.  And Ive explained  why in those 
situations it looks like Mr B wouldve  found the cover  useful. So for this reason and the 
reasons Ive already given above,  having thought carefully about  these  points these points 
dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN67077642my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6707764