K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that a finance agreement brokered  by S.G. Petch Limited (S.G.Petch) was 
mis-sold to her.
background
Ms J took receipt of a new car in September 2015. She financed  the deal through  a four year 
hire purchase agreement that was brokered  by S.G.Petch. 
She says that when  she signed up for the deal the sales agent told her that, as she intended 
to either  keep or part exchange the car at the end of the deal, the mileage limit didnt matter 
and she should  choose the lower mileage limit of 5,000 per annum even though  she 
anticipated driving more miles.
When she tried to part exchange the car at the end of the deal she was shocked to find the 
car was worth  £1,200 less than the guaranteed future value  listed on the contract and that 
she therefore had negative equity towards  any new deal.
She said that if she hadnt been persuaded by the sales agent to take the lower mileage 
option she would not have  been  in that situation. So she complained to S.G.Petch.
They said that by selecting the 5,000  mile option  the effect was that the monthly payments 
would decrease  as opposed  to those on a higher mileage agreement. This, they said, was in 
anticipation of an increased valuation at the end of the agreement. They recalculated  the 
deal and explained that if Ms J had selected  a 10,000 mile limit she would  have paid 
£1,456.06 more in her monthly payments and the guaranteed future value would  have 
reduced by £334.82.  So they didnt think shed been disadvantaged and they could  not find 
any evidence that she had been  misinformed about  the agreement. They  explained that 
shed signed to explain she understood it.
Ms J was disappointed in S.G.Petchs response so she referred her complaint to this service 
and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He reviewed the calculations provided by the 
dealership and noted that Ms J would  have had to pay more for a 10,000  mile deal than the 
negative equity she now complained of. So he didnt think shed been disadvantaged. He 
could not find evidence to support Ms Js assertion that shed been told the mileage made no 
difference and he noted that she had signed  the finance  agreement to say she understood it. 
He thought it was reasonable  to therefore suggest Ms J would have read the agreement  and 
he therefore didnt  think it would be fair to ask S.G.Petch to take any further action.
Ms J disagreed with the adjudicator. She provided documents to support the shortfall  in the 
part exchange figure compared  to the figure required to settle  her agreement and she asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Ms J so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN65584652Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms J acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the finance  agreement should not have 
been misrepresented  to Ms J. If it was, and if that misrepresentation led Ms J to agree to a 
finance agreement  she would not otherwise have agreed to, then Id think S.G.Petch were  
responsible and Id ask them to take some  further action.
Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  here that the finance  agreement was 
misrepresented to Ms J. I understand  her testimony  but unfortunately the dealership dispute 
whats being said and Ive seen a copy of the signed  agreement in which Ms J confirms she 
has understood the arrangement.
And, even  if Im wrong  about  that, I dont think theres enough evidence to suggest if Ms J 
was aware of the impact of a lower mileage limit on the guaranteed future value  of the car 
she would  have not proceeded with the agreement.  The calculation  provided by S.G.Petch 
suggests that a higher mileage agreement  would, in this case, have led to Ms J paying 
£1,456.06 more. So it seems, in this case, the higher mileage deal would, in the long run, 
have been a more expensive option.
So I dont  think theres sufficient evidence here that the business have done  anything wrong 
and Im therefore not asking them to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6558465