K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly declined his travel  insurance 
claim when  he was unable to go on holiday due to depression.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on the 8 June 2020.  A copy of this is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision. In it I explained why I felt IPA hadnt treated Mr J 
fairly. I said I thought  it wouldve been  reasonable for it to have given him the opportunity  to 
try and provide  further medical evidence to support his claim.  And that I felt IPA ought to 
reconsider his claim,  subject to Mr J providing  the necessary evidence at his own expense.
Mr J didnt respond to my provisional decision.  
IPA responded  to say that it didnt  agree  with my provisional decision. It said that Mr J stated 
he hadnt sought medical advice to cancel the trip so it feels  it wouldnt have been possible 
for a GP to clarify that at the time of travel it was medically necessary to cancel his trip. And 
that it fairly  advised  Mr J that he hadnt  met the policy terms in order  to avoid him incurring 
unnecessary expenses obtaining a medical certificate, and to avoid delays.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusions I did in my provisional  decision.
I appreciate IPA feels that my provisional decision  contradicts  previous decisions made by 
our service.  But to be clear, its my role to review each case  on its own individual  facts. And 
our service  isnt bound by previous decisions made.
Here Im satisfied that Mr J provided  evidence which shows he did seek  medical  advice for 
his condition shortly  before he was due to travel. Im not in a position to decide what  his GP 
might or might not have felt able to say at the time. But Im still of the view that it wouldve 
been fair and reasonable for IPA to have given Mr J the opportunity to try and obtain further 
medical evidence  to support his claim. And that IPA should therefore reassess this claim  
should Mr J provide it with any further  medical  evidence (to be obtained at his own expense).
Ref: DRN64783412my final decision
My final decision is that I am partially upholding this complaint.
Should Mr J accept  this decision Inter Partner  Assistance  SA should contact him 
within 28 days of his acceptance with confirmation  of what  medical  evidence  it 
requires, and details  of what format this should  be in to enable it to reconsider his 
claim.  
Inter Partner Assistance SA should then reconsider his claim upon receipt of this 
information.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64783413copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr J complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly declined his travel insurance claim 
when he was unable to go on holiday due to depression.
background
In early February 2019 Mr J and his partner booked a holiday. They were due to travel on 28 March  
2019. Mr J had travel  insurance for the trip underwritten  by IPA.
Prior to their departure  date Mr J began to feel stressed at work. Hes told us he was having panic 
attacks, sweats, and not eating or drinking  properly.  He was also finding  it difficult to interact with and 
be around people. He visited his GP on 26 March 2019 and was signed off as unfit for work  until 16 
April 2019 due to depression. The GP told Mr J that it was his decision as to whether he would like to 
fly or not. Mr J decided he felt unfit to fly and cancelled his holiday.  He made a claim  to IPA.
IPA said that it was sorry to note the circumstances  involved in Mr Js claim, but that as he was not 
advised by his GP that it was medically necessary  for him to cancel his trip it was unable to pay the 
costs he was claiming. It referred Mr J to Special Condition 1 in his policy, which says;
 
If you are forced  to cancel your trip for medical reasons: 
a) relating  to you - you will be required  to have the relevant section of your  claim form completed by 
your usual registered medical practitioner within  the United  Kingdom,  explaining why it is deemed 
medically necessary for you to cancel  your trip;"
Mr J didnt think this decision was fair so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered what had happened  and said that she hadnt seen any evidence  that Mr Js GP had said it 
was medically necessary for him to cancel  his trip. And so she didnt feel she could  reasonably say 
IP had acted unfairly when it declined his claim.
Mr J didnt accept these findings so the case has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont think IPA has treated  Mr J fairly here. Ill 
explain why.
When looking  at this complaint Ive given  consideration  to the policy terms and conditions,  as well as 
industry guidance for insurers.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  Handbook sets out a number of Principles for Businesses, 
including: 
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them  fairly 
The Insurance  Conduct  of Business sourcebook  (ICOBS  available online) section  8 outlines  an 
insurers obligations  when handling a claim.  It says the insurer must
(1)handle claims promptly and fairly; 
(2)provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information 
on its progress; 
Ref: DRN64783414(3)not unreasonably reject  a claim  (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and 
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. 
I understand that Mr J did not feel up to travelling, and have no doubt  that the decision to cancel  his 
holiday would not have been one he took lightly. Ive listened to a call he had with IPA where he 
explained the circumstances under which hed taken the decision not to travel. He said he had 
suffered a bout of stress and depression that started towards the end of February, and that he later 
started having panic attacks as the date of his flight got nearer. He told IPA he had visited his GP and 
been prescribed medication and given  a medical note to sign him off work. He also said that he was 
advised that it might make him feel worse if he was to go away on his trip, and that the GP 
recommended that he didnt travel  but said that ultimately it was up to Mr J to decide  whether he went 
on the holiday  or not. 
IPA declined Mr Js claim on the basis of what he told it during the course  of this conversation. It did 
so because it didnt feel that it had been  deemed medically necessary  for Mr J to cancel the trip. 
I appreciate Mr J told IPA that it was ultimately  his own decision not to travel.  But illnesses such as 
stress and depression affect different people  in different ways. And there is always an element of 
personal choice as to whether or not a consumer follows  medical advice, which  I think is a point Mr J 
was trying to make to IPA on this phone call. 
The onus was on Mr J to demonstrate that he had a valid claim in line with IPAs policy wording. And I 
cant see that he provided  sufficient evidence to this effect. However ICOBS 8.1.1 does state that an 
insurer should  provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim. And in these  
individual circumstances I do think  it would  have been reasonable for IPA to have invited Mr J to 
present a claim form to his GP to see if he could  further substantiate his claim. This suggestion was 
not made on the phone call Ive listened to, and I cant see that Mr J was directed to do this at any 
other time either.
Given Mr J had been  signed off work  and prescribed medication,  I think its quite  plausible that his GP 
might have confirmed that travelling was likely  to cause  him stress and panic attacks as hes 
described. And it seems to me that it would  have been  reasonable for IPA to have steered Mr J as to 
the fact hed need to provide  it with this evidence if it was to consider his claim  further. As IPA failed to 
do this, I think  it would  be reasonable for it to reconsider  his claim, subject to Mr J providing the 
necessary evidence  in support of this claim, at his own expense. 
In its response to my provisional decision, IPA should confirm what  reasonable medical evidence it 
requires  and in what format  in order to reconsider Mr Js claim.
If, after IPA reconsiders this new evidence, Mr J is unhappy with IPAs decision about  his claim, he 
would have the right to complain to IPA about the matter and to bring a new complaint to this service  
if he so wishes.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr Js complaint in part. 
I intend  to direct that Inter Partner Assistance S.A. should reconsider his claim  subject to the 
applicable policy limits and/or excess, on the provision  of additional  supporting evidence from Mr J, to 
be provided  at his own cost.  
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6478341