K820x#14complaint
Mr D complained that American  Express Services Europe Limited (American Express)  mis-
sold his credit card payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr D took out the PPI policy  when he applied for a credit card in 2000. The application was 
made by post.
The policy cost 66p for each £100  Mr D owed  on his credit card. If hed successfully claimed  
on the policy for disability  or unemployment, each  month it would have paid out 5% of what  
he owed on the card when he stopped working.  This would have carried  on for up to 24 
months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think American Express had mis-sold  the policy. Mr D didnt agree with 
the adjudicator,  so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
American Express sent us a copy of Mr Ds credit card application form. The form shows that 
Mr D had to tick a box to say that he wanted the insurance, although he didnt have to sign 
separately for it. I think  Mr D could have chosen  not to tick the box. So I think  he was aware 
of the PPI at the time  and chose to take it.
I dont consider that American Express advised Mr D to take out the policy, so it didnt need 
to check if the PPI was suitable for him. But it should have given him enough information for 
him to decide whether the policy was right for him.
I cant see that the application  form showed  the cost of the policy, although it refers to a 
separate enclosed  leaflet.  I have a copy of the PPI policy,  but theres nothing to suggest this 
was provided to Mr D along with the application. So I dont know  what  information  Mr D 
would have had available  to him at the time of the sale.   
From what  Mr Ds told us about his circumstances in 2000, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put him off taking it out. I say that because, for example, it seems 
hed have been eligible for the cover. And theres nothing to suggest hed have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited  cover for.
Ref: DRN61492722Mr D was only entitled to limited statutory sick pay and had some savings he could have 
relied on for a time if he wasnt working.  From this I think  he could, quite quickly,  have found 
it difficult to meet the monthly payments if he couldnt work. Ive thought carefully about the 
critical illness and sickness cover  Mr D says he had that meant he didnt  need  PPI. But the 
critical illness cover would have provided a lump sum if Mr D was diagnosed with a relevant 
illness whereas  the PPI provided a monthly benefit  for disability or unemployment.  Which  
meant they covered very different things.
As for the sickness policy  Mr D mentioned, I have  very little information about it and Mr D 
doesnt recall how long it would have paid out for. That being the case, I havent seen 
enough to suggest it would have  meant  Mr D had no need for the PPI.  
All of which means  I think Mr D have seen  the PPI, which  potentially  paid benefits for up to 
24 months per claim, as providing  useful  protection.
While I dont think American  Express  has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D, it will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to him because:  
American Express got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr D about that. Because American Express didnt 
tell Mr D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, American Express has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that 
offers fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr Ds said, including what hes said about using the card 
extensively abroad. But these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
American Express has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. American Express  should 
also pay back to Mr D any extra interest  he paid because of that.
American Express should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr D the 
difference between  what  Mr D owes and what he would have owed if the commission and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. American Express  should also 
pay Mr D 8%* simple interest  if he paid off his credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr D any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Ref: DRN61492723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6149272