K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) over advice  its agents  gave her when 
recommending that she apply  for her current account to be upgraded. Her applications were 
declined and she is concerned that this has had a negative effect  on her credit  file. She 
wants HSBC to remove all references to the applications from her credit  file. 
background
Ms B is an overseas national, who moved to the UK around 2015. 
She began banking with HSBC. 
In autumn 2017,  Ms B attended her bank  and, whilst there,  was advised that she met 
HSBCs criteria for an account  upgrade.  
Ms B, acting on this advice, completed an application for an account upgrade with the 
adviser. 
Her application was declined,  and the adviser suggested that, in order to build her credit 
score, she apply for a credit card instead  and build  her credit rating, before applying again in 
a few months time.  
Ms B took up a credit  card, and later made  an appointment to reapply for her account to be 
upgraded. She attended a branch in December  2017 and completed  a second application 
with an adviser. 
This application was also declined. Ms B was not given the reason, and was advised  that 
she may wish to reapply  at a later date.
Ms B says that she then learned  that her applications would  be recorded on her credit file 
and would negatively  affect her credit  record. 
Ms B complained to HSBC. 
HSBC responded  to Ms B in February 2018. It acknowledged that she had been  advised to 
apply for the account upgrade as she met the account criteria, but explained that 
applications were  based on credit  scoring and could  not be guaranteed. 
HSBC accepted that Ms B had been advised to reapply in December 2017 and offered to 
remove the credit marker for this application from its reporting. 
Ms B was not happy with this offer and requested that HSBC remove both markers. 
HSBC sent a further response declining to remove  the other marker and asserting that Ms B 
agreed to the credit  scoring taking place at the time of the application.  
Ms B was not happy with this response  and contacted us. She states that she was not 
advised until after the applications had been made that these would involve credit searches  
and markers being left on her credit report.  
Ref: DRN63919682One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out a view to the parties.  This 
was that HSBC had demonstrated that its process  required  advisers  to explain that a credit 
search would  be carried  out, before a customer agreed to submit the application. He felt that, 
on the balance  of probabilities, Ms B was advised  that a credit  search  would be carried out 
before she agreed  to apply. He acknowledged that the agent was not able to know the 
outcome of any application before  it was submitted  and so felt that HSBC had acted fairly in 
agreeing to remove one of the credit searches. 
Ms B did not accept  this view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Bs concerns, and her explanation  that, knowing that she had not been in 
the UK long enough to build up a significant credit history, she would have been unlikely to 
have proceeded  with the applications if she had known that she was unlikely to succeed with 
the applications and that there could be negative  impact upon her credit file. 
I have reviewed the application  that was completed, and HSBC has subsequently provided 
additional images of the prompts which appear on screen for the adviser. They  have 
explained that this may be read out to the customer, or the screen  turned  to the customer so 
that they can read the text. 
This prompt says clearly that as part of the checks HSBC will consult credit reference 
agencies, and a search will be recorded as a result. It explains that if customers make  
several applications for credit within a short period of time the recorded searches may 
temporarily affect the customers  ability to get credit. It then asks if the customer  is happy  to 
proceed. 
I appreciate that Ms B does not recall agreeing to this credit check, but I agree with the 
adjudicators view that, on the balance of probabilities, it is likely that Ms B was informed on 
at least one of the occasions that the check would be undertaken,  and she agreed to this. 
I also think that the level of information  in the prompt was proportionate to the impact of the 
searches, and was reasonable.  
I agree  that it was appropriate for HSBC to remove one of the searches, as Ms B would not 
have been likely to reapply so soon without encouragement from the adviser, but overall I 
think that HSBC has acted reasonably in its handling of this complaint
As a result, I am unable  to uphold Ms Bs complaint and do not ask HSBC to do anything  
further. 
I realise that this will be disappointing  for Ms B, but I hope  that this explains my reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint and do not ask HSBC  UK 
Bank PLC to do anything  further. 
Ref: DRN63919683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6391968