K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Black Horse Limited (Blackhorse)  is not providing sufficient redress  to 
him after they agreed to terminate a finance  agreement he had to fund a car.
background
On 29 April 2018 Mr S took receipt  of a used  car. The car was financed  through  a hire 
purchase agreement  but very shortly afterwards he experienced problems with the car. 
Black Horse  organised an independent  assessment of the fault which confirmed the clutch 
was faulty. So they agreed  to allow Mr S to reject the vehicle and terminate  his finance 
agreement with them. They also returned  the travel  expenses Mr S said hed incurred of 
£176.74.
But Mr S didnt think theyd gone far enough. He said hed applied to work  as a taxi driver 
and he wanted  Black Horse to refund  his loss of earnings. And he also said Black  Horse had 
taken too long to resolve the issue. 
Black Horse  didnt think they needed  to recompense Mr S for his loss of earnings.  They  said 
he hadnt told them he was using the car for business use when  he entered into the 
agreement.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our investigator took a look at the 
evidence. He didnt  agree with Mr S. He noted  that Black Horse had responded within  the 
eight week timeframe the rules allowed so he didnt think theyd taken too long. And he also 
didnt think they needed to refund any loss of earnings. He explained that if the car was for 
business purposes Black Horse may have  changed the agreement and it may be that, if that 
were the case,  the agreement may not have been regulated and we may not have been able 
to consider his complaint. So it was his view that Black Horse  didnt need to take any further  
action.
But Mr S disagreed. He said that there  was nothing in the agreement  that precluded him 
from using the car for business  and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Black  Horse has done enough  so I wont be asking them to take any further action. I 
know that will disappoint Mr S and I understand hes provided a lot of evidence  and invested 
considerable time in making  his claim.  So please  let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied and that, if it wasnt,  as is the case 
here, the credit provider  Black Horse can be held responsible.
Ref: DRN61384162Black Horse  has accepted  responsibility for the car not being of satisfactory  quality and has 
rightly allowed Mr S to terminate the finance  agreement he has with them and reject the car. 
As theyve  completed  this within  the eight week time frame allowed by their regulator the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) I dont agree with Mr Ss assertion that they took too long.
loss of earnings
Mr S says he was using the car as a private  hire taxi during the weekends and Black Horse  
should reimburse his loss of earnings.  
Black Horse  says that it was not aware  that Mr S proposed to use the car for private  hire 
purposes when  it agreed to grant  the credit. I understand  Mr Ss main  income  is from 
another job but if hed told Black Horse he was also using the car as a taxi I think they would 
have been likely to have reconsidered  the agreement. And the fact Mr S was using the car 
as a taxi was an important fact, not a trivial one. It was a fact that I think Mr S should  
reasonably have expected Black Horse to be interested in. I think it would have been fairer 
for Mr S to disclose it as it may have  resulted  in Black Horse  making a different decision on 
whether to provide the finance.
And if Black Horse  hadnt been told about  Mr Ss other job I dont think it would be fair to 
expect them to have  contemplated  the implications of refunding  loss of earnings if the 
contract was breached.
So I think Black  Horse  has done  enough  here and I wont  be asking them  to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6138416