K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  didnt pay him enough for his 
written-off car when  he made a claim on his motor  insurance policy.
background
Advantage offered Mr R £3,670 for his car. It used the figures  provided  in three of the 
national motor trade guides to decide  what the pre-accident market value of Mr Rs car was. 
Mr R told us he thought  Advantage  should have offered him at least  £5,000. He said hed 
given it examples of similar cars for sale that averaged around  that sum. And he didnt think  
Advantage had noted how well hed looked after his car. 
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Rs complaint. He said we normally think its fair for an 
insurer to assess a cars market value  as Advantage had done.  He said advertised prices 
are normally  inflated,  so we dont place  much weight on them. The investigator  checked that 
Advantage had used  the right valuations.  He said they took into account that Mr Rs car had 
been properly  maintained  and was in good  condition prior to the accident.  
The investigator also checked a fourth motor trade guide. It quoted a sum well below the one 
Advantage had offered Mr R. He also did some research. He found many examples of cars 
like Mr Rs car on sale for under £4,000. Mr R then sent in examples  of cars priced between 
£6,795 and £5,990.  The investigator adjusted the search using a mileage limit closer to that 
of Mr Rs car. He found some similar cars (still with lower mileage than Mr Rs car) on sale 
for between  £2,495 and £3,995. Mr R said that only one of them had the same engine size 
as his car. It also had similar mileage, and was priced at £2,995.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has explained our settled view in dealing with complaints about valuations. 
We generally think its fair for insurers to rely on trade guide  prices, as theyre based on 
extensive national  research of likely selling prices. We think  adverts are generally unreliable. 
Thats partly  because they usually show prices that are open to negotiation.  But often theres 
also great variation  between asking prices for what seem to be similar cars. 
I think the research  done by Mr R and by the investigator illustrates  that point. Mr R thought  
his car was worth at least  £5,000. But a number of similar cars were on sale for between  
£6,795 and £2,495.    
I think Advantage acted  reasonably in following our settled  approach.  It offered Mr R the top 
valuation set out in the trade  guides.  That reflected the cars good condition  and mileage. I 
think Mr R was bound to be disappointed  to be offered less than he thinks  his car is worth.  
But as I dont think Advantage  has done anything wrong. It follows  that I cant  uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.  
Ref: DRN69298932my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6929893