K821x#15complaint
Mr E says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr E took out in 1994.  It was added to his 
account when  he applied for the card.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt accept the adjudicators  opinion  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.  
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Es told us he was employed on a temporary  basis when he took out the PPI. So Ive 
looked at whether Mr E was eligible to claim under the terms of the policy sold to him. 
FICL has said there is no evidence of Mr E being  a temporary worker and has referred to the 
questionnaire Mr E completed with the correct  date of sale.  Ive thought  about  this, but Im 
mindful the questionnaire  was completed with a different employer to the one shown on the 
application form Mr E signed at the time. Having looked at the application form, I can see the 
options for employment status are limited  and Mr E didnt have the option  to choose 
temporary work. 
Our adjudicator contacted Mr E about  his employment details and hes confirmed he was 
working on a temporary basis and that it was a temporary contract for six months.  The 
application form shows Mr E had been  working in the role for three  months at the time of 
sale. Based  on everything Ive seen and been  told Ive no reason to doubt what Mr E has 
said about this. 
FICL has told us that even if Mr E was a temporary  worker he may have still been eligible  to 
claim.   
Ref: DRN63225642Ive considered this point.  While the exact policy terms  and conditions  are not available from 
the time this policy was sold,  Ive looked  at the policy terms available closest  to the date of 
the sale. Broadly  speaking, the terms dont  pay unemployment claims that occur  as a result  
of a normal or seasonal  occurrence in occupation  or which results in the expiry  of a fixed  
term contract of employment.  
I think the terms that applied to Mr Es policy are likely to have been very similar to the policy 
I have looked  at. Given what Mr E has said about  his employment circumstances at the time 
of sale I dont think he would have been easily able to claim on the policy  for unemployment  
for the reasons Ive said above. And had the terms and conditions  been made clearer to Mr
E, I dont think he would have taken  out the policy if he had understood this.
And because of what FICL did wrong,  I think Mr E has lost out. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mr E in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr E would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr E owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr E made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr E would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr E would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr E 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr E paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr E 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mr E what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr
E a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr E that relates to this PPI sale,  
that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.  
Ref: DRN63225643my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Es complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6322564