K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC treated him unfairly by rejecting his 
claim  under section 75 the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a car that wasn't of 
satisfactory quality  and which had been mis-represented  to him by the dealership.
background
In August  2017 Mr E ordered a new vehicle from a dealership. He paid the £500 
deposit on his Tesco credit card.
Mr E collected  the car in January 2018. Mr E discovered that the offside rear passenger 
seat bracket wasn't flush to the floor meaning that two of the rear seats couldn't  be used 
reducing  the vehicle from being  a seven seater  to five seater. Mr E took the car to the 
manufacturer's  main dealership for the problem  to be looked at.
At the end of January  2018 Mr E wrote to the dealership that had provided the car 
asking to reject it but Tesco says in this letter  that Mr E also said that he would  be 
open to another  resolution such as having  the car repaired.
Mr E tried to have the matter resolved  with the manufacturer  but for some  reason the 
car wasn't repaired. In March 2018 Mr E wrote a letter  of complaint to the dealership.  
He said that the car wasn't new as had been advertised but had actually been 
registered to another  company in December 2017 before then being  supplied  to him in 
the following  January. He said he wasn't told that the car had been pre-registered 
when he'd ordered  it.
Mr E also said the car wasn't  of satisfactory  quality and that although he'd been dealing 
with the manufacturer over the past six weeks it had been unable  to inform either 
whether it would carry out the necessary repair or when it would do so. He said this 
was unreasonable.
Mr E also explained that as he'd been concerned  about the potential safety of the car, 
and that the seat bracket  fault was possibly due to a more serious issue  with the 
chassis, he'd commissioned an independent inspection of the car. Mr E said this report 
had confirmed that while the car was safe to use there was a fault with the rear 
passenger seat.  
Mr E requested by letter  that the dealership replace the car under section 23 of the 
Consumer  Rights Act 2015.  Shortly after this letter Mr E further complained to the 
dealership  that the car hadn't been provided  to him with a full warranty as the warranty  
had actually  commenced around three weeks prior to him acquiring the car which was 
when it'd been  first registered. He said he was also unable to obtain a copy  of the pre-
delivery inspection report  as he wasn't  the registered owner at that time.
The dealership offered to take back the car and refund Mr E. Mr E rejected the offer 
as he said he wouldn't now be able to get the same car due to an increase in its price. 
The dealership said it then offered to cover the cost of the repairs to the passenger 
seat due to the slow response from the manufacturer.
Ref: DRN67802642Mr E made a claim to Tesco under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
He requested  that Tesco provide  the remedy he'd requested from the dealership,  
namely a replacement vehicle.
Tesco declined Mr E's claim. It said that the aim of section 75 was to return  the 
customer to the position they'd been  in before they'd entered the contract  and it didn't 
allow for the provision  of funds for the purchase  of a new more  expensive vehicle.  It said 
that the dealership had offered him two alternatives which were fair and reasonable 
solutions to the problems  with the car, and both of these solutions were still open to him. 
Tesco said in these  circumstances it was unable to progress his claim.
Mr E complained to Tesco  about its decision.  Tesco didn't change  its view and so Mr E 
complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended  that Mr E's complaint should be upheld  but not with the 
outcome requested by Mr E of a replacement car being provided.  The investigator  noted 
that the dealership had now withdrawn  its offers to resolve the matter  and he said Tesco  
should'v e been aware that this change of mind could've arisen.  The investigator said 
Tesco  should've agreed to either  affect the repairs or allowed Mr E to reject  the vehicle.
The investigator also said that Tesco should've offered  to cover the cost of the 
independent  inspection  as this had been used as evidence to confirm the fault with the 
vehicle's  passenger  seat and so would've  been an expense met by Tesco  if it had to 
investigate  whether the problem had been  there at the point of sale or not.
However, the investigator said that he didn't  think the reduced warranty  period and the 
car being pre-registered were sufficient in themselves to justify rejection of the van. This 
was because the warranty period was only shortened by a very limited  period  of time 
and was unlikely to have any impact if the car developed any faults. And the car, 
although pre- registered had never  actually been used and due to the pre-registration  
there'd been a reduction in the price.  The investigator said he appreciated that the 
resale value  of car could  be affected by it having more registered keepers but as Mr E 
had said he intended  to keep  the car for many  years it wasn't  possible to know  whether 
that would actually be the case or not.
The investigator said he thought it would be fair for Tesco  to affect the repairs  to the 
passenger seat and if these were unsuccessful then it should accept rejection  of the 
car. He said that as the dealership no longer  had this particular make and model  of car 
available at the discounted price  then any replacement  would have to be an updated 
and more  expensive  version  this would be a disproportionate remedy. Under  section 23 
of the Consumer Rights Act 2015  a seller can't require a trader to replace goods if to do 
so would  be "disproportionate"  compared  to other available remedies.
Mr E disagreed with the view of our investigator. He raised a number of points:
Firstly that there was a fundamental difference between a new vehicle and a 
pre- registered one and that it was misleading to say a car was new in these  
circumstances. He also said that he'd complained to Trading Standards about 
the adverts used  by the dealership which described vehicles as "new" when 
they were  pre-registered. Following  an investigation the dealership's  website 
Ref: DRN67802643had been altered  with information now being provided about the registration  
process used for the vehicles being  offered for sale.
That he'd entered  into a contract  for a new vehicle  and had never agreed to a 
lower  price  because the car had been  pre-registered.
That while he accepted that the car specified  in the contract was now being 
marketed  as a more  expensive product following a relaunch  this vehicle  still 
conformed to the contract  he'd entered into with dealership. He said that if he 
was offered  the 2018  model  he would have  no grounds on which  he could reject 
it. Mr E rejected that a replacement  car would be "betterment". He said that he'd 
had to use a vehicle  for the past few months  that had two seats missing  and so 
any betterment from a replacement  vehicle would be "incidental".
That under section 23 of the Consumer Rights  Act 2015  a trader could seek  to 
either  repair or replace faulty  goods and the trader  had the right to choose  
which of the two options depending  on the cost. The trader couldn't  choose  
another remedy  such as rejection of the goods as a more preferable outcome. 
And as the pre-registration  of the vehicle  wasn't something  that was "repairable" 
then repair  wasn't an option  that the trader could pick meaning  the provision for 
rejecting a replacement   for being  disproportionate   couldn't  be invoked.
That the car had been marketed with a "full warranty"  but this was not the 
case as this could  only be provided with a new car. The reduction  of the 
warranty again  pointed  to the contract  being  for a new vehicle and not a pre-
registered one.
That Tesco had been aware  of the passenger seat bracket being faulty  for the 
past nine months and under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 repairs  should  be 
affected  within a "reasonable time." No repairs  had been undertaken and due 
to the passage  of time repairs  would now be too late. Tesco was now obliged 
to replace the car because of the delay.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint  was passed to me. I issued  a 
provisional  decision  along  the following  lines.
section 75 Consumer Credit  Act 1974
Mr E's complaint was against  Tesco following its rejection of his claim under section 75. 
Section 75 provides consumers with extra  protection in certain circumstances. It means  
that a credit provider (in this case Tesco)  takes  the same responsibility as the trader if 
there was a breach of contract or if an item or service had been misrepresented.
was there a misrepresentation?
I'd seen that Mr E ordered  a particular make and model of a car in August 2017.  This 
form says that the "Date of Reg will be in approx 20 weeks" and that the mileage will be 
"Delivery." There was nothing on the order form that referred  to the vehicle being pre-
registered.  The invoice  for the vehicle  stated that it came with "New car warranty".
Ref: DRN67802644At the end of February 2018  Mr E received the V5 document for the car. This 
document  showed there was a previous registered  keeper  and so Mr E became 
aware the car wasn't  new as he'd believed and he felt the car had been 
misrepresented to him.
While I hadnt seen any direct evidence that the car was marketed as "new" I 
accepted this hadn't been disputed by the dealership or by Tesco. I'd also seen  that 
Mr E made a complaint  to the Advertising Standards Council and Trading Standards 
about the way the dealership had advertised  pre-registered vehicles  which directly led 
to the dealership now advertising them as "used" rather than new.
Mr E had also ordered  this car many weeks in advance of its delivery so I thought it was 
reasonable to say that Mr E was expecting a new vehicle and that he would  be the first 
registered owner,  rather than a used or pre-registered one which  would have been 
available much sooner.
So I was satisfied the car was advertised  as new and Mr E hadnt been aware that it had 
been  registered to another company before  being placed in his name when it was 
delivered. And I could understand why Mr E felt the car wasn't "new" though it hadn't 
been used on the road when  he acquired  it. The only mileage was for delivery of the car 
to the dealership.
The next issue for me to consider is whether  Mr E's belief that he would be the first 
registered keeper  of the vehicle induced  him into entering into the contract to buy it. Mr E 
said had he known about the pre-registering of the car he wouldn't have purchased it 
and that he was unaware of any reduction  in the price. However, although I accepted 
that Mr E has concerns  that the car being  pre-registered means that the sell on price 
could be affected  I'd also seen that he intended to keep the car for several years.  So I 
thought it was likely  this concern  wouldn't have been a deciding factor in going  ahead  
with buying  the car.  I'd also seen that he'd saved up, ordered the car he'd wanted and 
waited several weeks for its arrival. So takin g that into account I think Mr E would've still 
gone ahead had he found  out that the vehicle was pre-registered.
So looking  at the evidence I didnt think Mr E's belief that he would be the first (and only)  
registered keeper  was a key factor when he decided to buy the vehicle. He was still 
getting a vehicle  with delivery  mileage  to the specification he required that hadn't  been 
driven by anyone else.
 
remedy for misrepresentation
Because I've found that there was no misrepresentation.  I didn't need to decide  what 
an appropriate remedy would be. If I had found there'd been a misrepresentation then 
the remedy  would usually be to put Mr E back in the position he would've been had 
there been  no misrepresentation.  That's not the same however as requiring  that he be 
provided with a new car that hasn't been  pre-registered.
was there a breach of contract?
Shortly after obtaining the car in January 2018  Mr E complained that the car was 
faulty. He arranged  an independent  report that has confirmed there was a problem with 
one of the passenger seats and that this had been present from the point  of sale. So 
the goods  weren't of satisfactory  quality and there was a breach of contract.  
Ref: DRN67802645I also thought it was arguable that there was a breach of the contract by the car being 
pre-registered as Mr E had expected to be the first registered  keeper. There are some  
differences between  a "new" car and a pre-registered one such  as the length of the 
warranty.  However, the car hadn't been  used, the mileage only being what had been  
incurred in delivery  and the warranty period could've been  extended, so I thought  it 
was equally arguable  the car could be considered as "new".
remedy for breach of contract.
The law provides for a range of remedies where  goods are faulty, including repair,  
rejection  and replacement. The dealership said it had offered Mr E a repair as the 
manufacturer was taking too long to resolve the matter. Mr E said it hadn't offered the 
repair as he was asked  to arrange the quote  himself. However,  I didn't think  such  a 
request was unusual or unfairly  onerous  so I thought it was reasonable to say that Mr E 
had decided not to proceed with this offer.  That was his choice. And I understood why 
he may have  had reservations about  that repair  given his experience of having just 
bought a new vehicle. But it seemed the dealer had offered  something  that might 
have addressed Mr E's concerns. I noted  that the manufacturer hasn't  completed a 
repair.
I accepted that the car being "pre-registered"  was not something that can be repaired.
the law and my role
Mr E had raised section 23 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and he's also referenced 
case  law concerning "betterment". I don't apply  the law directly.  But I have to take it into 
account  in reaching  what I consider  to be a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr E's 
complaint against  Tesco Bank.
remedy for this complaint
Mr E says that due to both the misrepresentation and the quality  of the vehicle it was fair 
for him to have it replaced with a new one. But I didn't agree  with this view. Mr E had 
agreed to buy a 2017 model however he couldn't have that now as it was not available.  
And I didn't think it was fair to get a newer  model  (2018 or 2019) for a 2017 price. Mr E 
said that it was too late for the car to be repaired in respect  of the seat but I didnt think 
that it was too late to affect  a repair as this opportunity hadn't yet been taken up. But I 
appreciated that repairing the seat wouldn't rectify  the car being pre-registered.   So I 
thought allowing Mr E to reject the vehicle  was the fairest  outcome  for his complaint as it 
addresses his concerns about  the seat and the car being pre-registered.
So I was intending  to uphold Mr E's complaint and ask Tesco to arrange for the car to 
be collected at no cost to Mr E. I was aware  that the value of the car would have  now 
depreciated  and that Mr E has had use of it since January 2018 (although  I accepted he 
hasn't been  able to use it as he'd wanted due to the seat issue). The car now had a 
mileage of around  10,250.  It was usual that a deduction is made for usage from any 
repayment arising  from a car being  rejected. So in light of that I wasnt  going to ask 
Tesco to reimburse  the cost of the independent report, the costs  of the road fund licence 
(£500) or any insurance costs incurred  by Mr E.
Ref: DRN67802646I'd seen that the cost of the car was £24,412.63 plus a £500 deposit paid on Mr E's 
credit  card.  The starting point was that Tesco  should refund the £24,412.63 together 
with interest but it's entitled to deduct  from that amount any refurbishment  costs that 
have arisen from Mr E's use of the car that was above what would be expected from fair 
wear and tear. The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association ("BVRLA")  guidelines  
were to be applied. However,  either Tesco or the dealership would have  to cover  the 
cost of the car's depreciation.
Tesco should  also refund on to Mr E's credit card the £500 deposit hed paid for 
the car together with interest.
Mr E disagreed  with my provisional  view.  He said that hed only ever wanted  to 
buy a new car and didnt  accept  that he wouldve  gone  ahead  with the purchase  if 
hed known  the car was pre-registered.  However,  any misrepresentation  of the car 
by the dealership  was irrelevant  to his complaint  as the issue  was one of breach  
of contract.  He had agreed  to buy a new  car and that characteristic  of the car 
was a contractual  term.  And that following  case  law new  indicated  no previous  
keepers.   
Mr E disagreed  that he had been  offered  a repair  and there  couldnt  be an 
expectation  or obligation  on him to arrange  or carry  out the repair  to the seat.  
Neither  the trader  nor Tesco  had arranged  for the car to be inspected  or repaired.  
He said reimbursement  didnt  amount  to offering  a repair  under  Section  23(2)  of 
the Consumer  Rights  Act 2105.
Mr E didnt  accept  that my provisional  remedy  to his complaint  was fair. He said 
that a replacement  vehicle  was an appropriate  remedy  and didnt  amount  to 
betterment  as that would  be an incidental  outcome.  He said that when  goods  were  
replaced  under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2105  this should  be unaffected  by any 
subsequent  price  rise. And that the specifications  of his cars  model  and the newer  
one were  more  or less identical  so there  were  no material  differences  between  
them.  He said the contract  had never  specified  the vehicle  would  be a 2017  
model.
Tesco  also disagreed  with my provisional  view.  It said that it accepted  it was likely  
the car had been  faulty  at the point  of sale,  but the offer by the trader  to repair  or 
give a full refund  had been  reasonable  at the time.  The merchant  wasnt  obliged  
under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  to provide  a remedy  that was 
disproportionate  to the cost of repair  or refund.
Tesco  said that by offering  a fair resolution  to Mr E the trader  had complied  with 
the Consumer  Rights  Act and if a breach  of contract  takes  place  and a remedy  is 
available  then this rectifies  the breach.  However,  Mr E had rejected  the offer and 
continued  to use the car. Tesco  said that Mr Es continued  use of the car 
constituted  an acceptance  of its current  condition.  It said the fairest  outcome  
would  be for the car to be repaired.
Ref: DRN67802647Tesco said it was concerned at my provisional  remedy as it didnt allow for a 
deduction for usage which would  be appropriate. Tesco said it didnt think the 
BVRLA guidelines applied as the car wasnt leased or rented. 
Tesco further said that the invoice  and order form for the car stated that vehicles 
came pre-registered to obtain  a discount and so Mr E wouldve been aware this was 
a possibility for the car hed ordered.
Finally Tesco said that replacement wasnt possible due to the cost and was a 
disproportionate outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E says that the main issue raised in his complaint was that there was a breach of contract 
as the car wasnt new but was pre-registered. He says hes disappointed  I havent dealt 
with that point more fully in my decision. Tesco  says that Mr E shouldve been aware that 
there was a possibility  the car was pre-registered as this was raised in the dealerships 
paperwork.
As set out above I was satisfied that Mr E ordered  a new car and I havent changed my view 
on that. Ive also seen that the order form states  under the heading  Vehicle Descriptions 
that If you have opted for the highest  possible discount level we can offer on that specific  
product there maybe a short two week delay  in receiving the V5 in your name back from 
DVLA as it may be first registered to ourselves. However I havent seen any evidence  that 
Mr E took this option so I dont agree with Tesco that he shouldve been aware that the car 
mightve been pre-registered.
Mr E says he ordered a new car and that this characteristic  was part of the contract  with 
the dealership.  However I think its arguable that Mr E received a new car if the description 
of new was that it came with delivery  mileage, was in showroom condition  and hadnt  been 
used by anyone else. 
Mr E says case  law supports that new cars should  not be registered to others first as this 
could amount to a false trade description. And I accept that there are differences  between a 
new car and a pre-registered one such as the length of warranties  and that resale prices can 
be impacted by the number of registered keepers.  However the resale  point didnt appear to 
be relevant to Mr Es plans for the car, and the warranty run out around three weeks earlier 
than if the car had only been registered  to Mr E.  So its probable that these differences  
would have only had a minor impact on Mr E. In regards  to the case law, as already 
explained above, I dont apply the law directly so although I take it into account  Im not 
bound to always follow it.
I dont think its necessary for me to resolve whether there was a breach  of contract or not as 
to whether the car was new or not. This is because that finding doesnt  alter the remedies 
that are available. I accept Mr E was disappointed the car wasnt  new and it wasnt  what hed 
wanted or expected.
I think its clear  that there was a breach of contract in regards  to the condition  of the car due 
to the faulty seat. Mr E says he accepts the dealership  offered  to reimburse him if he 
Ref: DRN67802648arranged the repair himself at a local garage.  He says this didnt amount to what is required 
by S 23(2)  of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and so he says it was only an informal  offer to 
repair. Mr E says he made considerable efforts to have the car fixed  including an 
independent inspection and hasnt been reimbursed for the costs that were incurred in doing 
so.
However, I think the dealerships offer to reimburse the repair  costs  was reasonable and not 
one that was unusual where these circumstances arise. So I think  Mr E declined  this offer 
but as set out above I understood why he may have chosen to do so.
Tesco says that by declining the two offers by the dealership of either reimbursing the costs  
of the repairs, or taking  the car back and reimbursing what Mr E had paid, Mr E has 
accepted the car. It says these remedies wouldve corrected the breach and so the fairest 
solution now would be for the car to be repaired.  However, repairing the seat wouldnt 
address the issue  that the car was pre-registered so I dont think repairing the car as a 
remedy is sufficient. And I dont think from the evidence  that it would be fair to infer Mr E has 
accepted the car. He has been  actively pursuing  his complaint.
Mr E says the only fair remedy is for the car to be replaced and although this means he will 
receiver a newer car at a higher cost this doesnt  equate to betterment.  He says I havent 
set out clearly why I considered this remedy unfair and unreasonable.
Mr E disputes the contract was for a 2017  model  as this isnt specified  in the order  form. 
However the car being new also isnt specified but is taken from the way the car was 
advertised. I think looking at that order form that its more likely than not that Mr E was 
expecting a late 2017 model.  So I am satisfied the contract was for a 2017 model and that 
the current model has a different specification to this one.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  if a consumer chooses not to exercise the right to 
reject goods  then they will be entitled to claim a repair or replacement.  However  the 
consumer cant chose  to repair  or replace if the remedy is either  impossible or 
disproportionate. Here  Im satisfied that replacing  the car with a newer more expensive 
model is disproportionate and therefore an unfair  outcome.  I dont agree with Mr E that he 
wouldnt be put in a more advantageous position  if a newer  model was now provided. The 
car he was supplied with was a 2017 model  and it simply isnt possible to replace that model. 
Im satisfied that now receiving a 2018/9  model  would amount  to betterment.
Tesco says if the car is returned then an amount should be deducted for usage.  This is 
usually the approach taken when a car is rejected and returned. I have considered  whether 
an amount should  be taken  off the reimbursement to Mr E as hes had use of the car since  
January 2018  but I havent  changed my mind on this point. Its accepted that Mr Es car had 
faulty seats reducing the car from a seven seater to a five. This fault has persisted from the 
time he acquired it and has significantly limited  his ability to use the car in the way hed 
planned. Ive also seen that the mileage is lower  than average use. So in light of that I think 
its fair for either Tesco or the dealership to cover the depreciation in its value even though  I 
accept that some of that depreciation will be due to Mr Es use. However, I dont thinks  it fair 
to require Tesco to reimburse Mr E with any of the other expenses  hes incurred such as 
obtaining the report, insuring and taxing the car.
So for the reasons given above  I havent changed  my view and Im upholding Mr Es 
complaint but Im not asking  Tesco to provide  the remedy  hes requested.
Ref: DRN67802649Im asking Tesco to collect the car at no cost to Mr E and, as a starting point, refund him the 
£24,412.63 for the cost of the car together with interest. However  Tesco is entitled to 
deduct from that amount  any refurbishment  costs that have arisen from Mr E's use of the 
car over the time he has had it that were above  what would be expected  from fair 
wear and tear. Im still requiring  that the BVRLA  guide lines are applied. I accept that the 
car is neither leased nor rented but I think these guidelines, as they set the industry 
standard as to the condition of a used car, objectively and fairly assist  as to whether there 
are any refurbishment costs that should  be borne by Mr E.
Tesco must also refund on to Mr E's credit card the £500 deposit hed paid for 
the car together with interest.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Es complaint. Im asking Tesco Personal  
Finance PLC to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr E.
Reimburse £500 to Mr E's credit  card together with interest at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr E the sum of £24,412.63, together with interest  at the 
rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement. However  this amount is subject to a deduction for any 
refurbishment costs that arise from Mr E's use of the car which are 
considered to be above fair wear and tear. The BVRLA  guidelines are to 
be applied.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6780264