K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited has declined  their home insurance 
claim for storm  damage  and cancelled their policy for alleged fraud.
background
In February 2019  Mr L made a claim to UKI. He advised it that his garden wall and fence had 
been struck by a garden trampoline during high winds and had fallen down. UKI called Mr L 
to discuss the claim and he advised  it that the fence and the wall were  in good condition  
prior to making the claim. He said hed contacted a contractor to estimate for the repairs on 
the day of the claim. However  it transpired  that hed contacted the contractor  by text a few 
days before  asking him to come out and look at the fence (and, its alleged,  the wall).
UKI spoke  to the contractor who confirmed that hed been asked by text a few days before to 
quote for some work in the rear garden  and also that there was an issue  with the wall. It put 
this to Mr L who said that he had contacted the contractor a few days before about  replacing 
the garden fence.  Mr L said he'd contacted the contractor about the fences not because  they 
were damaged but because they were  considering  getting them replaced.
UKI said that the circumstances showed  that Mr L had asked for a quote  for the wall and 
fence to be repaired before the claim and that he had altered the facts  so he could make a 
claim for the wall and the fence when there was windy weather. It said this was a breach of 
the fraud condition in the policy. In accordance with that condition it cancelled the policy from 
the date of the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that UKI hadnt shown us enough 
evidence to support  its finding that Mr and Mrs L were in breach of the fraud condition. She 
proposed that UKI reinstate the policy and reconsider  the claim. Mr and Mrs L have since  
told us that they have  had difficulty getting insurance because  their names have  been  put on 
a fraud  database.  Though UKI has told us it hasnt  put their names on the Insurance  Fraud 
Register (IFR).
UKI disagreed with our investigators  view and the matter has been  passed to me for 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cancelling a policy for fraud is a serious  matter.  Whether or not their names  appear  on any  
fraud database, Mr and Mrs L would be obliged when applying for insurance  to disclose the 
cancellation of this policy. As Mr and Mrs L have already found out this would be likely  to 
affect any premiums and their being able to get insurance. So we take the view that UKI 
must be able to show us strong evidence that it is most likely that Mr and Mrs L breached the 
fraud condition in the policy.
The evidence UKI relies on is in the phone calls, though unfortunately  theres no recording 
available of the main  call in which the claim was discussed. I think  its likely though that Mr L 
did tell UKI that the fences and the wall were in good condition  before the claim.  But I dont 
Ref: DRN64183202know how the questions  were put to Mr L. I think he didnt  tell UKI about when he contacted  
the contractor or for what reason.
I have listened  to the two phone calls between UKI and the contractor. In the first phone  call 
he merely said he was called by Mr L a few days before the date of the claim.  And he 
referred to work in the garden, not specifying what he was asked to estimate for. In the 
second call he went into more detail.  He said he was contacted by text and referred to 
looking at work in the rear garden  and went on to say and there  was an issue  with the wall. 
UKI has taken that as meaning Mr L asked the contractor to look at an issue  with the wall 
some days  before the wall had (allegedly)  blown  down.  Mr L denies he had told the 
contractor there was an issue with the wall and says he knew the contractor was coming  and 
asked him to estimate for the wall on the day.
Our investigator spoke  to the contractor who said hed received the message via a find a 
trader  type website. He further confirmed he hadnt  been asked about the wall until he 
arrived on the day. As that was a few months after the event  I dont think the contractors  
evidence is very reliable. But given Mr Ls denial and the very short  call with the contractor  
when he wasnt asked  to elaborate on his comment about the wall, I think theres a crucial 
piece of evidence  missing. That is the text, or the message on the website. As Mr L didnt 
speak to the contractor  before the claim this would have shown exactly  what he told the 
contractor. The text/message is no longer available though I see that Mr L offered to get it 
from the contractor at the time. UKI didnt think it necessary to see it.
A further  piece of evidence is missing  the phone call between Mr L and UKI after the first 
notification call. While there are notes of that call, I dont know  exactly  how the questions  
were framed  to Mr L. Its plausible  that Mr and Mrs L were considering having the fence 
replaced even  if it wasnt  suffering from significant damage.
Further Mr L said there was a contractor working at his home who witnessed the damage to 
the wall occurring, but UKI declined to contact him. While I appreciate  this was offered late in 
the day, nevertheless UKI didnt make any attempt to contact him and evaluate  his evidence.
I bear in mind what I said about  strong  evidence and that both the call and the text/message  
would have been available at the time.  I dont think that UKI has put forward sufficiently 
strong evidence for me to find that it was most likely  that Mr L had made what  amounted  to a 
fraudulent claim. For that reason I dont think it was fair for UKI to cancel the policy.  It should  
reinstate it and remove all details of the cancellation  and the fraud from all internal and 
external databases.
I will ask UKI to reconsider  the claim as I think it needs to look at the evidence again. But 
thats not to say that it will decide to pay the claim.  It just needs to look at it in the light of the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I note that Mr and Mrs L have had difficulty in obtaining insurance. If they accept my 
decision, they shouldnt have that difficulty any more. I do think though that Mr L did confuse  
the situation by not telling UKI straight away about  when  he contacted the contractor. And 
that as a result UKI had justifiable concerns about the matter. For that reason I wont  be 
requiring UKI to make  any compensation payment.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to:
Ref: DRN64183203reinstate Mr and Mrs Ls policy and remove all details  of the cancellation  and the fraud 
from all internal and external databases.
reconsider Mr and Mrs Ls claim for damage to their wall/fence subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions  of the policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6418320