K821x#15complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the amount MCE Insurance Company Limited offered to settle his 
motorcycle insurance claim. He would  like the valuation  to be increased  to £5,000.   
background
Mr Os motor-bike  was stolen and not recovered.  MCE  offered  to settle the claim for £2,225,  
which it said reflected the vehicles  market  value based on the available  motor trade guides. 
Mr O didnt agree. He says his motor-bike  cant be replaced with a comparable  one for that 
amount.  
Our investigator agreed that MCEs offer didnt represent fair value in this case. He believed 
the settlement  should be increased to £4,140  (less the excess).  Neither MCE nor Mr O 
accepted that.
The investigator issued  a further view,  in which he maintained an increase in the settlement 
amount should  be made, although  less than the figure first proposed.  This view  took  
account of a valuation obtained from one motor trade guide for a slightly different  model  of 
the bike, as well as Mr Os own assessment of the bikes value when he took the policy  out. 
Mr O did not respond to the further view, and MCE rejected it. So the complaint has come to 
me to decide.   
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied MCE should increase its settlement, and Ill explain why.  
Mr Os policy  is a claim value policy. That means MCEs obligation is to pay the claim value  
of the vehicle immediately prior to the loss. The claim value is the cost of replacing  the 
stolen motor-bike with one of the same make, model, age, type and condition. The policy 
says that is determined by a number of factors, including (but not limited to) valuations  by 
published buyers guides, independent engineers reports, the policy-holders estimate of 
value and service  history.       
I acknowledge that the general  approach used by MCE  in arriving at its valuation of the 
vehicle in this case was broadly consistent with what this service would expect, and what  the 
policy says it may do. MCE looked at the published motor trade (buyers) guides  for relevant 
valuations. MCE says it found one of the guides  no longer valued that type of vehicle, and so 
it used the another guides valuation as the basis for its offer. It also referred to a third guide 
which, MCE says, indicated a markedly lower valuation and which  it opted  not to use.
It transpired that while the first guide  did provide a valuation of a sports  model  of the bike,  
which showed a similar value to the second guide,  it wasnt the same model as Mr Os bike 
and so is not decisive. 
It is, in any case, important to take account of the circumstances and facts of each individual 
matter, and reference to the motor trade guides alone will not always produce a fair 
Ref: DRN66425252settlement. So what  MCE  did was a reasonable starting point in attempting to arrive at a fair 
valuation as at the time of the loss, but I dont believe it was enough.   
Mr Os personal  valuation  of the bike when the policy commenced on 1 April 2018  (as shown 
on the policy schedule  as the present/estimated  value) was £3,000  - more than MCE has 
offered, but less than the £5,000 he is now claiming. It is not clear how he arrived  at his 
estimate at the time, but he says that seasonal  variations apply to the value of sports motor-
cycles, with values  significantly  higher  in summer  and decreasing in winter.  The loss 
occurred in May 2018, and it does appear  the loss month was taken into account for the 
settlement MCE offered,  based  on the relevant date in the second guide. 
But further evidence  available from re-sale websites reasonably suggests that there is a 
limited supply of comparable motor-bikes  (which Mr O calls a rare collectors bike). As well, 
the few examples of those which have been for sale had asking prices significantly higher 
than MCEs offer. 
Of course advertised prices  wont  necessarily  reflect final purchase prices  its to be 
expected that therell to be room for negotiation factored in. But when it comes to vehicles 
which are in relatively short supply (as appears to be the case here), the scope for significant  
price reductions is also likely to be less. On the information available, Im satisfied its 
unlikely Mr O would be able to replace  his motor-bike with a comparable  one for the amount 
offered by MCE.
I think its fair in the circumstances  that the settlement be increased to £3,000 (less the 
excess and any amount already paid).  That represents, in my view, a fair outcome in light of 
the available  relevant  motor trade  guide  valuations, Mr Os own expectation of the bikes 
value when setting  the policy up, and adverts  indicating availability and prices in the market. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  it is my final decision  that I uphold  this complaint. 
MCE Insurance Company Limited  is required  to settle the claim by paying  Mr O £3,000, less 
the applicable excess and any payments already made. Interest should  be added to the 
balance of that amount not previously  paid (at the rate of 8% simple  per annum, calculated 
from the date of the loss to the date of settlement).  
If MCE Insurance  Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN66425253Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Helen Moye
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6642525