K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) declined a claim she 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA) after she took out a fixed  
sum loan with it to pay for a training course  for a third party   Mr P. Mrs K is represented in 
this complaint by Mr P.
background
In October  2018 Mrs K entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni to finance  an 
accounts assistant  training  course for Mr P with a supplier  Ill call G. The cost of the course  
was £500 and Mr P paid a £50 deposit using his credit card, so the amount of credit  was 
£450. 
Mr P said that he had attended a job interview on the day the agreement  was taken out and 
had been told that hed need to complete a training course with G in order to be considered 
for the job. The course had to be paid for and G suggested and then put though  a loan 
application for Mr P to pay for the course.  The application was declined so he brought Mrs K 
in from where she was waiting outside so she could take out the finance in her name.  
Mr P said that when he tried to book a space on the course with G it was always full and he 
couldnt get on it. Mrs K asked Omni  to consider  a claim for breach of contract  under  section  
75 of the CCA. 
Omni turned down  Mrs Ks claim because it didnt  think the necessary  relationship  between  
the debtor,  creditor and supplier was present and therefore it said the requirements for 
making a claim under  section 75 CCA had not been  met. 
Our investigator didnt  think Omni acted unfairly  in turning down Mrs Ks complaint. She said 
the contract  for the training course was between Mr P and G. And because  Mrs K didnt 
have a contract with G, she didnt  think the relationship requirements necessary for a section 
75 claim had been  met. 
Mrs K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide here what, if anything, Omni should do to resolve Mrs Ks complaint. To do 
this, I have to decide what  I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other 
things) any relevant  law. In this case, relevant law includes  section 75 of the CCA. 
Section 75 of the CCA provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against  the credit provider if there  is a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But there are certain criteria that also need to be satisfied, which  includes establishing a 
direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier.
Ref: DRN67669792This means  the person  who paid for the goods  (Mrs K), should have a contractual  
relationship with the company who supplied the goods (G), as well as with the credit  provider 
(Omni). 
Omni says that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship doesnt exist in this case, 
because the credit agreement was between  Omni  and Mrs K but the agreement for the 
training course  was between G and Mr P.
It isnt in dispute here that the training  course was going to be provided  by G to Mr P. Hes 
said he needed to complete the course  to be considered for a job he was applying  for and it 
is clear he is the only applicant on Gs paperwork.  Also, Mrs K has made it clear that her 
only involvement was to pay for the course  because Mr P could not obtain  the necessary  
credit himself. I havent seen anything  that suggests Mrs K entered  into a contract with G for 
the provision of the course. It is clear  however  from the credit agreement that Omni provided 
the finance for Mrs K.  
I think the contract was therefore solely between Mr P and the supplier for the provision of a 
training course  specifically for Mr P. So, while  Mrs K paid for the course, there was no 
contract between her and G and she didnt have the requisite relationship with the supplier. 
As I do not think there  is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  in these circumstances, 
I do not think Omni has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mrs Ks section 75 claim.  
As Mr P paid the deposit  for the course  using his credit card he may be able to pursue a 
claim under section 75 CCA against his credit  card provider and I understand he is exploring 
this option currently.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Michael Ball
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6766979