K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complains  that that Phoenix Life Limited wrongly recommended a life and 
critical illness policy in 1990.
background
Their representative  said the advisor failed to consider  the potential  long term affordability of 
the plan or other more suitable alternatives. He also didnt take into account the risk that 
Mr and Mrs A were  prepared to take with their money.
An investigator at this service didnt  feel the complaint should be upheld. 
He said that it seemed  apparent from the fact find that Mr and Mrs A required cover to 
protect themselves  in the event of a serious illness or death. He also noted that there was no 
other cover in place.  Considering their circumstances and requirements at the time of sale, 
he thought that the policy  was suitable to their needs.
Mr and Mrs As representative disagreed, and said:
There was no discussion of alternatives such as term cover and the advisor did not 
ask how long cover was required for (this is a failure under the regulatory 
requirements)
In addition the clients surrendered the plan which suggests that cover was not 
required on a whole  of life basis
In fact they did not need it after retirement; if it had been important to keep  the cover  
into retirement they would not have cashed it in after 20 years
There was further  discussion about the merits of a term assurance  plan, whether  critical 
illness cover  was generally available within such plans and whether Mr and Mrs A had a 
pension in place  at the time (or whether this was only started at a later date). But the 
investigator still did not feel there was sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that this was an 
unsuitable recommendation
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. The mere  fact that 
Mr and Mrs A surrendered this plan after 20 years does not, in itself, indicate that they were 
not looking for whole  of life cover at the outset.
The Fact Find records that Mr and Mrs As top priorities (in order) were:  protection against 
long term illness, a secure retirement and protection for your family. I accept that such  
documents cannot always be relied  on as a completely accurate reflection of a clients  
wishes; nevertheless  they suggest Mr and Mrs A were looking for protection  running  into 
retirement rather than for a time-limited period.
I therefore do not believe there is sufficient evidence to warrant upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN68929042my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6892904