K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr R says he applied for the PPI through the post  and I think this is likely to be right. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Rs credit application.  On it is a section related to PPI where  the 
box opting for PPI has been ticked. There was also a No box, which  couldve been  ticked 
if Mr R hadnt wanted the policy  I note that this has been  left blank. This was a postal 
sale which suggests Mr R completed and signed  the form in his own time, so I think  its 
likely to reflect what he wanted.  On balance I think its more likely Barclays  made  it clear  
that Mr R didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr R got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong.
Mr R says he wouldve received statutory sick pay. He also says he has some savings, 
and couldve relied on his partner. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if 
he was unable to work  because of accident, sickness  or unemployment.  And having the 
PPI meant he wouldnt have to rely on his partner, whose ability  to help would depend on 
her own circumstances at any given time. The PPI also wouldve allowed him to use his 
savings to cover other necessary  expenses  at what couldve been a difficult time if he 
found himself out of work. Mr R says he was in a secure job at the time the policy  was 
sold, and had only ever been  off sick two days in all his years of working. I dont doubt 
this was the case. However the purpose of insurance  is to protect against the 
unexpected  and circumstances can change. So I still think  the PPI wouldve been 
useful to him. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have  put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Ref: DRN64097302Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R. 
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this so dont 
award any additional compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6409730