K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about advice he was given by PSFM Limited  when arranging  two 
personal pension  plans in 1991. He says the advice failed to take account  of his specific 
intention to retire before the age of 65. He is now considering retirement and finds his 
plan subject to a significant Market Value Adjustment (MVR).
background
I set out the background  to Mr Cs complaint in my provisional decision.  In it, I also 
explained why I was intending  to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill summarise what  I said about 
these points in my provisional decision,  so that the relevant  information  is in this one 
document.
In 1991, Mr C was advised  by PSFM to take out two personal pension plans. The plans  
were provided by two separate providers  and were subject to different terms and conditions. 
This included a pension with Phoenix Life, formerly known as National Provident  Institution  
(NPI), in late 1991. The pension Mr C was advised to take out with Phoenix Life was a With-
Profits policy.
Mr C says he made it very clear  to his PSFM  advisor  that he intended to retire  before the 
age of 65; indeed  his preferred retirement  age was around age 55. At the time of 
receiving the advice, Mr C was 28 years old.
Mr C is now 55 years old and recently requested a transfer value from his pension provider. 
On doing  so, he became aware  a significant  Market  Value Reduction (MVR) would be 
applied if he chose to transfer  his pension at any time before he attained 65 years of age. 
Mr C says had he known  this was the case he would  never  have taken out the plan and 
complained to PSFM in February 2018.
PSFM didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. It stated  the pension had been sold correctly  and 
the terms and conditions of the pension plan state an MVR could be applicable if benefits 
are taken before the age of 65.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service and an adjudicator  then looked  into the merits of 
Mr Cs complaint. He agreed  Mr C required flexibility and the advice recommendations 
stated his pension  benefits could be taken  at age 55. But he also found the terms and 
conditions of the personal pension plan made more than one reference, which  highlighted 
some sort of reduction, would be applicable to Mr Cs policy  before the age of 65 and so he 
didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr C disagreed .He asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought PSFM hadnt acted fairly in advising Mr C 
and what I intended  to ask PSFM to do to put things  right.
The crux of this complaint  lies in whether Mr C was correctly advised  to take out this policy.  
Its important  to note that as the advice was given  in December 1991, almost  28 years ago 
the practices and regulatory requirements were  different to those of today. I am required to 
Ref: DRN66626942take into account relevant law, regulatory requirements, industry guidelines and best 
practice at the time.
I considered the recommendation  letter sent by Mr Cs financial advisor  dated  10 December 
1991. In summary, the letter recommends Mr C take out two personal  pension plans with 
two separate providers.  It says:
..both companies have an impeccable record of high-grade past performance  and offer 
an extremely powerful  combination of competitive charges and contract flexibility.
It goes on to say:
..I enclose illustrations  showing  the possible benefits to which  you could look forward on 
this basis to your attainment of age 55. That age is purely arbitrary  and in fact you will have 
the option of retiring  whenever you choose  at any age from 50 onwards.
and:
you will see reference to the tax free cash potentially available from each policy at 
your attainment age of 55.
One of the pension plans was set up with an intended retirement age of 55. The National 
Provident Life (NPI) pension, now Phoenix  Life had no intended  retirement date at 
inception. Phoenix  Life has confirmed this was because there  was no option  to select  an 
intended retirement date at the time.
Mr C signed the application form for the NPI pension  within  which there  is a 
declaration statement,  which  reads:
 I agree that the pension  date in any pension policy  will be the day before my 75th 
birthday on the understanding that benefits  may commence anytime between  my 50th 
birthday and
the day before my 75th birthday..
There is no mention within the recommendation letter of any potential penalty or 
market value adjustment for one or either  of recommended  pension plans.
Mr C was considered a high earner at the time he took out the pension plans and 
maintains it was always his intention to retire earlier than age 65. On balance, from what 
Ive seen, the recommendation letter clearly indicates Mr C intended to retire around 
attaining 55 years of age. One of the policies was then set up on this basis whilst the NPI 
policy didnt allow a retirement age to be selected.
I considered the NPI policy documents provided at the time. As PSFM have pointed out 
there are a number of references  to the possibility of an adjustment or deduction  if 
benefits are realised or transferred  before  the policy holder attains 65 years of age. The 
Pension Plan Product  particulars, for example, says:
 The value of an investment within the Unitised  With-Profit Account is equal  to the 
number of units (including bonus units). If the benefits are taken before, the age of 65, in 
certain investment  conditions the value will be adjusted.
Ref: DRN66626943and
..If pension benefits  are taken before 65, a deduction will be made..
The Pension Plan Policy  Document represents the terms and conditions of the plan and 
there are a number of clauses within which refer to the impact of retiring  or transferring 
the plan before the age of 65. In summary,  these clauses indicate  the plan may be 
subject to cancellation of units  if the member retires  before the age of 65 and the 
Actuary will determine the value of these.
I think its important to say that although  the supporting documents  reference adjustments
or deductions in certain circumstances  the literature doesnt refer to an MVR.
PSFM also say the annual statements Phoenix  Life sent to Mr C make clear  reference to 
the presence of an MVR on Mr Cs pension plan and show  the monetary difference 
between the fund value and the transfer  value.
Ive considered the annual statements. They show a difference  between  the actual fund 
value and the transfer value at the date of the statement. The annual  statements contain 
the following  wording, which for ease  I have taken from the latest  available statement:
Transfer value-  It is possible  for the current  value of your p l a n  to be paid
into another registered  pension scheme, if the new scheme is willing  to 
accept it.
The transfer  value  s h o w n is what we would  have paid on 31 December  2016, 
allowing  for any applicable  interim  or final bonus, MVR or early  claim charge.
The transfer value  is not guaranteed.
and
The value  shown does not include any allowance  in respect  o f final bonus 
(where  applicable),  or the effect  of any Market  Value Reduction  (MVR) that 
may now apply in the event of a claim.  In the event  of a claim  at a future  date,  
the value will i n c l u d e any final b o n u s (where  applicable)  or MVR applicable  
at that time.
An MVR may  be used  to reduce  the claim  value   of a plan  where  the current  
value  of a plan  is greater  than  the plan' s fair share  of the underlying  
investments.
An MVR generally  applies  on transfers  and switches  out of the With-Profits  Fund  
and/ or Capital Account. They do not normally apply  on death. For retirements,  an 
MVR does not apply in some circumstances and you should ensure you check 
your policy document  for details.
I agree the annual statements show a clear difference between  the fund value and the 
transfer value but that only applies at the date of the statement. It isnt clear that the 
MVR will be applied at any time before the age of 65 on the statements themselves.  I 
agree there  is an assumed retirement  age given  which would be when Mr C attains  
age 65, but Phoenix Life have already confirmed  there  was no option at inception to 
select a retirement  age. The assumed retirement  age would be attaining 65 given the 
Ref: DRN66626944potential penalties but I dont agree Mr C would have known  this or even been  aware  
of this from the statements  themselves.
Whilst I agree with PSFM, that there is evidence within the original documents and the 
annual statements that a deduction or adjustment may apply in certain circumstances, 
there is no mention  of an MVR within the original documents,  as the term wasnt used at 
the time this policy was sold.  What I have to consider is whether the information  within  the 
supporting documents either  was made  clear  or understood  by Mr C and if not would Mr C 
have taken a different  course of action.
I cant be certain of what was discussed  at the time so Im required to look at the evidence  
available. Where the information I have is unclear or contradictory  as some of it is here I 
must reach a conclusion  on a balance of probabilities, that is to say what  I think is more 
likely to have happened.
PSFM say in its final response, whilst the adviser  didnt  expressly  refer to an MVR penalty  
in the recommendation letter, Mr C should  have been aware  due to the number of 
references in the supporting documents. It goes  on to say:
I cannot safely conclude you were  unaware  of the potential of an MVR penalty.  As the 
advice was in 1991 the application of MVAs  from product providers were less common 
than they are today  so there is also the potential that they were discussed and discounted 
due to the rarity of them being applied.  After all the adviser wouldnt have known in 1991  
that an MVA would be applied to your (Mr Cs) pension.
Mr C was 28 years old when  he sought pension-planning advice and he hadnt  invested 
before. He was a high earner, intended to retire early, and required the flexibility  to allow 
him to do so. The advisor had both a duty of care and a regulatory  responsibility to ensure 
Mr C was aware of the entire  risks associated with this pension  plan including any penalty 
that could be applied  should, as Mr C had indicated,  he decided  to take his pension 
benefits before he attained 65 years of age.
From what  Ive seen, I dont agree this pension  plan was suitable for Mr Cs needs  at the 
time he took it out. Im persuaded had there been  a discussion about a possible MVR or 
penalty being applied to this policy before age 65, Mr C wouldnt have taken out the policy  
in the first instance. I dont find it any more reasonable  that the adviser may have 
discussed it and then discounted it due to the rarity of them  being  applied than not 
discussing the potential  presence of an MVR in the future at all.
  Having concluded  PSFM didnt provide Mr C with suitable advice regarding  this pension    
   plan I am now required to consider how to put things right. In assessing what  would be   
  fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr C as close  to the position     
  he would  probably  now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable advice.
  Mr C will be financially disadvantaged  by the imposition of an MVR if he chooses to  
  transfer this pension plan in order to take the early retirement he is seeking.  I think it 
  reasonable then to direct PSFM to wholly reimburse Mr C for any MVR imposed by his 
  pension provider.
In my provisional decision,  I said I intend  to ask PSFM to:
1.  reimburse Mr C any MVR the product provider applies  to the transfer value at 
the time he wants to transfer this pension plan to his Self-Invested  Personal 
Pension (SIPP)
Ref: DRN666269452.  this payment should be paid directly into the plan Mr C intends to transfer to, 
subject to his net relevant  earnings  and any applicable thresholds or protections. If 
it is not possible to pay it into Mr Cs pension plan they should pay it direct  to him. 
Had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would  have provided  a taxable income 
and so any compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax 
that would  have been paid.
3. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement  age.
4. If Mr C is likely to be a basic rate tax payer  at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. But if Mr C would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump  sum,  the notional allowance should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
I invited both parties to make any further  submissions for my consideration before issuing 
my final decision.
Mr C accepted my provisional  findings  and had no further comments to make.
PSFM made a number of further submissions for my consideration. It said:
they dont  dispute  there was no mention of a penalty or MVR in the 
recommendations report but feel the additional  and supporting documents would 
have helped Mr C to understand  the application of a deduction  before the age of 65.
they acknowledge the reference  to the potential  of early retirement but they point out 
there is also a mention  that this is arbitrary.  They point  out one could take the view 
two providers were chosen to allow  for earlier and later retirement  possibilities and 
by diversifying this would reduce the impact where only one company applies an 
MVR. PSFM say they accept this assumption  but present it as an alternative 
likelihood to the view I have taken.
the supporting  literature clearly indicates an adjustment or deduction would be made 
before the age of 65 and asserts other Ombudsman decisions have consistently 
supported this view
the product  information details potential adjustments and deductions and so the 
client should have  been aware  of a penalty  or deduction before attaining 65 years of 
age.
the annual  statements  should  have indicated to Mr C that a penalty would be applied 
if he transferred before  age 65.
they feel as a  Mr Cs occupation  should  have been more financially aware and 
would perhaps  have taken an interest in investments and fund performances  give 
the nature  of his job
they want to make  it clear City Assurance  Consultants Ltd (CAC) gave the advice. 
PSFM acquired the business in May 2009.
they accept some  of the points are based  on assumption but feel the balance  of 
tangible information  in the product literature outweighs the omission of any mention 
of a penalty or adjustment in the recommendation report. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information afresh 
and I thank PSFM for the additional submission, which I have duly considered. Having done 
so I havent been persuaded to change my view and Im going  to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
It is not disputed  that Mr C received advice from City Assurance  Consultants (CAC) in 1991.  
PSFM acquired the firm in May 2009.  As they have  pointed  out PSFM didnt advise Mr C but 
Ref: DRN66626946upon their acquisition of the business,  they assume responsibility for legacy advice given by 
CAC. 
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that he always intended to retire at attaining  55 years  of age. 
He asked for retirement planning advice to this effect and when providing that advice, the 
adviser did not discuss or explain  what an MVR  was or the potential impact,  if applied to Mr 
C, this could have  on his retirement  plans. 
Im of the opinion it was clearly Mr Cs intention to retire early, on or around attaining 55 
years of age. I say this because the recommendation  letter, as one would expect, makes 
more than one reference to Mr Cs intended retirement age. It says:
.my suggestion is you should take out two such (pension)  plans  one with Norwich Union 
and one with National Provident Institution.  Both companies have an impeccable record of 
high grade past performance and offer and extremely powerful combination  of competitive 
charges and contract flexibility.
and
.I enclose  illustrations showing the possible  benefits to which you could look forward  on 
this basis to your attainment at age 55. That age selection is purely  arbitrary  and in fact you 
will have the option  of retiring whenever you choose  from age 50.
and
..you will see reference to the tax free cash potentially available  from each policy at your 
attainment at age 55.
I have noted PSFMs  assertion that the age was only arbitrary  and the adviser could have 
recommended two providers to provide  two different  retirement  age options  but Im afraid I 
dont agree. The basic starting  point for retirement  planning is to look at a clients  retirement 
objectives. That would start with when  a client is looking to retire.  Im satisfied the 
recommendation letter makes reference several times to age 55 because that was 
specifically discussed  and Mr C has been  consistent  in his argument  that he always intended  
to retire early. Even when  taking into account  the reference to the age being  arbitrary, when 
put in the context of the letter it reads as Mr C being  able to retire even earlier, at age 50. 
The letter goes on to say Mr C can potentially take tax-free cash from both policies at age 
55. Mr C has said the adviser recommended two policies from two providers to diversify  his 
pension plans; there is no indication within the letter  of any other  objective.  The NPI policy 
didnt allow the adviser to set a retirement  age but the other recommended  policy did, and 
that was also set to age 55. On balance,  Im persuaded  this was Mr Cs intended retirement  
age and the adviser was clearly aware  that he should have been recommending  policies 
which gave Mr C the flexibility  to retire at age 55 or earlier.  
As I have already  said, I agree  the policy providers documentation explained that an 
adjustment or deduction might be applied  if the pension was taken prior to age 65. In my 
opinion, this information should  have  been  specifically highlighted and discussed  with Mr C 
at the outset. If he still intended to retire at age 55, following such a discussion, then suitable 
advice would have  been to recommend another fund, which  did not have  a penalty at his 
selected retirement age. 
Ref: DRN66626947I acknowledge that the Personal  Pension Plan Policy Document says that if a member  has 
not attained the age of sixty five at the date of cancellation, the value  of any cancelled  units 
in the with-profit  fund will be determined  by the actuary. But, this information is in a generic 
and technical  document;  in the context that the personalised documentation Mr C received 
referred to a retirement  age of 55, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to conclude  that 
this statement and other similar statements alone made Mr C aware of a potential MVR if he 
retired before reaching the age of 65.
Arguably, there a number  of other  stand-alone statements  within the application  form and 
the product information which, when read in conjunction with his personalised 
recommendation could have led Mr C to conclude  these  statements didnt apply  to him. For 
example on the NPI application  form itself,  which Mr C has signed,  paragraph  f reads:
.. for personal contributions and employer contributions I agree that the pension date in any 
pension policy will be the day before my 75th birthday  on the understanding  that benefits may 
commence at any time between my 50th birthday and the day before my 75th birthday..
and in Section  17 (iiii)
.. if the pension date is for any reason on or after the fiftieth  birthday but before the sixty-fifth 
birthday of the member at a time when ten years or more regular contributions  have been  
paidthe deduction  from the value of units allocated to this policy  will be zero.  The 
deduction, however,  may be varied  at the discretion of the Actuary.
Im not persuaded that its reasonable to expect Mr C to have had the knowledge or 
experience to understand the specific provisions contained within  a generic and technical 
document. Im persuaded that would be the responsibility of the adviser he turned to for 
retirement planning advice. If the adviser had discussed any potential  penalty with Mr C at 
the outset, it seems clear  this policy wouldnt have been suitable  if he intended to retire  at 
55. I dont agree he shouldve noticed clauses within the product technical information  that 
would give rise to question if this product  was suitable when he had specifically sought 
professional financial  advice to meet his retirement  planning objectives.
I have revisited the annual statements  but Im still of the opinion  the penalties detailed are 
relevant only to Mr C transferring his pension at the date of the statement. As I said in my 
provisional decision the statement also said:
An MVR generally  applies  on transfers  and switches  out of the With-Profits  Fund  
and/ or Capital Account. They do not normally apply  on death. For retirements,  an 
MVR does not apply in some circumstances and you should ensure you check 
your policy document  for details.
It seems  reasonable then that Mr C wouldnt necessarily have understood the MVR would 
apply when he intended to retire, given  that he understood his retirement planning to have 
been based on him attaining 55 years of age.
PSFM have also suggested as the advice  was given in 1991 when MVR penalties were  rare, 
if applied at all, it may have been  mentioned and discounted by Mr Cs adviser.  But as Ive 
already said, I dont find any evidence from the recommendation letter  that this risk with one 
of the recommended  pensions was discussed. As a result Mr C has found himself with a 
pension from which he cant take his benefits,  when  he intended to, without sustaining a 
significant financial loss.
Ref: DRN66626948I appreciate that some  of the information here is unclear and contradictory. When that is the 
case Im required to reach a decision on the balance of probability, that is to say what I think  
is more likely to have  happened based  upon  the individual merits of the complaint. 
From what  Ive seen, Im not persuaded this pension plan was suitable for Mr Cs needs  at 
the time he took it out. I dont agree Mr C was made aware there could  be a possible MVR 
or penalty applied to this policy before age 65. And, if there had been I dont think, Mr C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy in the first instance and so Im going to ask PSFM to 
compensate Mr C should he suffer a financial loss if he chooses to transfer this pension 
plan in order to take the early retirement  he is seeking. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I direct PSFM Limited  to:
1.  reimburse Mr C any MVR the product provider applies  to the transfer value at 
the time he wants to transfer this pension plan to his Self-Invested  Personal 
Pension (SIPP)
2.  this payment should be paid directly into the plan Mr C intends to transfer to, 
subject to his net relevant  earnings  and any applicable thresholds or protections. If 
it is not possible to pay it into Mr Cs pension plan they should pay it direct  to him. 
Had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would  have provided  a taxable income 
and so any compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax 
that would  have been paid.
3.  the notional  allowance should  be calculated using Mr Cs actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement age.
4.  if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate tax payer at the selected  retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. But if Mr C would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum,  the notional allowance  should  be applied  to 75% 
of the compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6662694