K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002  and 2010.  They  paid a monthly 
amount for the policies.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint because:
For the PPI in 2002, there is limited evidence  available,  which  is understandable given 
how long ago it was. However, I can see the PPI was presented  as being optional, and 
theyd declined it when taking a previous mortgage. So Mr and Mrs C were  aware that 
they had a choice about buying  the PPI, and they chose to take it. 
In 2010, a separate application form was completed specifically for the PPI. So I think 
Lloyds made Mr and Mrs C aware  that they had a choice about buying  the PPI, and they 
chose to take it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C on both occasions,  and it seems to have 
been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time. The PPI 
wouldve met their mortgage repayments for up to a year if theyd made  a successful 
claim. This wouldve left any sick or redundancy pay available for other  things and 
protected their savings.
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even  if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs C would still have bought it. I dont think it was too expensive  and 
the policy was suitable for them. 
Its possible that Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr 
and Mrs C dont appear to have been affected  by any of those things. So I dont think this 
wouldve made any difference  to their decision to take the PPI. 
However, Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because it didnt  tell them,  
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN68368162To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Cs comments. But these points dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6836816