K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that they lost money  when HSBC UK Bank Plc used an unfair 
exchange rate in transferring money  from their account abroad to their UK account.  
background
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs K transferred around 60,000 Canadian dollars  from their account in 
Canada to their HSBC UK account. They say that in advance of the transfer they had 
checked in branch about the exchange  rate HSBC would use and had been assured that the 
bank closely followed the daily spot rate, but that there might  be a small fee. 
The rate HSBC then used  in converting Mr and Mrs Ks dollars to sterling was 1.75917383. 
Mr K complains that this rate was so far our of line with what  was available  on the day that 
he considered  the bank  to have acted more like an off-shore mafia style organisation rather  
than the regulated financial  services  provider that it is. 
Mr K says that in responding  to his complaint HSBC said The HSBC  UK FX rate is derived 
from a live interbank market rate (typically for transactions over USD 2,000,000.00) using the 
mid-rate, which  is the average between  the sell and buy rates,  with our retail margin applied. 
We dont advise customers  what our margins are but they are included within the rate we 
advertise. 
Mr and Mrs K were  dissatisfied with HSBCs response and so they complained  to us.
Our adjudicator noted that HSBCs terms and conditions stated that payments are received 
Immediately after weve converted it into sterling  using  the HSBC  Exchange  Rate (or the 
HSBC Global Transfer Exchange Rate) at the time we receive the payment. The adjudicator 
said that HSBC  had provided evidence of the exchange rate used  on the day of Mr and Mrs 
Ks transfer,  and she was satisfied that the procedures followed  by the bank had been  in line 
with its terms  and conditions.
She commented that although Mr K said that branch staff had told him that the bank would 
apply a straightforward exchange  rate he had not actually  been quoted a rate. And she 
concluded that she thought it reasonable that the bank used its own exchange rate. She also 
said that she was unable to comment on rates other providers might have used.
Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy with the adjudicators view saying, in summary, that HSBC  
had used a rate well above the going rates published on that date for other  UK banks. They  
believed that the bank  had misled them about its exchange rate process and, as a result, it 
had profited unfairly from them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K transferred their money  in Canadian  dollars with the exchange into sterling  
taking place on receipt by HSBC  bank. Inevitably therefore there was always  going to be 
some uncertainty about the rate they would receive.  
Ref: DRN60553762Mr and Mrs K had asked HSBC branch staff about the rate they might  expect before 
deciding to make the transfer. As I wasnt  there I cannot know  the details of that 
conversation, save to say that Mr and Mrs K appear to have been  reassured that HSBC 
would use a rate that was competitive and in line with that available from other banks  at the 
time.
In support of their complaint that the rate actually used by HSBC  was much higher  than it 
should have been Mr K has provided charts demonstrating the rate variation during that day, 
along with figures  showing, amongst other  things, the lowest (1.7199), highest (1.743)  and 
average (1.7314) rates that day. And I agree  with Mr K that the rate used by HSBC was 
higher than these.
But a bank will set its own rates of exchange and, broadly speaking,  the rates are a matter 
for the banks own commercial judgement   there  is no simple test for fairness  or legislation  
dictating that certain margins or limits  be used. A bank may set different rates for different 
types of transaction depending upon its understanding of the risks involved. And a banks 
rates may also reflect its own position  in  or exposure to, a particular currency  at a 
particular time.
It is also not possible for me to know the rate Mr and Mrs K might actually have received if 
they had used a different bank as the data they have provided  doesnt reveal this.
And so although  I understand why Mr and Mrs K are upset about what  has happened here, 
Im afraid I have no basis to find that HSBC has done anything  wrong.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6055376