K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is that Barclay Bank  UK PLC didnt do enough to help him get a refund 
after he was scammed.
background
Mr A saw a computer on an auction  website and contacted the seller who turned out to be a 
scammer. Mr A says the scammer  sent convincing fake e-mails from the auction website 
and that he even telephoned  the auction  website  to make sure he was making the payment 
correctly. He transferred  £1,500 to the scammer  via mobile banking on 29 November 2017.
Mr A realised this was a scam on 6 December 2017 and contacted Barclays the same day. 
Barclays quickly contacted the beneficiary  bank to request a refund, but their response  was 
that only £0.01 remained. Mr A was unhappy  with this and says Barclays  initially told him he 
would get a full refund. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and felt that Barclays  were  correct to follow Mr As 
instruction to make the £1,500 payment, and that it contacted  the beneficiary bank to get a 
refund in a timely manner. Because Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicator, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
Ref: DRN69234352identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr A when he made the payment of £1,500 to a new payee,  or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
Ive thought about the information  available  to me carefully, keeping in mind what Ive 
mentioned above.  Having  looked at the statements for Mr As account, I dont think either the 
type of payment or the amount was particularly suspicious or unusual when compared with 
Mr As normal account activity. I say this because Mr A made card and bill payments for 
similar or higher amounts  on multiple  occasions.  So, I think the fact that Barclays  system 
didnt flag this payment  as suspicious  was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
Mr A says Barclays  didnt do enough to get his money back  once  he notified them of the 
scam. I can understand  Mr As strength of feeling on this matter, especially since  he says 
hes struggled financially  as a result of losing this money. But looking at Barclays actions, I 
think it acted appropriately in trying to recover  Mr As funds  and that it wasnt  required to do 
anything further.  When Mr A made Barclays aware  of the scam,  it contacted  the beneficiary 
bank the same day to request a refund. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to 
say all the funds  bar £0.01  were removed from the account on the same  day Mr A made the 
transfer.
Mr A has been the victim  of a very convincing scam. As unfortunate as this is, I must  
consider the actions of Barclays. Having done so, I think Barclays  was correct to follow      
Mr As instruction to make the £1,500 payment. And I think it quickly took sufficient steps to 
try and recover the funds  once Mr A made it aware of the scam. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN69234353Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6923435