K822xcomplaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) with a store  card. The card 
account was branded  with the name of a well-known  retailer and the credit facility  was 
provided by a high street  bank. 
I previously explained,  in a provisional  decision, that a company called Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  was responsible for answering Mrs Ss complaint. 
I need to point out, however, that the company responsible  had changed again. Its now 
changed to a company called AXA France IARD. 
This doesnt affect the decision or outcome and Ill therefore refer to AXA France IARD 
throughout this final decision.  
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in November 2019,  setting  out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. I asked both parties to provide  any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. That time is now up.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve had a response  from Mrs S who 
agreed with my provisional  decision. However,  I havent seen anything else which  causes 
me to change the findings I set out in my provisional  decision.  
Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Therefore, AXA France  IARD  should  put Mrs S in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  
taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already and AXA 
France IARD should:
Pay Mrs S the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest 8% a year. .
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, AXA France  IARD  can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. AXA France IARD must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss complaint in full. I require AXA France IARD to pay the above 
compensation. 
Ref: DRN68668132Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68668133Summary  Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI)  with a store card. The card account 
was branded  with the name of a well-known retailer and the credit facility was provided  by a high 
street bank. But a company  called Financial Insurance Company Limited is responsible for answering  
Mrs Ss complaint.  
Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
Our adjudicator has assessed  this complaint and provided a view that it shouldnt  be upheld. Mrs S 
disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, Im considering upholding  Mrs Ss complaint.
Weve seen  a large number of FICL  complaints  that are quite similar  to this one. Consequently, we 
have a good  understanding of the processes and documents  that were normally used  and this has 
helped us to develop a general approach to many of the cases  that we see. Our adjudicator  used this 
knowledge properly to help in coming to a view about what might have happened.
But I see some significant features in this case which  lead me to think differently about  the sale of this 
PPI. We know, for example, that Mrs Ss store card was taken  out in the shop in 1994.  However I see 
that the PPI wasnt added until almost  7 years later,  in 2001.
So I think the strong likelihood here is that when Mrs S was asked about  PPI on her application  form,  
she specifically ticked no or otherwise made clear she didnt want it. I also think the fact that she 
operated her card account  for so long without the need for PPI is good  evidence that PPI wasnt 
something she wanted to have.
FICL says the PPI sale came about during a phone call but it doesnt have any recording  or indeed 
any other evidence that shows me if or why Mrs S changed her mind.
We know from experience  that although the FICL operators were told to follow a telephone sales 
script, consumers werent always told everything they should have been. I note Mrs Ss account then 
had PPI added around the time of the call, but her account  was closed down completely  very soon  
after, in July 2001.
I think  this all represents  strong evidence  that Mrs S never wanted PPI. I dont  see why she would 
operate her card without  it for 7 years and then suddenly  add it on  only to then very quickly close 
her account.  I think its much more likely  FICL added the PPI, probably after some sort of call but 
without being clear enough  or obtaining her full consent. I think thats the most  likely reason she then 
decided to close the card account shortly after she realised  PPI had been added.
I dont have to go in to much  more detail than this. Weve got good evidence  Mrs S never consented  
to PPI at the time of her card application.  FICL  cant show  me anything that clearly demonstrates it 
got her consent to add it later. And the circumstances show its very likely she didnt  ever want  PPI.
Ref: DRN68668134my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am considering upholding Mrs Ss complaint and directing Financial 
Insurance Company  Limited to pay compensation.
I will consider any more information or submissions I get before 1 December  2019. After  that Ill issue 
a final decision.
Ref: DRN6866813