K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy sold in 
1995.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
this sale. So to keep  things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring  to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mr G says FICL mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint.
Mr G disagreed with these findings,  so this case has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why. 
I think its likely FICL  made it clear Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand why he cant  remember this 23 years later. I say this 
because from what we know about how these were sold over the telephone  at that time the 
business was most  likely to have  gained his agreement and to have made  the optional 
nature of the policy clear. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure he got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
The information FICL gave Mr G about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time it seems  he was 
eligible for the cover the policy provided and doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been  useful for him if something 
went wrong. 
And it appears that Mr G wouldve benefitted from the cover.  I say this because whilst  Mr G 
told us his initial sick pay was good, it dropped significantly after six months, such  that Mr G 
may have  had to rely on his parents paying off his card. And as he only had a small amount 
in savings at the time, I think the PPI wouldve been  of benefit to him. I say this because  
having the PPI would mean the policy wouldve  paid out for longer than his employer would 
have paid him at his full rate of pay, and he could have kept his savings to use for other 
expenses rather than having to use them to repay the store card.  So I think  the PPI could  
have been useful for him.
Ref: DRN66986442So having  considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would  have 
put Mr G off taking out the cover.
So for the reasons explained  above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold to Mr G. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6698644