K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy because he says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a travel  insurance 
policy. 
background
In November 2018 Mr B took out a travel insurance  policy online.  It was an add on to his 
packaged bank  account. 
Mr B wanted  cover  for himself and his partner. Barclays  sent an annual eligibility statement 
to Mr B in February 2019 which reminded him to review the policy. Mr B contacted Barclays  
around the same time to say he was travelling soon and had wanted to check his partner 
was covered. He got in touch with the underwriter whod explained hed need  to be able to 
prove his partner was living with him.  
Mr B is unhappy with this because he says, in summary, they both live with his parents, so 
all the bills are in his parents  name.  Mr B says his partner is registered  at her parents 
address. Mr B says he was mis-sold  the policy - he wants  a refund of his premiums and 
compensation. 
Barclays issued a final response letter saying as part of the sales process  he was asked to 
check and agree to each  section of the application.  They also explained  hed been  sent the 
policy documentation  after the sale, saying that there was a 14 day cooling off period. 
Barclays also had no record of Mr B phoning to check his partner would be covered  during 
that time.  In further correspondence  they also explained that, whilst Mr B had outstanding 
concerns about  the wording of the policy, his further  points  didnt  change  their thoughts 
about the actual sale of the policy. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think 
the policy had been mis-sold as she was satisfied  that Mr B had been made aware of the 
relevant terms and had enough information to make  an informed decision. Mr B didnt agree 
and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The policy terms highlight some common questions including Who  is covered by this 
policy? It says: 
Cover is for any named account  holder and their domestic partner living at the same 
address (providing you are both under 80 years of age at the start date of the trip).
Ref: DRN67468632Domestic partner isnt defined,  but partner is. Its defined as:
The person  that the account holder lives with at home in a domestic  relationship, 
whether married or cohabiting  (as if husband  and wife), regardless of gender,  who is 
under 80 years old at the start of the trip.
Home is defined as: 
Your home address in the UK
In the policy  document, any reference to you is defined as referring to:
The account  holder,  his/her partner (providing you are both under 80 years of age at 
the start date of your trip) and their dependent children who at the start date of the 
trip are under 18 years  of age (under 23 years of age if still in full time education  and 
living at home outside of term time).
was the policy mis-sold?
Mr B took out this policy online  and didnt get advice from Barclays. Under the relevant rules 
and industry guidelines this means  Barclays didnt need to make sure that the policy  was 
right for Mr B. However, it did need to give Mr B enough information  to decide if the policy  
was right for him. Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint because: 
This issue  came to light because Mr B checked  with the underwriter what  information 
hed need to provide if he made  a claim.  Mr B says he was told hed need to have his 
partner registered  at his house. Barclays said in the event of a claim Mr B would 
have needed proof that she is living at the same address, as explained in the Terms 
and Conditions of the policy
I think this information  is set out in the policy terms. I say that because the terms 
explain that in order to be covered Mr Bs partner  would have needed to meet the 
definition of partner  and live with Mr B at his home  address in the UK
Mr Bs partner  was living with him at his home address in the UK. She was under the 
age of 80 and they were co-habiting in a domestic relationship.  So it seems most 
likely to me she fell within the definition Ive set out above
I think the real issue in this case is how Mr Bs partner  would  have evidenced this in 
the event she needed to claim.  I can understand why Mr B was upset to be told by 
the underwriter he wouldnt be covered  unless  he could provide proof his partner 
lived with him. But my role is to consider what did happen rather  than what might 
have happened
Mr B and his partner didnt need to make a claim and therefore this wasnt an issue 
for them during  the time they were covered by the policy. Up until the point of 
cancellation Mr B and his partner had the benefit  of cover. The upgrade also included  
other benefits which Mr B wouldve  been  able to take advantage of. Bearing in mind 
all the circumstances  I dont  think its fair that the premiums are refunded in this case  
and I understand  the policy has now been  cancelled 
Ref: DRN67468633If Mr Bs partner  had made  a claim,  Id have expected the underwriter to handle the 
claim fairly  and decide whether  Mr B had provided  reasonable evidence  to 
demonstrate his partner was living at his home  address. Barclays  told us that should  
a claim have arisen, and as would be a reasonable requirement, Mr B would be 
required to show proof that his partner did live with him, for example, in the form of a 
utility bill dated within the last three months. I note that this is an example, rather  than 
a definitive list 
Even if Mr Bs partner hadnt  ultimately  been  covered by the policy  I still wouldnt 
uphold this complaint as I think Barclays  gave  Mr B enough information to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
I can see the full policy documentation was sent to Mr B after the sale. It explained 
who was covered by the policy and set out the definitions of partner and home. So I 
think this information was reasonably drawn to Mr Bs attention in this documentation  
and that he was in a position to make  an informed choice about the policy
I also note there  was a 14 day cooling off period  and Mr B was invited to contact 
Barclays with any questions. If Mr B was still unsure about the level of cover then I 
think it was his responsibility to contact  Barclays  or the underwriter to check during 
the cooling off period.  Ive seen no clear evidence that Mr B did so
More recently Mr B has raised some concerns about the cancellation  of the policy.  As 
I understand it hes not yet made  a complaint to Barclays  about this hed need to 
contact Barclays first to make a complaint.  
my final decision
Im not holding Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6746863