K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about his mortgage with Swift 1st Limited. Hes unhappy about:
-the sale of the mortgage;
-the interest rate on the mortgage;
-the mortgage balance, and fees and charges that have been applied to it.
background
Mr S applied for the mortgage through a packager  in 2007. The mortgage  for £37,000 plus 
fees  completed  in early 2008.  It was for a term of 25 years, payable on a capital and 
interest repayment basis, on a discounted interest rate for the first year. 
Mr S complained to Swift a number  of times  over the years about the matters  Ive briefly 
summarised above. In 2016, he stopped making  payments to the mortgage. He did this, he 
said, because of the fraudulent accounting  methods he thought Swift was using, and 
because he thought the mortgage contract should  be treated as null and void.
Swift didnt  think it had done  anything wrong. Mr S would  like his mortgage to be treated as 
having been repaid  in full, Swifts charge removed from his property, and compensation.
Our investigators view was that Swift  shouldnt have  granted the mortgage  in the first place,  
because Mr S couldnt afford it. He said there  were some red flags in the mortgage  
application and associated documents which should  have alerted Swift to a problem with 
affordability and it should  have asked  more questions. He initially  recommended that Swift  
accept payment of just the amount Mr S had initially borrowed, in settlement of the mortgage 
and the complaint  which would mean Mr S had just over £500 left to pay. 
Mr S accepted that, but Swift did not. It set out why it thought  it had done  enough  to check  
Mr S could afford to repay the mortgage,  and provided more documents  from the time of the 
sale. It also said most of the new mortgage  money  had been used to repay  an existing 
mortgage which Mr S had had with another lender.  It said that, like Swift, that other  lender 
wasnt a high-street  mainstream lender and would have  charged similar interest  rates as it 
had  and the previous mortgage and the interest  payable on it would have remained in 
place had it not granted the mortgage at issue here.
Swift then said that, while it didnt  agree  with the investigators finding that its decision to 
lend had been irresponsible, it wouldnt contest that conclusion.  In order  to settle the matter,  
it made the following offer:
-to restructure Mr Ss mortgage to reflect initial borrowing of £28,196.68  that is, the 
amount that refinanced Mr Ss previous  mortgage;
-in restructuring the mortgage in this way, the set-up fees for the mortgage would be 
removed, as would the cash Mr S received  (just under £7,000) and the money  that 
repaid a second charge on the property (£1,944.60);
-this would leave  a balance of £13,133.95 owing  rather than the current £65,792.48;
-it would  apply interest to this reduced  balance at a reduced rate of 7.2%  a year;
Ref: DRN63984832-it would  agree an affordable repayment  plan with Mr S, taking into account his household  
income and outgoings.
On review, our investigator  thought  this was fair. He said he took that view because,  as far 
as possible, Swifts offer returned Mr S to the position he would have been in had he not 
taken out the Swift mortgage  his previous mortgage would have remained in place and 
needed repaying, with interest. He also said he no longer thought  his original  
recommendation represented a fair outcome because that had been  made  on the 
understanding that Mr S didnt have an existing  mortgage when he took out the Swift 
mortgage.
Mr S wasnt  prepared to accept that. He said he had accepted the investigators  original  
recommendation and made arrangements on that basis. He also said Swift  was lying about  
a previous mortgage and wouldnt be able to prove hed had such a mortgage, he had never 
heard of the previous lender, and he had never  owed anyone  the amount Swift  had set out. 
Swift said its offer of settlement was no longer open as the matter couldnt  be settled 
informally. It also said Mr Ss integrity and credibility  was a concern  here and it felt there 
wasnt enough evidence  to conclude it had lent irresponsibly. 
my findings
First of all, I note that another ombudsman has issued decisions setting out our power to 
look into this complaint in the light of rules we have to follow about time limits. He concluded  
that we can consider all the matters Mr S has complained about and, for the avoidance of 
any doubt, I agree.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I realise both 
parties are likely to be disappointed,  Ive concluded  that the offer Swift made  is the fairest 
way to settle this complaint  even  though  it has said it is no longer prepared  to make  that 
offer. 
Ill deal with Mr Ss three heads of complaint in turn.
the sale of the mortgage
Mr S says Swift mis-sold him his mortgage  because the monthly mortgage payments  took up 
half of his modest income, and he struggled  to maintain them  over the years. He was 70 
when he took out the mortgage, and it was set up to run for 25 years   so he will be in his 
nineties at the end of the term.  He believes  he has been exploited. 
Rules and regulations about  mortgage  lending have changed a great deal since Mr S took 
out this mortgage.  In making my decision,  I have to take account  of regulation as it was in 
late 2007 / early 2008, alongside good  industry practice at that time.
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business sourcebook  (MCOB) in the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook set out the obligation on lenders to lend responsibly 
and, at MCOB 11.2.1(G), to take account  of prospective borrowers ability  to repay  before 
lending to them. 
Ref: DRN63984833Mr Ss mortgage application was made  through a packager. The documents from the time 
say the sale was on a non-advised basis. The application said Mr S was re-mortgaging his 
existing property, he was divorced and living alone,  and his income  consisted  of state 
pension and a bursary, totalling £21,576 a year (so £1,798 a month). His outgoings were 
given as £235 each month. These  outgoings  were stated to include payments to any other 
debts which  werent  being  repaid from the new mortgage, utility bills, food,  clothes, council 
tax, and any other regular  household outgoings.
Swifts records  show it decided not to include  Mr Ss bursary income when it assessed his 
application  and Mr S has since said he in fact stopped receiving money from the bursary  
around the same time. So Swift agreed  the mortgage based  on Mr Ss pension income, 
which was stated on the application to be £13,512  a year (so £1,126 a month). It says this 
was more than enough to meet the monthly mortgage payments, and it checked Mr Ss bank 
statements to confirm  his income. 
The mortgage was on a discounted interest  rate for the first year,  with monthly  payments  of 
£355.61. After  that, assuming no change in Swifts  variable interest rate, the payments were  
£411.65.
So, Mr Ss monthly income more  than covered the mortgage payments and left him with just 
over £700  a month for other expenditure. The level of that other  expenditure, though, is 
important  it doesnt necessarily follow that a certain level of income  will make a particular 
mortgage affordable.  In assessing a borrowers  ability to repay, I would expect a lender to 
take account of their expenditure.
Swift says it looked at guideline figures  for expenditure issued by the Money Advice  Trust 
(MAT) which, at the time, said a single person could expect to have outgoings of £542  a 
month. Swifts records  from the time reflect its having considered MAT guidelines.  It has 
since told us it used  its own modelling based  on debt to income ratios,  and used a monthly 
expenditure figure of £675.66 for Mr S in order to underwrite his application. 
On these figures, I agree the mortgage appears to have been  affordable.  However, I think it 
should have been clear  to Swift  that Mr Ss outgoings came to considerably more than £675 
a month. It had asked  for, and received, copies of Mr Ss bank statements in order to verify 
his income. As well as confirming his pension income, they show a monthly direct debit 
payment to another lender of £316.45, as well as that Mr S was making transfers  into his 
bank account  to top it up. 
Our investigator made  some enquiries  and found that these  direct  debit payments were for 
another loan which  wasnt  repaid by way of the Swift mortgage.  Mr S continued  to make the 
loan payments after taking out the mortgage  until 2011, when the loan, together  with Mr 
Ss current account, moved  to the banks collections department.  
These loan payments accounted for almost half of the money  Swift had assumed Mr S 
would have for other bills and living  expenses.  So its calculation   on its own policy and 
modelling at the time, and the basis on which the application was underwritten and approved 
 was wrong. In this case it had information in the form of Mr Ss bank statements which 
showed Mr S was paying other borrowing, that Mr Ss monthly outgoings  were  consistently 
far more than £675 a month, and which I think should reasonably have  led it to make  more 
enquiries instead of relying on assumptions. It should have realised at the outset that Mr S 
wasnt going to be able to afford this mortgage.
Ref: DRN63984834I have noted what  Swift  has said about Mr Ss credibility, and that some  of what  Mr S has 
said isnt reflected in the available documents. The key issue here, though, is Swifts 
decision to lend to Mr S based  on his circumstances as they were in 2007/2008   and as 
Swift knew or ought reasonably to have known them to be at that time.  The available 
documents include enough  information  about those,  without  the need  for Mr Ss 
recollections.
Mr S should,  of course, have declared the loan on his application. Its not clear  why he didnt 
do so or whether there  might, for example, have been some information lost in 
communication with the third-party packager. I note, however, that no other debts  at all were 
mentioned on the original  application  so the secured loans which were  repaid by way of 
the Swift  mortgage  werent listed either. 
I dont consider that Mr Ss age or the fact that he was only receiving pension income were 
reasons of themselves for Swift  not to have lent. But I consider the other information Swift 
had available  to it should have led it to decline  the application. 
Swift says Mr S has never told it he was in financial difficulty and, until 2016  when  Mr S 
decided to stop paying the mortgage, he had never  been in arrears by more  than a month  
so he could afford the mortgage. 
It may well be the case that Mr S didnt tell Swift he was struggling  but I dont think  it 
necessarily follows that he wasnt. While  he wasnt in significant mortgage arrears,  he was 
behind with his mortgage payments for months  at a time at some points. And Mr S has told 
us that he was prioritising the mortgage  payments  above everything else,  and this is how he 
was able to maintain them  for the most part  over the years.  I note as well that Swifts  
records include requests  from Mr S as early  as 2009 to switch  to paying the mortgage on an 
interest-only basis, requests for a lower interest  rate, and numerous notes about ground  rent 
and service charge  arrears (which the local council took court  action to recover  and which 
came to more than £6,000 by March 2016). 
As I said earlier,  another lender has told us that Mr Ss current account and loan went into 
collections in 2011. And Mr S has told us he has had to use a local food bank on a regular 
basis. 
All of this satisfies me that Mr S struggled  to keep up with the mortgage  payments, at the 
expense of other commitments and day-to-day expenses. Taking  careful account of all the 
circumstances, and my earlier conclusion about Swifts decision to lend, I think  the fair 
outcome here is for Mr S to be put back in the position he would have been in  so far as is 
possible  had he not taken out the mortgage with Swift. 
putting things  right
In deciding a fair way to put things  right,  I must  take account of all the circumstances of this 
case. I cant fairly say that Swift should write off the whole remaining mortgage balance  
simply because Mr S doesnt feel he should  have to pay any more. I also cant fairly  say 
Swift need do nothing  to put things right because of the concerns it has about Mr Ss 
integrity.
As the investigator  explained, returning Mr S to the position he would have been in had this 
mortgage not been taken  out isnt straightforward.  This is partly because  of a lack of detail 
about some  aspects of Mr Ss financial situation in 2008.  
Ref: DRN63984835Mr S says he didnt have a mortgage in 2007,  and most of the Swift mortgage was to pay his 
childrens university fees. Documents from 2007  and 2008 dont support that. They include 
the mortgage completion statement,  which would  have  been sent to Mr S in January 2008. 
Our investigator sent Mr S a copy of it.
The completion statement  shows how the mortgage proceeds were distributed,  as follows:
-£1,995 broker  fee
-£28,196.68 to repay  first mortgage  
-£1,944.60  to repay second mortgage  
-£650 loan administration  fee
-£135 title indemnity  fee
-£6,858.72  payable to Mr S.
The amount  Mr S received is also reflected on his bank statement from 2008. 
I share  the investigators  view that the evidence  shows the previous mortgage existed and 
was repaid by way of the Swift mortgage.  I also think that, had it not existed and had Mr S 
been expecting  to receive all of the money  from the Swift mortgage in 2008,  he is likely to 
have asked at the time where the missing £30,000  had gone.
Had Swift not granted the mortgage, Mr S would still have  owed the two secured  debts  set 
out above, and paid interest  on the first charge at least. What rate that would have been  at 
and over what remaining  term is unknown.  
I have also to bear in mind that Mr S struggled for a number of years to keep up with the 
payments on the Swift mortgage, at the expense of maintaining payments to other  
commitments, including basic day-to-day living expenses such  as food,  and this led to court  
action against  him on at least  one other  commitment. I think all of this will have been difficult  
and stressful, particularly  given Mr Ss age and health  he is now in his mid-eighties with a 
number of health problems. Besides that, there  is no evidence  that he gained  any real 
benefit from the cash he received from the mortgage  against  this background, its likely to 
have been spent on day-to-day living expenses as he struggled with his other  outgoings.
Putting things right isnt always an exact  science, and its simply not possible to be precise in 
this case. Im satisfied  that a broad-brush approach to compensation is fair here and, in all 
the circumstances, taking account of the limited  information we have about Mr Ss previous 
mortgage and the impact  of Swifts  lending  decision on Mr S, I consider the offer Swift made 
and later withdrew represents a fair and reasonable outcome. It unwinds the mortgage  to a 
reasonable extent,  including  refunding the set-up  fees, and includes some debt forgiveness 
which I think fairly compensates Mr S. 
While Swift  has set its interest rate in the light of its costs and risks as I consider below, I 
have to reach an outcome thats  fair to Mr S as well  bearing in mind his ability  to repay  the 
loan. Overall, I think that reducing,  rather than removing, interest on the remaining debt 
strikes a fair balance.
I have noted of course that Swift has withdrawn its offer. It will nevertheless  have to settle  
the complaint  in this way if Mr S accepts this final decision. If Mr S does  accept my decision, 
I would encourage  him to engage with Swift  to agree an affordable  repayment  plan and 
thereby avoid additional charges and recovery  action.
Ref: DRN63984836the interest rate
Mr S says the interest  rate Swift  has applied from the start has been arbitrary and 
extortionate, and more like a commercial rate than one a residential mortgage customer  
might expect to pay.
Swift says it isnt and never has been  a mainstream  lender.  It lent to borrowers with a higher 
risk profile than would  generally be acceptable to the average high-street lender  and its 
pricing reflects that increased risk. It also says Mr S didnt  have  a prime credit history  and his 
property wouldnt have  been acceptable security  for most lenders because of its construction 
and the floor its on in a block  of flats. Ive seen  a copy of the 2007 valuation report, which 
says the property wouldnt have been acceptable to most lenders. 
The mortgage offer and terms and conditions included in it say the rate on Mr Ss mortgage  
is variable and set out the circumstances in which Swift is entitled to change  the rate.
Im satisfied that the rate was clear in the documents. The 2007 offer says the interest rate 
is: A variable  rate of 11.79% with a discount of 2.00% which  will apply for 12 months  giving 
a current rate payable  of 9.79%.  At section  6, it says:
The interest rates are variable.
We are entitled to change  the rate of interest  we charge you. Any change  in the interest rate 
will not take effect until after we have given  you at least 14 days  written notice of the change. 
Further information is set out in clause  J of the General  Terms and Conditions of this offer 
document.
Clause J of the General Terms and Conditions  of the offer says:
We have the power to change the rate of interest  we charge under this agreement  to reflect  
a change in the cost of our funds. We may use that power by giving you at least 14 days  
notice in writing by first-class post.  The change  will apply from the date shown in the notice, 
which will also tell you why the cost of our funds has changed.
Following the expiry of the initial one-year discounted rate, the rate on Mr Ss mortgage 
remained at 11.79%  until May 2020  when Swift  says it reduced the rate across its 
mortgage portfolio  to 11.44% as a goodwill gesture to borrowers in the light of the impact of 
Covid-19.
I can understand why Mr S thinks the rate is high  particularly  when compared to indices 
such as Bank of England base rate. But Swifts variable  rate was never linked to an external 
index, and base  rate is just one factor that can affect a lenders costs.  The rate Mr S was 
signing up to was clear  in the offer.
Under the terms of Mr Ss mortgage, Swift could change the interest rate, but only for the 
specific reason set out in those terms: to reflect a change in the cost of [its] funds. So we 
have asked Swift about its funding costs over the years since Mr S took out his mortgage.
Swift says its costs of funding increased substantially over the years  of Mr Ss mortgage, but 
it chose not to pass those higher costs on to its customers. The relevant costs are those of 
funding its portfolio as a whole  not Mr Ss mortgage alone.  It reviews its funding costs  
every six months and has provided   in confidence  copies  of those reviews to us. 
Ref: DRN63984837Having carefully considered the information Swift  has about its reviews  and the costs  of its 
funding, I dont find that it has been  unreasonable or unfair in not reducing the interest rate it 
charged Mr S. The rate wasnt a tracker and Swifts funding costs rose rather than fell.
I also note that no early repayment charges  applied  to Mr Ss mortgage after the first four 
years. So, had Mr S been in a position to get a better deal or a different type of mortgage 
after that period,  he wouldnt have been required to pay an early  repayment charge to Swift 
to do so. 
Finally on this point, nothing Mr S has said leads  me to conclude that Swift has done 
anything wrong  in terms of the way it has applied interest to his mortgage  account. Its 
neither unreasonable nor unusual for interest to be calculated on a mortgage  on a daily 
basis, and that Swift  would do so on Mr Ss mortgage was set out clearly in the mortgage 
terms.
the mortgage balance, fees and charges
By April 2016, Mr S says he had paid Swift more than £40,000 towards this mortgage,  but 
the redemption  figure  he asked  for said he owed more than he had originally borrowed. He 
didnt think this could  possibly be right, and said Swifts accounting practices are fraudulent.
Most of Mr Ss monthly payments in the early years of the mortgage went to repay the 
mortgage interest rather than the capital  I find nothing unusual  or inappropriate in that. As 
the investigator explained, Mr Ss balance increased because  he didnt make all the monthly 
mortgage payments  on time, and that resulted in additional interest and charges  being 
added to the balance. Besides that, the original £37,000 plus fees which Mr S borrowed 
didnt include any interest. He would always have been expected to pay back much more  
than that over the term of the mortgage; the offer he accepted  said that, over the term and 
assuming all payments  were made  on time and no change to the interest rate, he would 
need to repay £122,822.52.
Swift set out in the annual  statements it sent to Mr S how much  he would need to increase 
his monthly payments by and how to go about doing  so, in order  to repay the mortgage  by 
the end of the term. It has sent separate letters about this as well, and responded to a 
number of queries  from Mr S about  the balance over the years.  
Nothing Mr S has said leads me to conclude that Swift has inflated  his mortgage balance  
because of mistakes or fraudulent accounting.  
Mr S is unhappy with the fees and charges that were added  to his mortgage when he took it 
out. Those  fees and charges were set out in the mortgage documents. In any event, they will 
be refunded if Mr S accepts my decision as his mortgage will be re-worked without them   
as will various later arrears fees.  So I need make no further findings about the fees and 
charges. 
I agree  with Mr S that Swift cant simply change its tariff of charges whenever it wants. The 
charges it applies  for dealing with accounts  in arrears should be a reasonable reflection of its 
costs. It can, however,  alter its charges when those costs change,  provided  it gives 
borrowers appropriate notice.
Ref: DRN63984838my final decision
My final decision is that, in settlement of this complaint,  Swift  1st Limited must:
-restructure Mr Ss mortgage to reflect a current balance of £13,133.95;
-adjust the interest rate on the mortgage  to 7.2%  a year;  and
-contact Mr S to discuss his financial situation with a view to coming to an affordable 
repayment plan with him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6398483