K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc refused to let her reject  a car which it 
had funded by means  of a conditional sale agreement.
background
In December 2017 Miss S acquired a second  hand  car at a cost of £57,995 with a mileage of 
some 6,600.  Miss S paid £13,000 and the balance was provided by Santander. In March  
2018 Miss S reported the car had several faults. She reported  these to Santander and they 
were repaired  by the dealer under warranty.
She later complained  that the roof leaked. For its part Santander terminated  the agreement. 
It said that it had evidence that the car was being sub-let and this breached  the agreement. 
Miss S brought her complaint to this service and it was referred to Santander to allow it to 
respond. It issued final response letter rejecting the complaint and the matter  was 
considered by one of our investigators. 
He noted that when  agent for Santander  tried to recover the car they were  told by Miss S 
that she didnt  know where it was. It was later found  at a main  dealer where it had been  left 
for repairs. The investigator was satisfied  that Miss S knew where the car was and could 
have let Santander know. He also noted  that Miss S said the car had been regularly used by 
her brother and father and so he thought she had breached the terms of the agreement by 
not keeping the car in her control and possession.
He noted the main  dealer  had provided conflicting information about  the whereabouts of the 
car. It seemed that not all the staff had access to the relevant  information and so it hadnt 
told Santander that it had the car. 
Miss S didnt agree and said she had encountered  a number of problems with the car 
including a steering issue and so she didnt feel safe driving it. She said Santander told her 
that the issue had been  fixed  and she had collected the car and this meant she had 
accepted it was satisfactory. She also disputed that the car had been sub-let and suggested 
the information had come from a jealous family  member. She said her brother and father had 
driven it, but she didnt  believe that broke  the terms and conditions of the agreement. Indeed 
she had told the dealer  her brother might be allowed to drive  the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Santander is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
Ref: DRN66445112The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I appreciate Miss S says she has encountered a number  of issues with the car and in turn 
Santander says these have been resolved  by the dealer.  However, I consider the key issue  
is whether Miss S broke the terms of the agreement by letting the car be used for hire.
I sought clarification from Santander about this issue and it has confirmed that it received 
information the car was being hired  out. It then carried  out research and found the car was 
being offered  for hire on three different social media  sites. It has provided screenshots  of the 
car being available for hire. The agreement states that the car may not be rented out. I 
believe the original  information and Santanders  subsequent investigations were reasonable 
grounds to conclude the terms  of the agreement  had been broken. 
As for the issues with the car I am not persuaded that these  amounted to sufficient to allow  
Miss S to reject the car. I can see that repairs were  carried out and I seen nothing  that 
shows these werent  satisfactory. I also find it strange for Miss S to have forgotten  where the 
car was when she was asked by Santanders  agents. And it seems  odd for her to have left it 
with the garage  for such a long period when she was paying for it. The whole situation 
seems  unusual, but I cannot  safely conclude that Santander has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept  or reject my decision before 
24 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6644511