K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained because  Ageas Insurance Limited declined his claim for loss of rent 
following a fire at a property he rented  out.
background
Mr S owns  a property that he rents out. As I understand  it he bought  the property in 2007  
and its been rented out pretty much continually since then. The last tenant had been in the 
property since at least 2011 until she was evicted in October 2015.
Mr S bought insurance  for the property with Ageas shortly after the tenant was evicted. The 
property wasnt rented at the time as Mr S planned  on doing  some renovations  before  
renting it out again. About  a month after the policy started there  was a fire at the property. 
Mr S made a claim for the damage caused but the claim  was declined by Ageas.
A complaint about Ageass decision was referred  to us and one of my colleagues issued a 
final decision  in December 2017. In summary,  she decided  that Ageass decision was unfair 
and that it should consider Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining terms of his policy.  
Ageas did that, and in November 2018 it settled the claim  for the damage caused  by the fire 
by paying Mr S a cash amount for the repairs needed. But Ageas declined  to pay Mr Ss 
claim for lost rent. It said there  was no tenancy  in place when the fire occurred so Mr S 
hadnt lost any rent due to the fire. Mr S accepts that the property was unoccupied prior to 
the fire. But he says were  it not for the fire the property would have been tenanted from 
around December  2015 once the renovations had been done.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  he agreed with Mr S 
that had the fire not occurred it was likely the property would have been tenanted. So he felt 
Mr S had suffered  a loss of rental income.  Mr S accepted our investigators opinion.  But the 
complaint has been passed to me to review because we didnt hear anything further from 
Ageas.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy  covers  him for loss of rent if the property is damage by fire and cant  be lived 
in. Specifically, the policy says that Ageas will pay for loss of rent due to Mr S which  he is 
unable to recover.
I think theres an argument that the words rent due implies that there must be some  sort of 
contract in place whereby Mr S is due to receive rental income  from a tenant. And using  that 
argument, it could  be argued that Ageas has adhered to the terms of the policy. However, in 
deciding a complaint Im able to look beyond the strict legal interpretation of a policy   if 
indeed what Ive said above is a valid argument  to what  I consider  to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. And, for the reasons below, I dont think  its fair in this 
case to interpret the policy so narrowly.
This isnt a case where someone has just bought or inherited a home  and has decided to 
rent it; or where someone has sporadically  rented a property over several years.  Ive seen 
Ref: DRN69667102evidence which shows that the property had been rented to a tenant for nearly five 
continuous years. So I think  its most likely that had the fire not occurred Mr S would have  
rented the property  to another tenant shortly  after hed finished the renovations.  I therefore 
think it fair in this case to work on the basis  that Mr S lost rent from future  tenants  because of 
the fire.
Of course,  it will never be known when a new tenant  would have  moved in, how much the 
rent would have  been, whether the property would  have been permanently  tenanted every 
month in the intervening years, or whether Mr S would have received the rent every  month.  
But Im able to work on the balance of probabilities. And given the previous continual rental 
history of the property,  I think its fair to say that its most likely the property  would have been 
permanently tenanted. And to resolve this complaint I think  its fair to base settlement on the 
rent receivable under  the previous tenancy agreement.
In terms of dates, Mr S expected to have a tenant in the property by December 2015. That 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me as it would have given him about two months  from the 
time the previous tenant was evicted to do the renovations and find a new tenant. The 
damage claim was settled in November 2018 and that gave Mr S funds to arrange the 
necessary repairs. He told us that the repair schedule had an expected  repair time of 20 
weeks ie around  five months. Again,  given the amount of damage  and the repairs involved, 
that doesnt seem on the face of it unreasonable to me. I therefore conclude that a fair period 
for Mr Ss loss of rent claim to be paid is from December 2015 to April 2019.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr Ss loss of rent claim from December 2015 to 
April 2019 based  on the amount of rent he would have received each month under the 
previous tenancy  agreement. I also require interest to be added to the settlement  at a rate of 
8% simple  per annum (less  tax if properly deductible), calculated  from the date in the month 
each individual  payment would have  been  due under  the previous tenancy  agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6966710