K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  Plc (trading as Cheltenham  and Gloucester) mis-
sold them  a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. They also say that they 
should get the money back that Lloyds was paid in commission because they werent told 
Lloyds would be paid commission.  
Mr and Mrs H also complain that Lloyds told them it was going to uphold  their complaint and 
compensate them, when it didnt. 
From now on, Ill just refer to Lloyds in my decision  as it is responsible  for dealing  with this 
complaint. 
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a monthly  paid PPI policy in 2001 to run alongside their Lloyds 
mortgage. They took this out at a meeting with Lloyds. Mr H only was covered under the 
policy.
The cost of the policy was initially £37.50 per month. It wouldve covered their monthly  
mortgage repayments if they made a successful  claim for up to 12 months  per claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our general approach to complaints 
about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the PPI application form Mr and Mrs H completed to take out the PPI. This was 
separate from their mortgage paperwork,  so I think they wouldve understood that PPI was 
an optional and separate product. They both signed the form to say they wanted Mr H to be 
covered. So I think  PPI was added because  Mr and Mrs H said they wanted it.
Lloyds accepts that it recommended they take out PPI. So it had to consider  whether the 
policy was suitable  for them. It also had to give them information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that they could decide  for themselves if they wanted  to buy PPI.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of the policy terms and conditions that applied at the time of 
sale. Ive seen a copy of Lloyds terms and conditions from shortly  afterwards.  Based on what 
weve seen from dealing  with other  Lloyds cases,  I think it likely that the terms and 
conditions wouldve been similar to these at the point when Mr and Mrs H bought  this policy.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, I dont PPI was unsuitable  for them.  I 
say this because:
I think it likely that Mr H was eligible to take out the policy. Mrs H wasnt working,  so it 
seems appropriate  that only Mr H was covered; 
Mr H said he was self-employed at the time of sale. But, looking at the terms and 
conditions of other Lloyds policies sold around that time, I think  Mr H wouldve still 
Ref: DRN68364562been covered  if he was off work  sick or became unemployed. So, he couldve 
benefitted in the same way as an employed  person,  and I cant see that it was any 
more difficult for him to make a successful  claim.   I cant see that he was affected by 
any of the main exclusions or limitations. So, I dont think this wouldve put him off 
taking out the policy.
This was a monthly paid policy and Mr and Mrs H couldve cancelled  it at any time 
without losing out financially.
I cant see that their other  means  made the policy  unsuitable for them. They said they 
had a modest amount in savings. However the PPI wouldve allowed them to use these 
to meet  their other household expenditure if Mr H was off work,  particularly as being 
self-employed Mr H didnt have any work related benefits to fall back on.
I agree  its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI may not have 
been as clear as it shouldve  been. So, Ive looked at whether Mr and Mrs H may have lost 
out because of problems with the sale. I cant see that they did.
I cant know what Mr and Mrs H were told about the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But, I cant see that this wouldve  put them off because the policy seemed affordable 
and suitable and they said they wanted  it. So, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided  about the 
costs. On balance,  I think they would still have  taken out the policy.
Ive considered everything that Mr and Mrs H have said.  But this doesnt  change my view. I 
dont think they have lost out because of any problems with this sale and so it follows  that I 
dont think they were mis-sold PPI.
commission
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Lloyds has given us information that shows that Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage started in 2001  
and ended before  April 2008. So based  on what Ive said above, I dont think  the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here. So, Im not upholding  Mr and Mrs Hs commission complaint  either.
Ref: DRN68364563telephone call with Lloyds
Mr H said during a phone call Lloyds told him that it was upholding his complaint and asked 
for the account  details of the account  hed like the compensation paid into.
Having listened  to the call, I note that Lloyds did ask for Mr Hs bank details, but didnt 
indicate it was upholding  his complaint. It asked for details of the account he would like the 
money paid into if it upheld the complaint.  So, I dont think  Lloyds has misled them about 
this. So, I dont uphold  this aspect of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6836456