K820x#14complaint
Miss M and her representative complain that National Westminster  Bank  Plc didnt  follow the 
correct process when clearing a foreign  cheque  she paid into her account.
background
Miss M fell victim to an employment scam. In summary she was sent a cheque  by a third 
party she believed to be a prospective employer. She paid this into her NatWest account. 
The third party then asked  her to send the money back  which  she did. But the original  
cheque was returned unpaid and Miss Ms account became overdrawn.
In the complaint we previously felt NatWest  shouldnt  have  to reimburse Miss M for her loss. 
And as she didnt contest  this view her complaint  was closed. But its now been reopened as 
she and her representative would like us to consider one further point - whether the bank  
followed the correct  process when clearing  the cheque. They say as it was a foreign cheque  
the money shouldnt  have  cleared  so soon after the cheque was paid in.
Our investigator felt this new part of the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  She said that 
NatWest wasnt obliged  to discuss clearance  methods  with Miss M and it wasnt  wrong of it 
to use the negotiation clearance method. This allowed the money to be advanced  to Miss M 
immediately. Even  if Miss M had chosen  the collection method, which was unlikely as it 
would be six weeks before the money  was available, or itd waited under the negotiation 
method for five days  to credit the money  the outcome wouldve been the same as she 
wouldve made the transfer before  the cheque was returned unpaid.  NatWest  hasnt done 
anything wrong.
Miss Ms representative has asked for an ombudsman review. She says in summary that 
Miss M wouldve never agreed  to the negotiation  clearance method if itd been explained. 
She wouldve been happy for the cheque to take some time to clear under the collection 
method. She never asked  for the negotiation method to be used. She wasnt  under  any 
pressure with this job as it was only for some extra hours to supplement  her main  job. 
Miss M also didnt fill in a Nat West form it requires for cheques  paid in by negotiation. 
Proper procedures  werent followed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two ways NatWest mightve  cleared  a foreign cheque. 
Payment by negotiation allows the money  to be advanced to the payee. But this is subject to 
recourse  debiting  the account   in the event of fraudulent activity. 
Payment by collection means the payee will not receive the money until the receiving bank 
has received confirmation  of the cheque clearing  which can take up to six weeks or more.
In Miss Ms case the cheque was processed  by negotiation so the money was available in 
her account  immediately.
Ref: DRN69613872There doesnt seem to have been  any discussion about the cheque  clearance method to be 
used and Miss M didnt  ask about specific questions about it. In addition  I dont think 
NatWest was obliged  to talk about or explain the possible cheque  clearance methods. And it 
wasnt wrong for it to use the negotiation method.
And even  if NatWest hadnt credited  the money  straight away  under negotiation clearance 
method it wouldve been  credited in five days. So, Miss M wouldve still been able to make 
the transfer before the cheque was returned  unpaid.
Miss M has confirmed that the person who served her in the bank said she thought she was 
being scammed. But Miss M said at that time she was sure she wasnt and went ahead  with 
the payment despite this warning. Even at this point and with this warning Miss M doesnt 
appear to have asked  any more about  the clearance  method  or to have acted prudently on 
the warning by delaying making the payment. Had she done so for a short period she 
wouldve become  aware  of the cheque being  returned un-paid.
Miss Ms representative now says Miss M wouldnt have agreed, if asked, to the negotiation 
method being  used  as she wouldve been  happy  to wait for the money to clear  under the 
collection method. 
Although I note what Miss Ms representative  now says, which is with the benefit of 
hindsight, Im not persuaded on balance that that wouldve  necessarily been  the case  at the 
time the cheque was paid in. The money was apparently sent to her on the pretext she had a 
job and shed need to buy some items to use in it. Given  this I think its most likely she 
wouldnt have wanted, or been  able, to wait six weeks for the money  to finally  clear  under 
the collection method  before starting  to buy the necessary items. 
Taking everything into account  Ive seen nothing to suggest on balance  that things wouldve 
likely turned out differently if any discussion had taken place about  the clearance method  to 
be used or if another method had been  used or NatWest hadnt allowed immediate access  to 
the money.
I agree  with the investigator that NatWest followed a correct process and even if itd followed 
a different one the result  wouldve been  the same. Whatever clearance process was used I 
think on balance that Miss M wouldve still made the transfer before the cheque was 
returned unpaid.  
Miss Ms representative has also queried  whether  the bank held a particular completed form 
signed by Miss M relating  to paying in foreign cheques. NatWest hasnt been  able to confirm 
if she actually did so or not. But I dont think this makes any difference to whats  happened 
here. The form in question is an indemnity from Miss M to NatWest and says, amongst other 
things, thats she will indemnify the bank if the cheque is returned unpaid using either the 
collection or negotiation methods. And it confirms NatWest will debit her account for any 
such amounts. It doesnt discuss  or out line the detail involved in using each method.
And, whether or not that form was given  to or signed  by Miss M, as Nat West says the terms 
of the account  say it will not be responsible for any fraudulent or unpaid cheques.
So, although  I understand Miss Ms frustration, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require 
NatWest to do anything  more or differently.  And I dont see any compelling reason to change 
the proposed  outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN69613873my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6961387