K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that goods supplied to him through a credit  agreement financed by Shop 
Direct Finance Company  Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to end the 
agreement and reject  the goods.
background
Mr G is represented in this complaint by his wife but for ease of reading Ill just refer to him.
Mr G tells us he purchased the cooker from Shop Direct in September  2016. He says theres 
been a number of faults with it ever since. Broadly  speaking those faults are said to relate to 
issues with the power  on/off mechanism and overheating. And repairs  havent been  
successful. He wants it to be replaced or the cost refunded as hes lost faith in the particular 
brand.
Shop Direct told us that Mr G had first ordered  a cooker in 2014 - which  had been  covered 
by a guarantee. And it was this item that was replaced in September 2016  when faults  were  
identified. It told us this cooker had subsequently  been inspected by its engineers on several  
occasions but no faults had been  found  until September  2018. It said it was willing  to inspect 
the item again  and repair it if that was possible.
Our investigator has issued three views on this complaint as evidence was later received 
which changed her previous  opinions. In her most recent view she found  that the fault 
identified in September 2018 was the first fault which had been found to relate to this item. 
She felt that Shop Direct should  either repair the item or replace it with an item of equivalent 
age/value.
Shop Direct agreed and said it would arrange for the cooker to be inspected and repaired.
Mr G insisted the cooker had been faulty for two years or more and wanted a refund. As its 
not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman has been  asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr G has experienced problems with this item and I accept its been  the source of 
frustration and inconvenience to him.
We are an evidence based service which means we dont just take into account what  the 
parties tell us but we consider any documentary and/ or other  evidence  with which were 
supplied.
And where  evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN65641552Theres clearly  a disagreement between Mr G and Shop Direct about the number of faults 
which have been  reported and/or identified. Ive seen the reports of various engineers who 
have inspected the cooker  after faults were reported  - but until the most  recent  inspection  
they had not been  able to replicate those faults  during the inspection.  One report  indicated 
that Mr G was using incorrect pans - although  no further explanation of what this actually 
meant was given. So in the absence of a fuller  explanation I cant  say if and how this would 
have affected  the operation of the cooker.
Ive no reason to suppose  that Mr G has not experienced the issues  hes described and the 
engineers did note that faults theyd been  asked to deal with were reported  to be 
intermittent. 
And of course it is the nature of an intermittent fault that it doesnt occur all the time. So its 
entirely plausible that when  the engineers visited the fault was not apparent. But that on 
other occasions - as reported by Mr G - it did occur.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  Relevant law here includes 
the Consumer  Credit Act, 1974 and the Consumer Rights  Act, 2015. Briefly stated this 
means Shop Direct as the supplier of finance  under the agreement, is responsible for the 
goods being of satisfactory  quality at the time of supply. And satisfactory  quality includes an 
element of durability  - that is to say that goods  should be expected to last a reasonable 
length of time. Id expect what was a new cooker  when supplied,  to last for more than two 
years.
The combined effect of the legislation is that if faults  are identified after the first thirty days  
following supply then the supplier should  be given an opportunity  to repair  the item. Whilst 
Mr G reported faults on more than one occasion  - which he says were not successfully 
repaired - its only on the most  recent occasion that an engineer has also identified a fault.
So I think its more probable than not that this is the first occasion  when  the specific nature of 
an alleged  fault has been diagnosed. The engineer  reported faults with the pcb - which I 
understand is the printed  circuit board - and motor.  
In those circumstances I think it is fair and reasonable  to allow Shop Direct to try to repair 
any identified faults.
So whilst Im aware Mr G will be disappointed that Im not immediately ordering a refund or a 
replacement I am upholding his complaint in part.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Ref: DRN65641553In order to resolve the complaint Shop Direct Finance Company Limited must:
1.Arrange for the repairs to the cooker  to be undertaken at a time agreed with Mr G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6564155