K821x#15complaint
Mr C says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven short-term high-cost loans MYJAR provided to Mr C between
September 2016 and March 2018. They  varied  in term from one to 12 months.  This is a 
summary of Mr Cs lending history from MYJAR.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 25/09/2016 27/09/2016 150
2 28/09/2016 14/10/2016 200
3 14/10/2016 15/11/2016 250
4 16/11/2016 18/11/2016 500
5 22/11/2016 16/01/2017 300
6 28/01/2017 22/06/2017 1000
7 23/03/2018 31/07/2018 325
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint in part and thought loans 4 to 6 shouldnt  have 
been given. MYJAR  disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN60738902But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
There was a significant break in Mr Cs borrowing  from MYJAR. There was a gap of around 
nine months between loans 6 and 7. I think it would have been reasonable for MYJAR to
view that gap as an indication that Mr Cs finances  had stabilised after whatever the
circumstances that had caused him to take out his previous loans. So I will look at Mr Cs
borrowing in two separate lending chains. The first chain is made up of loans 1 to 6, and the 
second of loan 7. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate  MYJAR needed to do more  
when it approved loans 1 to 3. It carried out proportionate checks  and there was nothing  in 
the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make different lending  decisions. 
Similarly, for loan 7 in the second lending  chain. Given  the gap in lending I think  it was 
reasonable for MYJAR  to assume Mr Cs financial position had stabilised and based on this, 
I think the checks it carried  out for this loan were proportionate, and didnt show anything  
that should have caused MYJAR to make a different decision.  
So I dont  think MYJAR was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 and loan 7 to Mr C.
Ref: DRN60738903However, by loan 4 I think there were indications that Mr C was struggling to repay  his loans. 
And so MYJAR  ought to have  realised  that to continue to lend to Mr C at this point in time 
might be harmful.  I say this because by then he had taken out another  loan either on the 
same day, or just one day after, repaying his previous three loans. And each  time he had 
asked for a higher amount  loan 1 was for £150 but by loan 4, less than two months later,  
he borrowed  £500. At this stage  I think MYJAR ought to have  considered that Mr C was not 
likely borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing  need.  
And that this  and any subsequent loans in the short term  were not likely to be 
sustainably repayable for him. So I think MYJAR  was wrong to give loans  4 and 5 to Mr C.
  
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of MYJARs lending history  with Mr C, with a view
to seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that
it shouldnt have provided any further loans  until there was a significant gap in lending.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached at
loan 6. I say this because:
Loan 6 was provided within less than two weeks after Mr C had settled his previous 
loan. And as noted above, a pattern of rapid re-lending  was evident in Mr Cs lending 
history.
At this point MYJAR  ought to have realised Mr C was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr C had taken  out six loans within four months. So MYJAR ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Cs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed MYJAR.  As Ive said,  he 
had taken out six loans in four months, and loan 6 was for over six times the value of 
the first. Mr C had paid high interest  charges to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR 
over an extended period.
Loans 3 to 6 were  instalment loans,  with between 3 and 12 month terms. But Mr C 
frequently repaid his loans early,  and on loan 4 just days  after hed taken it out. This 
isnt how instalment loans should usually work. I think  this pattern of lending should 
also have alerted MYJAR to the likelihood  that Mr C was having problems managing 
his money. I think that MYJAR  shouldve been concerned that Mr C might be 
borrowing elsewhere to repay loans, again  increasing his indebtedness 
unsustainably.
I think that Mr C lost out because MYJAR  provided loan 6 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
it was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN60738904Ive carefully considered  MYJARs response to the adjudicators findings and its argument 
that it carried out proportionate checks, but for the reasons set out above this does not 
change my conclusion.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 6, and MYJAR should  put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 4 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Cs credit file
any information recorded about  loan 6 is adverse, so the entry  about  this loan should 
be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give
Mr C a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept
or reject my decision before 9 February  2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6073890