K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 1999. The policy  was taken 
out when Mr G applied  for a loan to fund some  home improvements. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Mr G didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. I explain why below.
BoS has been able to provide the personal loan application  form Mr G completed at the time 
of the sale. I can see from this that Mr G would  have been given two equally clear options to 
take or refuse PPI. Mr G signed for the Yes  option.  So, I think  its more  likely that PPI was 
presented as optional and Mr G chose to take it and thats how it came to be applied  to his 
loan account.   But I understand  why he might not remember this now, many years  later.
BoS has said that it sold Mr G PPI and that it recommended he buy the policy.  Mr G says 
BoS didnt recommend it.  Ive decided to look at this complaint as though  it did because it 
places a higher  standard on BoS for how it sold the policy and it doesnt  make a difference  to 
the outcome.
So, BoS needed to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr G. And it seems  to have been 
right for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. I say this because Mr 
G was eligible for the policy and he wouldnt have  been affected  by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover. 
I think BoS could  have explained the cost of the policy better  than it did  it could have 
provided the monthly cost of the cover. But even if it had, I think Mr G would still have bought 
it. I say this because whilst  Mr G told us his initial sick pay was good and that he had some 
modest savings, the PPI would have covered the loan repayment for the remaining term of 
the loan if Mr G was off work sick and for up to 12 months per claim if Mr G lost his job.  It 
would also pay off the balance of the loan if Mr G had died.  And given how long the policy  
could have paid out for, if Mr G made  a successful  claim, he could have got back quite a bit 
more than he paid for it. 
Mr G would, most likely,  have got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if he 
cancelled the policy early. I dont know if BoS thought about this when it recommended the 
policy, or if it explained the situation  clearly to Mr G. But I havent  seen  anything  to suggest  
Ref: DRN65671182he thought hed repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt  right for 
him. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the policy was unaffordable to Mr G or that he had 
a need to keep costs  down.
Its possible that the information BoS gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better  
information wouldve  stopped him from buying  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint  about  Bank  of Scotland plc.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6567118