K820x#14complaint
Mr I1 has complained that his mortgage  broker, Agate Financial, an authorised  
representative of TenetLime Ltd, has charged a fee for its services. The complaint has been 
brought on Mr I1s behalf by his father, Mr I2.
background
In 2017 Mr I1 was a first-time buyer  and was looking to purchase a new-build apartment  with 
the assistance of a deposit gifted by Mr I2 and a Help To Buy loan. He also needed  a 
mortgage and was referred by the developer to Agate  to arrange the mortgage.
Mr I1 signed a client  agreement on 27 September 2017. This provided  (amongst other  
things) that a fee of £395 was payable to Agate for its services. The contract terms said Our 
fee becomes payable  upon submitting the application to the recommended provider.
A mortgage application was submitted. A mortgage offer was issued which  was later 
withdrawn. An application was made to another lender.  After  concerns about delays in 
completing the development and about the quality  of the workmanship, Mr I1 decided not to 
go ahead  with his purchase and dispensed  with Agates services.
Mr I1 asked for his £395 fee back, which Agate  refused to reimburse. Mr I2says  that there 
was collusion between Agate and the developer  and excuses about why the development 
was nowhere near completion which Agate must  have known about.
The complaint was brought to us where it was considered by an investigator.  He didnt  think 
Agate was obliged  to refund the fee. Mr I1 had signed an agreement  that he would pay it 
when the application was submitted.
Mr I2 disagreed with the investigators findings. He has reiterated all the points hes made  
about his concerns relating to the development. He also says: How on earth  can a 
mortgage advisor be paid just for making  a submission and a recommendation? This is 
nonsense. Especially  after being  informed by the new advisor/arranger that its normal  
practice not to request payment until the mortgage  offer is arranged and executed .
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I will explain  at the outset  that I am only able to consider the actions of Agate in relation to 
the regulated  activity  of providing  mortgage  advice. So although Ive noted Mr I2s concerns 
about delays by the developer in completing  the build (which he says Agate must  have  
known about), thats not something  I can comment on  except  to say that its not unusual 
for developers to refer new clients to a mortgage  broker. So I find nothing  sinister or 
untoward in the developer directing Mr I1 to Agate. Mr I1 was always  free to decline to use 
Agates services and go to another broker or directly  to a lender to apply for a mortgage.
Im satisfied the fee agreement signed by Mr I1 is a legally-binding contract  which says the 
fee is due and payable when a mortgage  application  is submitted. Although Mr I2 says that 
hes been told this is unusual, in my experience it is fairly standard practice.
Ref: DRN62883802I appreciate that the mortgage  didnt  proceed  to completion; thats because Mr I1 decided  
not to go ahead with his purchase. But in any event, the agreement  between Mr I1 and 
Agate doesnt say that the mortgage  has to be completed in order for Agate to be entitled to 
its fee. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to order  Agate to 
reimburse Mr I1 for the £395 fee he agreed  to pay under the client agreement.
Mr I2 has said that he wants us to give him guidance about how to pursue the matter further. 
Because were  independent and impartial, we arent able to give advice to consumers. If 
Mr I1 doesnt accept  my decision, it will not be legally binding  on him or Agate  and he will be 
free to pursue the matter in court, if he wishes to do so. I would suggest Mr I1 takes legal 
advice from a solicitor before pursuing any legal proceedings.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6288380