K820x#14complaint
SC, a limited  company, is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC is using the personal 
data of its director. SC wants the Financial Ombudsman Service  to require Barclays to 
change the way this data is used.  
SCs director, who Ill refer to us D, brings the complaint on its behalf.  
background
SC is unhappy that Ds name is displayed on Barclays business online banking  screen  and 
printed on statements,  letters  and other  documents.  D, on behalf of SC, complained  to the 
bank about this. 
Barclays didnt uphold  SCs complaint. In brief it said the information it held for D was correct 
and the bank needed to hold this for legal reasons. But Barclays did say it would try to 
accommodate SCs  wishes where possible by replacing Ds name  with The Director where 
it could. 
Barclays also said it had no record of previous letters  SC sent about  this issue. It paid £25 to 
SCs account for the delay  in responding to its complaint because of this.
SC wasnt happy with this and brought its complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators  
looked into it. In short, the adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Barclays to hold Ds 
personal information and the purpose  for having it was based on the banks legal  obligations. 
SC didnt  accept this. Amongst other  things, it referred  us to a previous complaint SC had 
made about Barclays to the Information Commissioners Office  (ICO).  Our adjudicator 
pointed out that the earlier  ICO complaint was about a separate  issue.  The adjudicator  didnt 
think Barclays had done anything wrong.  
SC still wasnt happy with this. It told us it had since referred this matter to the ICO as well. 
As SC didnt accept  the adjudicators view, this case  has been  passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
did Barclays act fairly  and reasonably in dealing with SCs complaint?
 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
The crux of this complaint is about the data Barclays holds about D, the director of SC. The 
banks position  is quite straightforward. It says it needs to hold this information to meet the 
Ref: DRN66189252banks legal and regulatory obligations. SC doesnt agree with how Barclays  is using this 
information. 
I should make it clear here that our service doesnt  regulate Barclays  in respect of its 
conduct or for data protection matters. Thats down to the Financial Conduct Authority and 
the ICO respectively.  Its not our role to decide if Barclays has breached  any regulatory 
requirements or broken data protection regulations. Thats a matter  for the relevant 
regulators outlined  above. 
We cant tell Barclays how it should comply with its regulatory obligations. Nor can we tell it 
what systems  it should have in place to meet these obligations, or tell the bank to change  its 
systems. These are all internal matters for Barclays. 
What I can look at is if these systems  have  caused SC to suffer a financial loss and if 
Barclays has treated it fairly  and reasonably  here. The available evidence  doesnt show 
theres been any financial loss to SC. Nor does it show its been unable  to carry out any of its 
normal functions and activities due to this issue. 
Barclays has told SC that wherever it can, it will replace Ds personal details with the 
Director. I think  this is fair and reasonable. I can see that in its response to SCs complaint, 
the bank made it absolutely clear that it couldnt guarantee that all letters  wouldnt  contain 
Ds name rather than the Director. Given the multitude of systems and platforms  a 
business the size of Barclays  has, Im satisfied  this is also fair and reasonable. 
I know SC is fully aware of this, but its important that I make clear  that its SC who is 
Barclays customer here, not D. SC is a totally separate entity from D, who is its 
representative. As a standalone entity, SC cant suffer  distress  or upset in the way an 
individual person, such as D, can. While  I accept  D has been very frustrated by this issue, as 
Ive just said, D isnt the banks  customer here, SC is. 
In summary,  Barclays has already paid SC £25 for the inconvenience caused by the delay in 
responding to its complaint. As Ive already said, its also agreed to replace Ds name  with 
the Director wherever possible.  Taken  all of the above into account,  Im satisfied Barclays 
has dealt with SCs complaint fairly  and reasonably. 
For completeness, Im aware that SC has taken this issue to the ICO. Im also aware  that the 
ICO has, in turn, written to Barclays about it. This is a matter between SC and the ICO. Its 
not something our service  can interfere with or comment on any further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask SC to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6618925