K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Lloyds merged with the business that sold PPI to Mr and Mrs C and it has dealt with this 
complaint. So from now on Ill just refer in my decision  to Lloyds.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a mortgage in 2000. It covered  Mr C 
and protected  Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  monthly  repayments in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion.
Mr and Mrs C mainly said they were always advised to take PPI to ensure theyd be 
accepted for credit  and Lloyds misled them into believing it was compulsory. Mr and Mrs C 
also told us that they were  both in full-time employment and entitled to sick pay and they had 
savings. So they had no need for PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
I cant know precisely what  was said when Mr and Mrs C arranged  this PPI. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  them to recall exactly what was discussed so long ago. This means 
that what Mr and Mrs C say now isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold their 
complaint about  the way they were sold this PPI. I have  to look at everything and decide 
what I think is most likely.  
There were Yes and No options  to take out PPI on their mortgage application. I can see 
that Mr and Mrs C ticked  their mortgage application form to show they wanted  to take out 
PPI. So I think they would've been  able to see that it was up to them to say if they wanted  
this insurance or not as they couldve ticked the No option if they hadnt wanted  PPI.
Mr C also answered questions to check he was eligible for the cover.  Mrs C didn't complete 
this part of the application. But they both signed their completed mortgage application at the 
end to confirm  they agreed with the information on it.
Its completely understandable if Mr and Mrs C have now forgotten the details of an 
application they made so long ago. But, on balance, I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs C 
decided they wanted to protect their home by taking out the PPI offered and they chose to 
buy the policy to cover Mr C. 
Ref: DRN62865402Lloyds Bank  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. If a business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable . 
Ive taken carefully into account  what Mr and Mrs C told us about  their employment benefits 
and savings they had when they applied for the policy. It doesnt look to me as if PPI was 
unsuitable for them based on what theyve  said about their circumstances at the time. 
Mr C was eligible for the PPI cover. His employer wouldve paid him full sick pay for 
6 months followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 
12 months per accident and sickness claim.  So the PPI provided better protection than he 
couldve relied on getting through his employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay 
providing Mr and Mrs C with a useful benefit  at a difficult  time  especially bearing in mind 
that they mightve had some extra costs as a result of Mr C being  sick or disabled and he 
wouldve only been on half pay after being off work sick for 6 months. 
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr C lost his job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs C had some  savings. But there  was no guarantee 
when Mr and Mrs C took out this mortgage that they would always  have savings to rely on. 
The mortgage was taken out when  both Mr and Mrs C were in paid work  - and Mr C was the 
main earner at the time. So I dont know how easy it wouldve been for Mrs C to maintain the 
monthly repayments on her own if Mr C wasnt working and they didnt have PPI. I think  the 
policy benefits wouldve  been important to Mr and Mrs C at the time. Their mortgage was a 
major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of years.  Their  home  
wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. Repeat  claims 
were possible  which means  the PPI provided dependable long term protection.  
So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
Its possible  some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Mr C wasnt affected  by any of the main  conditions that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to him. So, even if these  werent mentioned, I dont think 
that knowing more  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference  to 
Mr and Mrs Cs decision to have PPI. 
It seems  Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so it appears they wanted this type 
of cover. I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs C when they applied  for 
the policy. But the monthly premium was mentioned on their mortgage  offer and, from what 
Ive seen, it doesnt appear  to have been unaffordable  for them  when they took it out. They 
paid for the policy on a monthly basis and so they couldve  cancelled  it without incurring any 
extra cost if they decided at any time they no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs C still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed as 
it gave them worthwhile protection in their particular situation. I dont  think  better information 
wouldve put them off buying PPI given  the benefits it offered them.
Ref: DRN62865403Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Cs comments, including what  theyve said about  the way 
other PPI claims have been dealt with. We look at all cases on their own merits, taking into 
account the particular circumstances which apply  in each individual  case. I am concerned  
here just with their complaint about the PPI sold with this mortgage.  So this information 
doesnt change  my conclusion.
I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment. In my decision  I've dealt with 
all the main points Mr and Mrs C have raised that have an impact on the outcome of this 
complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my decision.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6286540