K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about their home  insurer  Ageas  Insurance  Limited after they 
made a claim to it following a fire at their home. They think  it handled their claim poorly and 
that it has failed  to provide adequate settlements  to them.
background
There was a fire at Mr and Mrs Ss home on 6 March 2016. Ageas instructed recovery 
specialists straight away  but arranging a successful appointment  proved difficult.  A loss 
adjuster visited and issued a report dated  17 March. Within  the report it was noted  that 
Mrs S is disabled and that the family had, understandably, been staying elsewhere. It was 
also noted that really  a rental property was needed. Mr and Mrs S were asked to keep and 
submit all receipts for the hotel accommodation theyd arranged. On 24 March an interim  
payment of £5,000  was paid.
In April the loss adjuster recorded that the reported  rates were expensive.  A further payment 
was recommended at the end of April. By this time there had still been no attendance  at the 
property by the recovery specialists.
Into May Mr and Mrs S were having  difficulty paying  the hotel bills. They had told the loss 
adjuster at the end of March what the daily room rate was and that the interim payment 
made (referring to the total)  was only just enough  to have covered their costs  to that point. 
But no proof  of costs was provided. Some detail was copied  to the adjuster  in May or June 
and further payments were made. In November 2016 suitable rental accommodation was 
found and the family  moved there. Having paid for the rental and various sums towards hotel  
accommodation Ageas paid out the remaining  balance of the limit on the policy  for 
accommodation to Mr and Mrs S. It did this as it noted there  were  likely costs that still hadnt 
been substantiated.
Following Ageass attempts to have its recovery specialist attend the property in March 2016  
a different company visited in August 2016.  Previously  reinstatement  work had been  
expected to start at the beginning of August but this was noted to be dependent upon the 
property being  cleaned and cleared first. Mr and Mrs S had always  been concerned about 
what chemicals would be used in any cleaning that was done (to the house  and their 
belongings). Theyd also indicated they wanted  to go through  their belongings first before 
any specialists removed  items.
Following the visit in August 2016  the property was cleared  but there was a lot of work to do. 
Reinstatement work was finally  scheduled  to start in November. In December, with 
reinstatement work  not having started, Mr and Mrs S raised some  concerns  about the house 
being empty  and unheated over winter. Ageas sent a plumber to check  the boiler and found 
it needed a new pump.  This was unrelated to the fire but Ageas arranged  to have it replaced.
Just prior to Christmas 2016 the loss adjuster  arranged to meet  Mr and Mrs S to discuss the 
claim. Ageas specialist  confirmed that the cleaning and re-packing of contents items should  
be complete by the end of January The scope of the new kitchen was shared with 
Mr and Mrs S. They told Ageas they didnt like the shaker style detailed on the quote. 
Reinstatement was put on hold whilst  the kitchen issue was resolved. An amended quote 
was produced  taking  into account the kitchen Mr and Mrs S had chosen in February 2017. 
On 1 March Ageas told its loss adjuster that Mr and Mrs S were no longer  happy for its 
involvement and it was appointing a new adjusting company.
Ref: DRN68302492Further discussions about the kitchen occurred as Mr and Mrs S felt they hadnt been given 
any real options previously. A meeting  was held when various designs and colours were 
discussed and an agreement reached. Mr and Mrs S then contacted  Ageas and said theyd 
revised their decision and wanted to consider further options. An amended design was 
approved by Mr and Mrs S and ordered in late April/early May with an expected delivery  time 
of three weeks. By mid-June the re-fitting of the kitchen was underway. Mr and Mrs S had 
opted to source  and arrange  provision  of the appliances themselves and which  Ageas 
agreed to pay for. At this time the new adjuster was investigating why Mr and Mrs Ss jacuzzi 
bath wasnt working.
Around this time Mr and Mrs S identified that their property had suffered damage in a 
number of places since the fire and that items had been stolen from their garden.  The new 
adjuster considered this but told Mr and Mrs S the damage issues were felt to be general 
maintenance and not claim or work related. The new adjuster told Mr and Mrs S that the 
stolen items  would have  to be reported to the police and a new claim raised with Ageas.
The property was ready to return to in July 2017.  The new adjuster  arranged for it to be 
cleaned before Mr and Mrs S returned home but when they did they raised various issues of 
snagging and concerns  about it not having been  cleaned. They  complained about gloss  
paint being used which theyd specifically requested was avoided.  One of the kitchen 
drawers was dusty and contained  installation  debris.  The new adjuster accepted  that there 
were some minor issues with some of the work and agreed to resolve these. Ageas started 
to look to have the contents  items  returned to Mr and Mrs S but accepted this needed to be 
a phased process.
Some contents items were returned  but Mr and Mrs S became reluctant  to allow  further 
deliveries. They said items werent categorised correctly in the boxes, hadnt been cleaned  
and it was difficult for them  to open and handle everything. In October, following several 
aborted appointments for return  of items Ageas arranged to move  all of Mr and Mrs Ss 
remaining belongings to a storage depot more  local to them.  Ageas  paid them £1,000 to 
allow for journeys to and from the depot and/or to pay someone to help with sorting contents. 
The new adjuster told Mr and Mrs S this storage arrangement would be funded until
1 December 2017, which should  give them a chance to arrange for all their contents  to be 
returned to them. Mr and Mrs S said they didnt think they could achieve this in that time but 
Ageas wasnt minded  to increase the timeframe.
By this point Mr and Mrs S had complained  to this service  that happened  initially in 
February 2017 and then in more detail in July around the time Mr and Mrs S returned  home.  
In December  2017 our investigator negotiated between the parties in respect of storage and 
items were returned to Mr and Mrs S home  in late January 2018.
Our investigator issued  her detailed view on the complaint  in May 2018.  She thought  that 
overall Ageas had acted fairly and reasonably. Mr and Mrs S asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
In June 2018  Mrs S emailed our investigator  and summarised everything she saw as 
outstanding. She said they were still out of pocket  with various  things not being paid. 
Clothing and other items  hadnt been  cleaned and certain contents  items hadnt been paid 
for. Mrs S said the carpets  installed were  cheap and temporary, not like what  theyd had 
before. It was reported that the kitchen and flooring  werent like for like and that the hob, 
boiler and bath werent working. Mr and Mrs S told our investigator that they wanted to 
Ref: DRN68302493submit further evidence, including expert reports.  Later when our investigator called to say 
nothing had been received Mr and Mrs S said theyd  been too unwell to obtain  anything 
further and they just wanted a decision to be made.
I then considered the complaint and felt it was necessary to issue  a provisional decision.  
Due to the number of issues  in question  my findings  were quite  long. Overall  though  I wasnt  
persuaded that Ageas had done anything wrong. Ageas accepted my findings. Mr and Mrs S 
made a number of points  objecting to my provisional findings. Ive considered  their 
responses, they havent changed my view. My findings, including  their responses and my 
views on those are set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained provisionally that whilst Id set out a long background it was still a summary  of 
what had gone  on. It wasnt intended  to be a blow-by-blow  account of all activity  and 
correspondence. Similarly with respect  to my findings I said I wouldnt go into and assess  
every action or reported failure to act. But I reassured Mr and Mrs S that I had considered  
everything that had been said. I further  explained that as the circumstances had moved on 
so much since Mr and Mrs S first complained  to this service my focus was going to fall on 
the issues Mr and Mrs S told us were outstanding in June 2018. But in respect  of 
compensation Id considered the whole history of the claim.
repaired house not habitable
I said provisionally:
Ive seen  the photos Mr and Mrs S provided  when they returned home. I can see furniture 
was piled up and that there were a couple of cobwebs  as well as a dirty drawer.  Im not 
persuaded the cobwebs show the house  wasnt cleaned  I understand these can form quite  
quickly and there doesnt  seem  to be dust on the skirting boards such  as Id expect to see if 
the house hadnt been cleaned. The drawer, I think, had been missed  in the cleaning. This 
isnt ideal but I dont  think it means  the rest of house was unfit.
I know  gloss paint was used which Mr and Mrs S had said was unsuitable. But I can also see 
that Ageas had agreed to use other  paints  but the contractor  reported that a change had 
been requested  by Mr and Mrs S back to gloss. I have no way to know what  transpired in 
reinstatement negotiations  such arent  recorded.  But given other  changes  did occur  during 
the repairs Im not persuaded that the use of gloss paint  likely resulted from the contractor 
making a careless  mistake.  The property probably should have been given more  time to air 
though once work was finished.  That being  said I can understand why Ageas wanted  
Mr and Mrs S to return home as quickly as possible at that point. I think  Ageas  tried to 
accommodate Mr and Mrs Ss needs during the repairs.
The furniture was piled up and not redistributed around the house. I understand Ageas  later 
assisted with this. It wasnt ideal to come home to find items stacked like this but, even in 
Mr and Mrs Ss situation, I dont think that made  the home uninhabitable. I think  some  
disruption and inconvenience  like this could fairly be expected.
Ref: DRN68302494Mr and Mrs S made no comment in this respect.  My view hasnt changed. These findings 
now form part of my final decision.
lack of heating caused damage
I said provisionally:
Items were left in the home for a long time and there was no heating. Im not persuaded this 
caused much problem though. Given the time of year I think  its unlikely a lack of internal 
heating would have  affected the window frames externally. The fire was isolated to the 
kitchen (although smoke  affected the whole  house).  So the house wasnt  made damp  
throughout via the fire brigade. And again  I dont  think a lack of heating  from spring  through  
to late autumn would have caused much  problem. Items such  as rugs always  needed 
restoring due to the smoke damage anyway and this work  was completed by Ageas.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  object to anything Id said on this subject.  My  view hasnt changed. 
These findings now form part of my final decision.
But Mr and Mrs S did add that their double  glazing  had failed. They  said theyd been told this 
had been caused by the property being  damp.  
Im not sure when this failure is alleged to have occurred. But I said provisionally  that I didnt 
think the house would likely have suffered by having been left without heating on from spring  
to late autumn. I know there have been  issues with the boiler since  (Ive commented  on that 
provisionally and will do so further  below)  but Im not minded to say Ageas should  look at the 
windows. From what Mr and Mrs S have described  it seems to me that the seals  on the 
double glazed  units have likely  failed. This is a maintenance  issue and happens over time 
regardless of a house being  heated or not. And I havent seen any expert evidence that 
makes me think the failure is something  different  and related to the fire or repairs.  Therefore, 
Im not going  to make any award  in this respect against Ageas.
faulty boiler
I said provisionally:
Ageas fixed the boiler.  The plumber reported  the problem wasnt  related to the fire. Ageas 
wouldnt ordinarily have  fixed a boiler like this but it felt it was important to restore  it so the 
property could be heated over the winter months whilst it was still empty.  I think  this was a 
fair approach by it. I know Mr and Mrs S say it isnt working properly now but Im not minded 
to find Ageas at fault for that. It has sent further  plumbers to check  it but no fault has been 
found. It has said it will consider a report from Mr and Mrs S if they provide one to show what  
is wrong with it and whether this is related to the fire or work it did.
Mr and Mrs S have also reported high gas bills as a result of the boiler issues. Unless or until 
it is shown that the faults present are most likely a result of the fire and/or Ageas work, 
I cant fairly  make it consider the cost incurred for gas usage.
In response Mr and Mrs S said theyve been  told that the fault is with the wiring  and it will 
cost £400 to fix. They said though that they hadnt  yet received written confirmation of this. 
As Ageas has agreed to consider any expert evidence provided, if Mr and Mrs S do obtain 
this it can be sent to it for consideration.  This information hasnt changed my view 
Ref: DRN68302495provisionally stated  and which now form part of this final decision. Im not going to require 
Ageas to do anything  in this respect. 
sacking of the original  loss adjuster
I said provisionally:
Mr and Mrs S listed this as an outstanding  point  in June 2018 but it had occurred over a 
year before.  I can see that Ageas chose to change the loss adjuster. From what I can see it 
did this as it realised the relationship between the adjuster and Mr and Mrs S had become 
unworkable. I can see that there  were times when the loss adjuster could have kept 
Mr and Mrs S up to date a little more but I can also see lots and lots of contact that did occur, 
sometimes several times a day. Im not persuaded that Ageas sacked the adjuster  because 
it really felt they had failed, rather it was a pro-active attempt at moving  the claim toward 
resolution. I think  it acted appropriately here.
Mr and Mrs S made no comment in this respect.  My view hasnt changed. These findings 
now form part of my final decision.
contents items
I said provisionally:
Mr and Mrs S say there was an agreement for large  items  to be left to clean  in-situ  and this 
was reneged upon. I have seen email  correspondence between the second specialist 
company and Mr and Mrs S and I cant see any such  agreement. But even if there had been 
one it is often the case that plans like this change once work  starts. Im not minded to think 
any failure occurred  in this respect.
Mr and Mrs S have reported  many  items  as being  damaged. Ive seen photos  from just after 
the fire showing a lot of contents in Mr and Mrs Ss home. Ive also seen reports  stating that 
some items packed were already showing  signs  of wear and damage.  Ive seen photos from 
the warehouse  showing  clothing  items  neatly  folded in stacked piles.  Ive also seen a 
detailed email about the storage and assessment  process  undertaken in respect of 
Mr and Mrs Ss belongings. Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs Ss items were damaged by Ageass contractor. I note though that Ageas and 
the new adjuster  have  agreed to follow up with the second specialist company on this issue.
In response, Mr and Mrs S gave further detail about items they thought  Ageas  had 
damaged. They explained how, in respect  of some  furniture, the polished finish  had been 
damaged. 
Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ss strength of feeling on this issue, I found  provisionally that 
I wasnt persuaded that Ageas had caused  damage  to any items. Nothing Mr and Mrs S 
have said in response has given me cause to change that view. My provisional findings  now 
form part of my final decision.
Mr and Mrs S also asked  about some items they say theyve  been  unable to find. Ageas 
says some did go into the local storage unit, some  were disposed of as beyond  repair  and 
some its operative has no recollection of. 
Ref: DRN68302496Ive reviewed the situation surrounding storage. I know  items were moved to a local unit and 
Mr and Mrs S were  given access to this during the period the items  were stored there.  
I know the items were  then returned to Mr and Mrs Ss home  at the end of January 2018 and 
Mr and Mrs S reported to us at the end of March that some items were  missing but they 
hadnt yet opened all the boxes.
Its unfortunate if items  are missing but given the long period over which Mr and Mrs S had 
control of their belongings  before they checked  everything had been returned, Im not 
persuaded that placing any blame on Ageas would be fair or reasonable. I know  the difficult 
position Mr and Mrs S were in and Ive taken all of that into account but Im satisfied that 
Ageas did everything  it reasonably could be expected  to have done in order to assist  
Mr and Mrs S. I think Ageas handled  the assessment  and disposal of damaged  items  
adequately and Ive seen  no evidence  that it damaged items in storage so Im not minded to 
believe it negligently lost items that should  otherwise have been  kept and returned  to 
Mr and Mrs S.
items stolen  from garden
I said provisionally:
Mr and Mrs S asked  Ageas to put a security gate up to prevent access  to the property but it 
didnt. They say items were stolen  and it was Ageas fault.  Having seen  photos  of the 
property Im not persuaded that a gate would have  prevented trespassers into the grounds.  
That being said Im not sure how or why anyone would steal a mature apple  tree or part of a 
laurel hedge. I know items have been  reported to the police and Im not sure if Ageas has 
considered this as a claim under  the policy or if Mr and Mrs S wish it to. Im not persuaded 
that, as far as the fire claim  goes, Ageas failed Mr and Mrs S in anyway such  that its fair to 
say it has liability for the items reported as stolen.
In response Mr and Mrs S said that the apple tree and hedge were cut down by a builder 
working next door (rather than being  stolen)  but that this wouldnt have happened if the 
house hadnt been vacant. Mr and Mrs S believe that in respect of stolen items too, as well 
as regarding rubbish that was dumped on the property.
Again, whilst Ive considered what Mr and Mrs S have said, no new points have been  raised 
that give me cause to review my provisional findings  which now form part of this final 
decision. The situation regarding the tree and the hedge makes more  sense  now but Im not 
persuaded that Ageas  actions caused that to be able to occur,  or that if it had handled the 
claim differently, the removal  of the vegetation would have been avoided.  If Mr and Mrs S 
want to make a claim for stolen items  theyll need  to discuss this with Ageas.
Ref: DRN68302497outside tap dripping damaging stone  work
I said provisionally:
I think this comes under general  maintenance. I appreciate that its difficult to keep on top of 
property maintenance  if you arent living there  and whilst having  to deal with a claim.  
However, Ageas wasnt responsible for the general  upkeep of the property,  that liability 
remained with Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S made no comment in this respect.  My view hasnt changed. These findings 
now form part of my final decision.
jacuzzi bath
I said provisionally: 
Mrs S says this wasnt cleaned and was left mouldy (she is allergic to mould). She said it 
didnt work.  I know Ageas was looking into the fault with the bath but Im not sure how it 
concluded this matter. In any event  though  I also know it felt this fault was likely not 
connected with the fire or lack of use. On balance I think I tend to find its thoughts  in this 
respect are reasonable. As noted  before the fire was isolated to the kitchen and Ive also 
seen that whilst the whole house  suffered smoke damage the effect upstairs  was minimal. 
I havent seen any expert view to suggest  the bath failed due to lack of use.
In response Mr and Mrs S have said that the instructions for the bath say it has to be flushed  
through every week. They say that because they were living elsewhere between  March 2016 
and July 2017 this wasnt done.  
I understand the point Mr and Mrs S have made but there is still no expert evidence  that tells 
me why the bath isnt working.  I said provisionally, regarding other maintenance issues, that 
I felt responsibility for keeping on top of maintenance never  passed  to Ageas. In addition, 
and whilst I havent seen  the instruction manual, I would expect that flushing the pipes  once 
a week is necessary whilst the bath is in use to clear away  soap residue and any other 
detritus resulting  from its use. And it also doesnt seem, if the bath did need flushing once a 
week regardless, that Ageas was ever made aware  of this such  that it could have  taken 
reasonable action to prevent damage  from occurring as it did with initially  repairing the 
boiler. My provisional findings, along  with my additional comments here are now part of my 
final decision; Im not going to make Ageas do anything in this respect.
carpeting, bannister, pictures  and curtain rails
I said provisionally:
Mr and Mrs S had said theyd arrange  replacing  the carpets but, just before they were  due 
to move home, they told the loss adjuster their supplier had let them down. Ageas tried to 
arrange a like-for-like replacement through its supplier but it couldnt  do this in the time 
required to allow the move home to go ahead without delay. Ageas therefore  arranged to fit 
some carpets to allow Mr and Mrs S to return home. These werent like-for-like but did cost 
over two thousand pounds. Ageas then met with Mr and Mrs S to discuss  finalising the 
claim. They said they felt Ageas should  have  paid them cash to settle their contents  items at 
the outset so they could decide what to replace. Ageas looked at what  it had spent  and what  
was left on the cover.  It said it would settle the remainder of the claim by paying in cash the 
Ref: DRN68302498difference between  its outlay to date and the sum insured on the policy. This was £14,301.26  
and was paid without further delay.  But Mr and Mrs S have said they now want Ageas to fit 
like-for-like replacement carpets. They said the bannister wasnt  repaired properly and is 
unsafe, that pictures werent put back up and some curtain rails are missing.
I havent seen evidence of missing curtain rails or that Mr and Mrs S have incurred an outlay 
to re-hang  pictures.  I see a spindle on the stairs  was broken and I understand this was fixed, 
I havent seen any evidence that the bannister is unsafe.
In any event, Ageas has paid out over £14,000 in cash to settle outstanding elements of the 
claim. I understand that replacements  carpets  were  quoted by Ageas supplier at around 
£7,000 and the contents damaged beyond repair by the fire were  quantified  at just under 
£6,000. So Ageas has covered the cost of these items with its payment of £14,301.26 whilst 
still leaving  around £2,500 spare for Mr and Mrs S to use as they see fit. In the 
circumstances here I think settling in cash at the point it did was a reasonable thing for 
Ageas to do. And I cant see that it would  be fair to make it liable for any of these outstanding 
issues raised by Mr and Mrs S. Id clarify here that my comments  in this respect are related 
to fire (including smoke) damaged items  and Ageas liability in that respect  I gave my view 
above on Mr and Mrs Ss concerns about  items having been damaged by Ageas.
In response Mr and Mrs S gave more  detail about  the poor quality of the carpet  and what  
had happened  regarding the banister. They said theyd had someone  fit curtain rails and 
hang the curtains but they hadnt  done  this properly.
I appreciate the further problems Mr and Mrs S have  had but nothing theyve said makes me 
think Ageas  should  pay anything  more.  In my view Ageas payment provides sufficiently for 
replacement carpeting  and I havent seen  that fitting the rails and hanging curtains  has 
exhausted the spare £2,500 that was left after having also taken into account the cost of the 
beyond repair items.  I think Ageas has adequately  covered  the cost of repairing or replacing 
fire damaged contents items at Mr and Mrs Ss home.
Mr and Mrs S have  said though that if Ageas hadnt  spent so much on restoring items  that 
didnt need cleaning that would have saved money  that could have been used on other 
things. Im not convinced  that Ageas did clean things unnecessarily.  But even if it did Mrs S 
wouldnt be entitled to receiving the related outlay. And Ageas  having done that doesnt 
mean Mr and Mrs S have received less in settlement for the rest of their claim. Im satisfied,  
as I said above,  that Ageas has settled the claim adequately. My provisional findings,  along  
with my additional comments here are now part of my final decision;  Im not going to make 
Ageas do anything in this respect.
kitchen and hob
I said provisionally:
Mr and Mrs S say the kitchen is very different to what they had before  in terms of cupboard 
sizes and layout.  They say the quality  is poor.  Im not minded to say Ageas failed 
Mr and Mrs S in this respect. Ive set out above some detail about the process both loss 
adjusters went through in trying to get a design  for the kitchen agreed.  Im satisfied  that 
Mr and Mrs S were properly consulted and had ample chance  to choose a design  and 
scheme that suited them. Its unfortunate they are now not happy with what they chose but 
Im not persuaded this has resulted from any failure  of Ageas.
Ref: DRN68302499The hob is reportedly  not working. Ive seen no proof of this or anything to say what  the 
problem might be. Im not minded to say Ageas has any responsibility for this.
In response Mr and Mrs S gave some  further detail about the problems theyre  having  with 
the kitchen. Ive reviewed  everything on file, including  comparing some  pictures  of the old 
and new kitchen. I cant see that any major changes in the layout of the kitchen have 
occurred. And Im still satisfied that Mr and Mrs S were consulted on numerous occasions in 
order that a kitchen that met their approval could be provided. 
Mr and Mrs S have  said the tap provided  was painted and this is flaking. I understand that a 
tap in the finish Mr and Mrs S required couldnt be provided and so painting was agreed to 
resolve this. I understand that the potential issues with having a tap with a painted finish  
were discussed with Mr and Mrs S and they had the option of choosing  a tap in a different  
finish that wouldnt need painting but they werent inclined to do this. Mr and Mrs S had a 
brass finish  tap before  and I understand theyd want such again  but I accept that the repair  
company simply couldnt source a tap in the same style and finish as was in place before 
and a compromise had to be found somewhere.  Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs S are now 
unhappy with the option they chose but I think they were likely given enough information to 
make that choice. 
I know Mr and Mrs S had a leak from the tap. I know this was fixed. That was 
November 2017.  Theyve  now said the unit under the sink was damaged  by this leak.  I cant  
see this was brought to Ageas attention  at the time the leak was repaired. It is possible that 
an overflow from the sink might have caused damage like this too. Given  the passage of 
time Im not able to know what most likely  occurred.  Im not going to make  Ageas do 
anything in this respect.
Im also not persuaded that Ageas failed  Mr and Mrs S regarding the hob and oven. As with 
the kitchen design I think consultation about  these items did occur and Ageas contractor did 
its best to meet Mr and Mrs Ss requirements. The photos of the new kitchen dont show  a 
drastic difference  between the two items; one is not black and the other silver for example. 
So whilst they may not be the same make I cant  see that they are unlike each other. And 
I think Mr and Mrs S main  issue is that they say the hob doesnt work.  Ive given my answer  
on that previously and Ive still seen no evidence  that shows  the hob doesnt work.
Mr and Mrs S say the extractor is a different design to their previous one. Sometimes  it isnt 
possible for items to be replaced with exactly the same make  and model  as before. On 
occasion the properties of an item might  be replicated even if the overall finish and style 
arent. In any event, I said above Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S were likely consulted  on the 
design of the kitchen  and that would, I think,  have included discussions about what  extractor  
was to be installed. 
Mr and Mrs S say that the original plinth heater they had was operated by a remote  control, 
the new one isnt. Ageas says it wasnt aware the old one had a remote device. It says that 
such is unusual. Ive seen  a picture  of the front of the old device   Im not persuaded from 
this that it likely could  be operated by a remote.  
Ref: DRN683024910money owed
I said provisionally:
Mr and Mrs S say money wasnt paid to them in good time. I can see it did take a while for 
anything other than interim payments to be made. However, I can also see that Ageas asked 
at the outset for proof  of costs and it didnt get anything in this respect for quite a long time. 
From what  Ive seen, and taking into account the limits available on the policy,  I think Ageas 
has paid all it can reasonably be expected  to.
On that note I know Mr and Mrs S were in hotel  accommodation for a long time. However, 
I can see that initial attempts to move them were rejected.  Mr S said it was better for him and 
Mrs S to be in a hotel, or alternately  Ageas should  arrange for Mrs S to be put in a care 
home so he could assist  more with the claim. I know repairs also took far longer than they 
should have done but I am persuaded by what Ive seen that Mr and Mrs S werent  always  
able to keep  to appointments and this did delay the claim. So Im not minded to think, even if 
proof of unpaid outlay  was shown by Mr and Mrs S, that Ageas should make  further  
payments to them beyond  the policy limits in place (and already exhausted).
Mr and Mrs S made no comment in this respect.  My view hasnt changed. These findings 
now form part of my final decision.
general claim handling
I said provisionally:
I know this has been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs S. But I can also see that Ageas, via its 
loss adjusters and contractors, has tried to move the claim forwards as best it could. Having 
considered its file of papers  I can see activity was constantly occurring and that the claim 
wasnt left to fall inactive for long periods  of time (as I see in some complaints). I think  
communication at times could have been better but I think it would always have  been  very 
difficult to respond to every contact made by Mr and Mrs S.
Ageas did ask for proof of accommodation costs at the outset and with nothing  being 
received Im not persuaded  Ageas could reasonably have been expected to pay more at an 
earlier date. I think Ageas  did the best it could regarding providing furniture for the rental 
property. Having a property like your home doesnt  necessarily mean youll get everything  
exactly as at home. But I see that where problems with necessities  were identified  Ageas 
acted quickly to try and resolve these; contacting every supplier it could just a few days  
before Christmas.
I appreciate its been unpleasant for Mr and Mrs S living  with carpets that arent like what  
they had before but I think Ageas acted prudently  and pragmatically to get the insured work 
finished and the family  home.  And Ive said above  I think its settlement fairly resolved its 
liability for the contents claim. I also didnt find that Ageas had failed Mr and Mrs S regarding  
the other issues discussed in more detail above either.
So whilst I understand this has been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs S, Im not persuaded that 
Ageas has made things  worse for them. Im not persuaded its added to their distress and 
inconvenience. Therefore, Im not going to make  it pay any compensation to them.
Ref: DRN683024911Mr and Mrs S said theyve  spoken to the official body for insurers  and been told Ageas 
hasnt acted fairly or reasonably so they cant understand  why Ive found differently. Im not 
sure who Mr and Mrs S have spoken  to but this service is the official  body for considering 
complaints about  insurers. Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  has come to me as the final stage of 
the complaints  process and Ive considered all of the evidence provided from both sides  to 
reach my conclusions. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S have  a different view of things but 
I remain satisfied by the views Ive set out provisionally and finally in this document.  
renewal
In response to my provisional findings  Mr and Mrs S raised  a new issue about renewal. They 
said theyd been  told to renew  their cover whilst their home was unoccupied  but theyve 
since learned this advice was wrong. They think Ageas should  have  told them  it wasnt  
needed. The renewal  cost them around  £600.  
Whilst I dont doubt  that Mr and Mrs S believe Ageas should  have  advised  them  differently, 
Im not persuade  this is the case. Im not sure of the source of the advice Mr and Mrs S 
received about  cover  not having  been needed.  But usually if a home  is unoccupied buildings 
cover at least will still be required; whilst sometimes the extent of cover  is reduced to reflect 
the unoccupancy this doesnt necessarily result  in a cheaper premium being charged. 
Overall Im not persuaded  that Ageas most  likely failed to advise Mr and Mrs S appropriately 
or caused them to take out unnecessary cover, so Im not going to make Ageas do anything.
my final decision
Im not minded  to uphold  this complaint. I dont intend to make  any award against Ageas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6830249