K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs E took out a PPI policy to cover  a mortgage in 2001. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.
I issued a provisional decision saying I wasnt planning to uphold  the complaint. Neither 
Mr and Mrs E nor Bank  of Scotland had anything further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.  Ive decided not to uphold  
Mr and Mrs Es complaint because:
Mr and Mrs E applied  for the mortgage  through an independent mortgage broker.  Bank  
of Scotland says they purchased the PPI following a phone call, after which a quote  and 
application form was sent to them  copies of which  theyve provided.
Mr and Mrs E say the PPI was added without their knowledge. And it was only after they 
noticed it that they spoke with Bank of Scotland and were told they should take it 
otherwise their mortgage may not be approved. They  decided  that for the sake  of £21 
per month  they may as well keep the PPI to ensure  they got the mortgage.
The PPI started on the day the mortgage completed (the day Mr and Mrs E purchased 
their home). This was 22 June 2001.  Bank  of Scotland issued  the quotation and 
application form on 29 May 2001, and required the application form to be signed and 
returned. So Mr and Mrs E must  have  agreed to the PPI between those dates. Its 
unclear exactly when they agreed to it, because  Bank of Scotland  no longer holds 
evidence of this. So I dont know if this was before  or after Bank  of Scotland had 
approved the mortgage. Mr and Mrs E say it was before.
While  that may be right, it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Es recollection is to some 
extent inaccurate. This is because I dont think the PPI quotation and application form 
wouldve been  issued  before the initial phone conversation about PPI. The application 
form is printed with answers  to questions about,  for example,  Mr and Mrs Es health. 
That information wasnt provided in the mortgage  application, so it seems likely  to have 
been supplied  in the initial  phone call about  PPI. So I dont think  its likely  that the PPI 
was added without  their knowledge  and they only noticed it later. I think they were 
provided information about  it  including the quote and application form, and that they 
agreed to take it out. And that it didnt start until later, when  the mortgage completed.
Ref: DRN63369252Mr and Mrs E have said it was implied that without the PPI they may not get their mortgage. 
I dont know what  was said in the phone call or calls with Bank of Scotland,  as there is no 
call recording  available. But looking at the other evidence  that is available,  such as the PPI 
quotation, the PPI application form and the policy document,  theres nothing to suggest that 
having PPI or not would impact a mortgage application.  Given  the inaccuracies  in Mr and 
Mrs Es recollection of events, I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable for me to uphold 
this complaint purely on the basis of what theyve  said.  I appreciate they will be 
disappointed by this, but Ive not found  anything else that supports their allegation.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E. The PPI wouldve paid 50% of 
their monthly mortgage repayment, plus some extra  to help with bills, for up to 24 months 
if either  of them had been off sick or made redundant   and 100% if theyd both been 
unable to work.  This is far longer than either of them  wouldve received sick pay for, and 
wouldve ensured  they didnt fall behind  with repayments  and risk losing their home. And it 
wouldve saved  them from having  to rely on their parents  for help. So it seems to have  
been right for them based on what Ive been  told about  their circumstances at the time.
The cost of the policy was shown  on the quotation and the application form. So I think 
Mr and Mrs E wouldve understood  how much  they would need to pay for PPI before  
they agreed to take it.
Its possible that Bank  of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover.
But Mr and Mrs E dont  appear to have  been  affected by any of those things. So I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped them taking the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Es comments, including  what  theyve said about  Mr E 
having death in service  cover through his work. But these points dont change my 
conclusion. Death in service cover would only pay out a lump  sum on Mr Es death  so it 
wouldnt have helped  if hed been  off sick or made  redundant.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6336925