K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr and 
Mrs W say The Co-operative Bank  Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op responded reiterating its request for evidence from Mr Ws GP of his medical  
condition and the date of diagnosis. It says information about  the medical condition wasnt 
disclosed to them at the point of sale, and that if Mr W was only diagnosed in January 2007 
then he wouldve been covered by the policy for this condition. 
Ive thought carefully about Co-ops  comments.  But, as Ive said in my provisional  decision, 
the policy term in question doesnt  say that only diagnosed conditions  are excluded  it 
reads wider than this and excludes any condition, injury, illness, disease,  sickness  or related 
condition and/or associated symptoms, whether diagnosed or not which you knew  about or 
should have known about at the commencement  date. So regardless of whether Mr W had 
been diagnosed at the commencement date,  Im persuaded he had visited a doctor  and had 
been prescribed medication which specifically treats the medical condition in question before 
the commencement of the policy. In short, I am persuaded by what  Mr W has told us about 
his medical condition, and do not feel its necessary to request medical  evidence  from Mr W 
to demonstrate the date of his diagnosis. 
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said,  but I see no reason to change  
my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require The Co-operative  Bank Plc to pay redress  as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019. 
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68703602copy of provisional decision
Mr and Mrs W have complained that The Co-operative  Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage with Co-op which started on 23 January  2007.  The PPI policy 
started on the same date. The policy covered Mr W only.
Our adjudicator upheld this case.  They  didnt think Co-op  had given Mr and Mrs W enough  
information about the key terms and conditions of the policy. And they didnt think  Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve bought the policy  if theyd been given  better information.
Co-op did not accept the adjudicators opinion  so the case has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ref: DRN68703603I intend  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because I dont think Co-op gave them clear enough 
information about the policy when they sold it to them.
I can see that the policy  wouldnt cover existing medical  conditions, related conditions or associated 
symptoms which Mr and Mrs W knew about or should have known about at the commencement 
date.
Mr W sent us medical records which  shows  he had visited his doctor and been prescribed medication 
to treat a medical  condition in early  January 2007. So I think the most  likely cause of any future need 
for Mr W to claim on the policy wouldnt be covered  significantly reducing  the usefulness  of the 
policy for Mr and Mrs W.
Co-op shouldve drawn this key exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ws attention before they bought
the policy.  And I dont think it did this.
The application form Mr and Mrs W completed didnt  make them aware that the policy had exclusions 
and limitations  that they should be aware of. I can see Mr and Mrs W appear to have been asked 
questions about their health  at the time such as, had they undergone any major surgical operations in 
the last six months or had they consulted  their doctor in the past
12 months. But from what I can see Co-op didnt  tell them why this was important or what  
conditions/symptoms might  not be covered under the policy.
I do think that a term excluding pre-existing conditions  and symptoms  is a key term that needed  to 
have been brought to Mr and Mrs Ws attention before they agreed to buy the policy. And I cant see 
that Co-op did this in either its application form or the additional documentation  it gave to Mr and Mrs 
W. I dont think giving Mr and Mrs W a copy of the full policy  document is enough to meet its 
obligations to draw  their attention to the major exclusions in the policy.  So I dont think  Co-op  met its 
obligations to provide Mr and Mrs W with clear, fair and not misleading information.
Ive thought carefully about  Co-ops comments that it requires GP evidence to confirm the date Mr W 
was diagnosed with this condition  so it can decide whether this was classed as a pre-existing medical 
condition or not. It says the information it has received  confirms Mr W had visited the doctor but it 
doesn't give the date a condition was diagnosed.
But this term doesnt  say that only diagnosed  conditions are excluded  it reads  wider  than this and 
excludes any condition, injury, illness, disease, sickness or related condition and/or associated  
symptoms, whether diagnosed or not which you knew about or should have known about at the 
commencement date. So regardless of whether Mr W had been diagnosed at the commencement 
date, he had visited a doctor and had been prescribed medication which  specifically treats the 
medical condition in question  before the commencement of the policy.
So I think its unlikely  Mr W wouldve been able to claim on the policy  for this condition. And given  Mr 
W had visited  the doctor and received treatment in relation to this condition, I think  its likely  this 
condition wouldve been  at the forefront of his mind. Overall, I dont think
Mr and Mrs W wouldve chosen to take the insurance had they known  Mr Ws medical  condition 
wouldnt be covered.
what Co-op should  do to put things right
Co-op should  put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out PPI.
The policy should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and Co-op should:
-Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
-Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
- If Mr and Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Co-op  can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.
Ref: DRN68703604 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Co-op to take off tax from this interest. Co-op must  give
Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
Overall, having considered  all the evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set out above,  I 
currently do not intend  to uphold this complaint.
Both parties now have until the date set out above to provide me with new information and/or 
arguments before I consider  the complaint again for a final decision.
Ref: DRN6870360