K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited, a broker,  charged him an 
additional premium  in relation to his motor  insurance policy  and took payment from his 
wifes, Mrs Ms, credit  card.  
background
In March 2017, Mr C took out a motor insurance policy and Mrs M was a named driver. 
The statement  of insurance says that Mrs M had a provisional licence and that shed passed 
her test in February 2016. Those statements  are obviously contradictory. I understand that 
Mrs M did in fact have a full licence  when the 2017 policy was taken out. 
The policy renewed  automatically in March 2018  and the schedule  of insurance showed that 
the policy had an endorsement in relation to a provisional licence.   
Following the reporting  of an accident in August 2018, the insurer told One Call that the 
named driver had a full UK licence, not a provisional  licence. The insurer  asked for an 
additional premium  of £551.82.  
One Call waived its administration fee but took a payment from the credit card it had on file. 
Mr C says that hes sold the car and the policy was cancelled  in November 2018. One Call 
says that, as theres an outstanding claim on the policy, the insurer  has charged  the full 
premium and theres an outstanding balance to pay.  
Mr C says that he doesnt owe anything and it doesnt make sense that a provisional licence 
holder is charged  a lower premium than a driver  with a full licence. He complains that
One Call took payment  from Mrs Ms credit card. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened. She thought that One Call had dealt 
with Mr Cs complaint fairly.  The adjudicator said that Mr C should  have  given One Call 
accurate information.  She said that as One Call isnt the insurer,  she couldnt comment on 
the additional premium that was requested. The adjudicator didnt think that One Call was 
wrong to take the payment, as Mr C had authorised a continuous payment authority. 
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said that thered been a breach of contract here.  
Mr C said that hed paid One Call more than it had asked  for, so he shouldnt have to pay 
any more. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Call is a broker, not an insurer, so it doesnt set the premium.  If Mr C wishes  to pursue a 
complaint against  the insurer about the additional  premium hes been  asked  to pay, he 
should complain  to the insurer in the first instance. I see that the adjudicator has previously 
given Mr C some information about  this. If Mr C doesnt accept  the insurers response, he 
can complain to this service. 
Ref: DRN65544342I dont think that One Call was at fault in taking a payment for part of the additional premium. 
Mr C had agreed to a continuous  payment  authority and One Call says that it debited  the 
account in accordance with the continuous payment authority. 
I appreciate that this decision  doesnt address Mr Cs prime concern but, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  uphold his complaint against One Call. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6554434