K821x#15complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Advantage Insurance Company Limited increased the premium for her 
motor insurance policy  when it established she had answered a question on the application 
form incorrectly. Due to the nature of the information, she feels  that she is being 
discriminated against.
background
In 2016 Ms B bought  a new car. She took out a policy  with Advantage via an aggregator  
website. She chose the policy  as it was the cheapest available  to her, although she was not 
happy with the cost at £529.49.
Three weeks later Ms B was contacted  by Advantage and told that she needed to pay an 
additional premium  and an administration fee. This was because  she had incorrectly 
documented her date of residency in the UK when shes  applied  for the policy.  She had to 
pay an additional £137, taking the premium to £666.49. 
Ms B has said that she wouldnt  have  taken the policy  had she known this would be the 
premium, given it was more than she paid for the car. She has also said that she feels  she 
was discriminated against because of her race.
Advantage has confirmed to this service that the premium increased because  the length of 
Ms Bs residency in the UK and the amount of no-claims discount were  both less. It 
confirmed that it doesnt  factor into its risk assessment a persons place of birth or 
nationality. What it does  factor  in is the length  of their permanent  residency in the UK, as its 
claims experience shows that the shorter the residency the higher the average  cost to it.
Ms B cancelled the policy and had to pay a £45 cancellation fee to do so. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld.  He 
didnt think that Advantage had discriminated against Ms B and thought that the mistake  with 
the residency  date was probably  due to Ms B not exercising reasonable care when 
completing the questions. That said, he considered  that under the law, an insurer isnt 
allowed retrospectively to charge an additional premium. It was this additional premium that 
caused Ms B to cancel her policy. As such,  we considered that the cancellation charge 
should be refunded.
Advantage didnt  accept  the adjudicators conclusions.  It said that the relevant  law was silent 
on the matter of a cancellation fee being charged. It said that we had interpreted this silence 
as such a charge  being prohibited. Advantage felt that this was a narrow  interpretation and 
disagrees with it. Referral  to an ombudsman was requested.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear to me that the information contained  in the application that went through to 
Advantage was wrong. Ms B was asked by the comparison website How  long have you 
lived in the UK?. She had the option  of since birth or entering a date.  It was explained 
Ref: DRN66843072alongside the question that Insurers will be interested in how experienced you are with 
driving on UK roads. 
Ms B selected since birth, which was clearly wrong. However, given that when she used 
other composition sites to get quotes  she input the correct date, it appears that the mistake 
was likely to have been inadvertent. Advantage appears to have come to the same  
conclusion.
Ms B thinks that Advantage charging  a higher premium to someone who hasnt lived in the 
UK since birth is discriminatory. I can understand why she has come to that conclusion, but I 
dont agree that it is discrimination.
When setting premiums  insurers  will consider what the likelihood is of a particular  consumer 
making a claim and how much they are likely to have to pay out if a claim is made. Insurers  
decide what risk factors  they are willing  to insure and determine how those  factors  are going  
to be viewed and ultimately priced. Different insurers will look at different situations in their 
own individual way. It is essentially  a matter of commercial judgement  and that is not 
something that we would usually look to interfere with.
I can understand why Ms B thinks its unfair for Advantage to charge a higher premium to 
someone who hasnt  lived in the UK since birth. However, as the notes on the website 
indicated, some insurers take into account a consumers experience of UK roads. There  is 
nothing wrong  with an insurer considering whether someone falls into a higher risk grouping.  
I note that Advantage doesnt calculate its premium based on where a consumer was born;  
only how long they have lived in the UK. So the consideration  isnt one of race or nationality. 
It appears that Advantage treated Ms B in the same way it treated others in similar 
circumstances who fall into the same risk grouping,  so I dont think  it acted  in a 
discriminatory way or unreasonably. 
I will now consider Advantages actions  following  its discovery of the misrepresentation. 
There is legislation; the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations)  Act 2012 
(CIDRA), which  sets out what an insurer can do in such a situation.  It says that an insurer 
may:
cancel the policy; or
tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied). But if the consumer isnt 
happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy themselves. 
In the situation  where the insurer  seeks to cancel the policy, it would be required to refund 
any premiums  paid for term of the contract  going forwards. In other words, the insurer is 
entitled to take payment for the period the consumer had benefited from insurance. The rest 
of the premium paid must be refunded. No leeway is given for the deduction  of cancellation 
fees from this refund.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to charge an additional premium. However, if the insurer 
explains the problem  and gives the consumer  the option of paying an additional premium for 
full cover to be restored, we would  consider  that a reasonable approach. 
However, that isnt what happened in this case. Ms B was only given the option of paying  an 
increased premium or cancelling the policy. This wasnt compliant with CIDRA. I cant say for 
Ref: DRN66843073certain what Ms B would  have chosen  to do had Advantage offered her the options she 
should have had presented to her. Clearly the amount of premium was important to Ms B 
and I think it is possible that she would have opted  to continue the policy on a proportionate 
basis rather than cancel  it. In that situation Ms B wouldnt have had to pay the cancellation  
fee Advantage charged her.
In summary,  Advantage didnt comply  with the requirements of the applicable legislation  in 
this case as it didnt  allow Ms B all of the options that should have been available to her. 
Advantage also didnt refund the entire  premium  not used to provide cover  up to the point of 
cancellation. It is also not clear whether, had Advantage complied with legislation, Ms B 
would have cancelled  the policy. In the particular circumstances  of this case, I consider it 
would be appropriate  for Advantage to refund  to Ms B the cancellation charge.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Advantage to refund charges and fees 
as detailed in my above findings. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am 
required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before  28 April 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6684307