K820x#14Complaint
Mr N complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc blocked and closed his account without 
explanation. He also says NatWest gave  him conflicting information about  the withdrawal of 
his remaining balances.  He says this all caused  him distress and inconvenience and wants 
NatWest to pay him compensation.
Background
Mr N had a current and savings account  with NatWest.
On 8 October 2018, NatWest reviewed Mr Ns accounts. Whilst it carried out its review it 
placed a block  on the accounts.  This meant Mr N couldnt access the money  in his accounts 
or make any transactions out of the accounts.  At the time of the block  the balance of Mr Ns 
savings account  was just over £1,200.  And his current  account  balance was £2.00.
On 9 October 2018, NatWest wrote to Mr N to let him know it had decided to close his 
accounts and gave him 14 days  notice  to make alternative banking arrangements.  NatWest 
also asked Mr N to complete a form so that it could arrange for any funds in his accounts  to 
be transferred to a new account, once it had completed its review. And said that further 
checks on the remaining  balances would take between 28-60 days  for it to complete. 
On 12 October 2018, Mr Ns salary was paid into his current account.  On 17 October  2018,  
Mr N withdrew  the balance from his current account.  On 9 November 2018,  he withdrew the 
balance of his savings account.  
Mr N says he has operated his account properly for several years and hasnt done anything  
wrong. He says the block on his accounts caused him a great  deal of stress and 
inconvenience. In particular, he says direct debits  were cancelled which meant his car tax 
wasnt paid. So, he couldnt  use his car for work. Hes also explained he had to borrow 
money from work colleagues  to pay for everyday  expenses,  which was embarrassing  and 
upsetting. 
Mr N has explained that NatWest gave him conflicting information  about accessing the 
remaining balances in his accounts. He says NatWest  told him that he could  visit a branch 
with ID and access the money in his account. But when he visited  the branch  staff told him 
he wouldnt  be able to withdraw any money  because  his accounts were  frozen.  Mr N says he 
then rang NatWest to try and find out when his money would be released. But he says 
NatWest were rude, unhelpful and eventually put the phone down on him. 
Mr N complained to the bank. NatWest said it hadnt  done  anything wrong. And it had 
blocked and then closed Mr Ns account in line with the account terms and conditions. Mr N 
wasnt happy with this response. He wants NatWest  to apologise  and give him an 
explanation for why it blocked and then closed  his accounts. He also wants  NatWest to pay 
him compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused. 
An investigator looked at Mr Ns complaint. He said NatWest hadnt  done anything wrong 
when it blocked  and closed Mr Ns account. The investigator couldnt find any evidence that 
NatWest had given  Mr N conflicting information  about accessing the remaining balance in 
his accounts.  And said NatWest had given him a clear timeline of how long its review  would 
take to complete when it wrote to Mr N in October  2018. Mr N disagreed. Hes still upset by 
Ref: DRN60253012what happened and wants NatWest to provide him with a proper explanation about why it 
blocked his accounts.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr N has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. I appreciate Mr N is upset  that NatWest blocked and closed his account. And that 
this has caused  him inconvenience. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied 
that the bank has done  something wrong. And in this case, I dont think  it has. Ill explain 
why. 
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation (which  includes the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000, the Proceeds  of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering Regulations 
2017 and the Financial  Conduct Authoritys financial crime requirements, place extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses to verify a customers  identity, establish the 
purpose and nature  of the business  relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. NatWest has 
said that Mr Ns account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Mr N says he hasnt done anything which would cause NatWest  to block and then close his 
accounts. And that may be the case. But  as Ive already explained businesses have a legal 
obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at the information  
NatWest relied upon, Im satisfied that the bank was complying with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when  it blocked Mr Ns accounts. So, I cant say it has done anything wrong. The 
terms and conditions of Mr Ns accounts  also permit NatWest to block  an account. Having 
considered those terms, Im satisfied  NatWest acted in line with them.  
The terms and conditions  of the accounts  which both NatWest and Mr N had to comply 
with also say that it could close the accounts  immediately. I can see that NatWest wrote  to 
Mr N on 9 October 2018, to let him know it was closing his accounts, and gave him 14 days  
to make alternative banking arrangements. It also told him that it would take the bank 
between 28 and 60 days to finish its review of the fund in his accounts. I note that NatWest 
completed its review within 32 days,  which was within the timeframe communicated to Mr N.
So, I think NatWest kept Mr N informed  about what it was doing and more importantly how 
long things were  likely to take. And it gave him enough time to make  alternative banking 
arrangements. So, its entitled to close Mr Ns accounts as its already done.
 
I know Mr N is frustrated that he hasnt been  given a proper explanation why his accounts  
were blocked and then closed. But under the terms and conditions NatWest doesnt  have  to 
give a reason for doing so  in the same  way a customer doesnt have to, should  they no 
longer want to bank  with them. So, I cant say NatWest  has done anything  wrong  by not 
giving Mr N this information  as much  as hed like to know.
Mr N says NatWest  told him he would be able to access his balance  if he went into a branch  
with some identification. And he visited a branch twice to try and get his funds. But each time 
he went into branch staff told him his account  was frozen, so no money could be released.  
Ref: DRN60253013Mr N also says that when  he called NatWest the account closure team  were  rude to him and 
unhelpful. 
I fully accept that Mr N is upset about  whats  happened  and I recognise  the strength of his 
feelings, but I must base my decision on evidence. Ive listened to the available calls Mr N 
had with NatWest  on 10 October 2018,  and I cant say the call handlers were  rude, 
dismissive or unhelpful to him. On the contrary,  I found that they were  polite, listened to Mr N 
and tried to be helpful in suggesting solutions to the issues he raised. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that NatWest gave Mr N conflicting  information about accessing his remaining  
balance.
I know Mr N says that his car tax direct debit was cancelled, which meant  he couldnt use his 
car for work. But from looking at his account statements I can see that his monthly car tax 
direct debit left his account on 1 October 2018, which was before his accounts  were blocked. 
And from looking at the direct debit frequency, it wasnt due until the beginning of November 
2018. I note Mr N was able to access his salary  on 17 October  2018,  so I think  
Mr N wouldve had enough  time to make  alternative  arrangements, to make  sure the 
November payment for his car tax was paid. And despite being  asked  by our investigator,  
Mr N hasnt provided any information about other direct debits which  were  cancelled. So, I 
cant consider this point  further.  
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr N feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  and worrying time. And I realise  Mr N will be disappointed by my decision, 
but overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say NatWest  have acted unreasonably 
and treated Mr N unfairly when it blocked  and closed his accounts. So, Im not going to ask 
them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6025301