K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about incorrect information that Equifax Limited  has recorded on his credit 
file. 
background
Mr L complained to Equifax as it had not changed  the address for one of his bank accounts. 
Mr L was asked to provide information he had already provided.  Mr L is not happy that 
Equifax has not updated his address when he has asked it to do this. 
Equifax said it was using  information given to it by Mr Ls bank.  Mr L should contact  his bank 
to make sure it had his correct address. 
Mr L was not happy with the response  by Equifax. Mr L says he should not have to provide 
this information when  Equifax already has it. Mr L is very unhappy that Equifax will not 
change his credit  file unless he sends in information  it already has. Mr L brought a complaint 
to us to consider. 
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She noted  that Mr 
L did not hold a report with Equifax.  The report with the incorrect information is held by a 
different credit scoring company (company X). Equifax relies on financial bodies  providing  
them with up to date and accurate information.  The investigator  recommended that Mr L 
provides Equifax with a copy of the report which has the incorrect  address. 
The investigator suggested Mr L should also check with his bank to make sure they had 
updated his report correctly. Mr L should ask the credit reference company that holds the 
incorrect information to contact his bank.  
Mr L is not happy to accept the investigators recommendation. He says he would like an 
ombudsman to review the difficulty he experienced in dealing  with Equifax. It did not explain 
the position properly  to him. The bank  holds his correct address. It will tell him he needs to 
contact Equifax. Mr L cannot obtain  a copy of his Equifax report  as it is done online.  
The investigator replied to say that she needed to see the report with the incorrect 
information. Without this, she could not say that Equifax have done anything wrong.
Mr L holds  a credit report with company X and not with Equifax.  Mr L should check 
if his Equifax  credit report contains  his incorrect address.  If this is the case then 
Equifax will have  to contact the bank and change  it. Without an actual report from 
Equifax,  the investigator could not find that Equifax has done anything wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equifax is a credit reporting agency that is it reports on information provided to it by 
financial bodies,  but its not responsible for creating that information. For that reason if 
theres an issue with the information reported  then the consumer will usually need to 
resolve this direct  with the business that provided the information as Equifax cant 
change it without their agreement. In Mr Ls case,  his bank  is providing the information  
which Equifax  is reporting. Equifax could not change Mr Ls address without the 
Ref: DRN66663112permission of his bank. Its up to the reporting  business to ensure  the information it passes 
on is correct.
 
As the investigator has pointed out, we have not seen a copy of Mr Ls credit report 
which he says contains the incorrect  address for one of his bank  accounts.
Equifax has asked  Mr L to contact his bank to check it holds his correct address. If this is 
the case, Equifax can then raise  a data dispute. Mr L has said his bank  does  have his up 
to date address. Mr L should  provide this confirmation  to Equifax. He should also make 
sure his bank has updated the information it has provided to credit reference agencies. 
Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence to show that Equifax has acted incorrectly  in 
its dealings  with Mr L. It has said it will raise  a data dispute  when he provides confirmation  
that his bank holds  his correct address. I cannot expect it to do more until it has this 
information. Ultimately the responsibility  for the wrong information sits with Mr Ls bank.
Overall, Im not persuaded  Equifax has treated Mr L unreasonably or unfairly.  So, I cant  
reasonably require it to do anything further. I appreciate  this is frustrating for Mr L and I 
understand this isnt the outcome he wanted. But, as I have noted  Equifax has offered to 
review any further information  or evidence Mr L is able to supply and I think that seems 
reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ls complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6666311