K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Honda  Finance 
Europe Plc (Honda  Finance) was misrepresented to him.
background
Mr S took receipt of a new car in March 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Honda Finance. 
He paid for a premium pack which was to include front and rear mud flaps.  But when he 
collected the car it was explained  that his model had side skirts  which meant the front mud 
flaps would  not fit properly. The back ones didnt fit very well either. Mr S says the dealership  
promised him that when  the correct mud flaps became available  they would fit them  for him. 
But Mr S subsequently found out that the manufacturer had no intention of ever making mud 
flaps available for his model of car.
So Mr S asked Honda Finance to allow him to reject his vehicle. But they refused. They said 
that although the mud flaps werent supplied  for this model  they did serve the purpose they 
were intended  for and that Mr S had been accepting of this when he collected  the car. They  
explained that the dealership were  prepared to replace the mud flaps if and when  model 
specific versions came available.
Mr S was disappointed with their response  so he referred his complaint to this service  and 
our adjudicator provided an opinion. He noted  that the dealer had admitted in an email to 
Mr S that the mud flaps were important to him and that they would not fit this model of car. 
He viewed the photographs Mr S had provided  and noted that neither the front or the rear 
flaps fitted correctly and he thought it would have been reasonable to have warned Mr S 
about this before he took ownership of the vehicle.  He therefore thought  the car had been  
misrepresented to Mr S and he thought  Honda Finance should allow him to reject it, refund 
his deposit and pay him £100 to compensate him for the inconvenience hed experienced.
Honda Finance  didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion. They said Mr S had initially  
complained about other issues and it took five months before he complained to them about 
the mud flaps.  So they suggested the mud flaps werent important to him and that he would 
have proceeded  with the deal regardless. They explained  that the dealership had told Mr S 
the flaps werent the correct ones and that hed signed a form when he took receipt of the 
vehicle to say hed inspected the car and found no defects. So Honda Finance asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Honda Finance so please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN69698412Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  have  been  
misrepresented to Mr S. If it was, and if Mr S would  not have proceeded with the deal 
otherwise, then Id  think Honda Finance were responsible and Id ask them  to take some  
action to put things right.
I think its clear  that mud flaps were  never  available for this model of car and as Mr S had 
selected the premium  pack which included them I think it was incumbent on Honda Finance 
to inform him they werent available. Otherwise  he would not get what  he was paying for.
The email  communication  Mr S had with the dealership confirms that the dealership  knew  
that mud flaps were an important consideration for him and that they didnt fit the car. So I 
think theres evidence  Mr S didnt get what he wanted and that the mud flaps were important 
to him and he probably would not have  proceeded with the deal otherwise.
So I think its most likely the deal was misrepresented to Mr S. 
Im not persuaded by Honda Finances  arguments.  I agree that Mr S was told the mud 
guards didnt fit and that he drove  the car away. But I dont think this is proof  he accepted  the 
situation. Nor do I think the inspection he signed  suggests he accepted the mud flaps  that 
were fitted.  I prefer Mr Ss explanation that he was promised new ones  would be provided 
when available  as I can see that position  is supported in the correspondence  he had with the 
dealership. Im also not persuaded  by the argument that he referred the complaint after five 
months. I think  the delay  was probably  because Mr S was waiting for confirmation from the 
manufacturer that mud flaps would never become available. And when he got that 
confirmation he made the complaint.
So I think Honda Finance should  allow the rejection of the car and in those  circumstances 
they should refund any deposit and pay interest on that deposit because  Mr S has been 
deprived of that money through the misrepresentation.
Its clear hes also experienced  some  inconvenience here and Id agree with the 
adjudicators suggestion  that, in the circumstances, Honda Finance should  pay £100  
compensation.
Ref: DRN69698413my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Honda  Finance Europe Plc 
to:
terminate the finance  agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr S;
refund  any deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
pay £100 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6969841