K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
BOS has provided a copy of Mr Ms signed  credit card application which has a printed 
cross in the box next to credit card repayments  cover. From what I know  of how BOS 
sold policies around  this time, I think its likely  the printed  cross wouldve only been  
added after Mr M confirmed he wanted  PPI. And, in my view,  this is supported by there 
being no cross  in the box to request card protection.  So overall I think its most likely that 
BOS made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although as Im looking at events from so long ago I can understand why he cant  
remember this.
BOS recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And I 
think it wouldve  provided  useful  should  he have had to stop working suddenly. 
Its possible  the information BOS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  For example, the costs of the policy couldve  been set out clearer.  But 
Mr M chose to take the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover  in the first place. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said. But Im afraid that these points  dont change  
my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything  
Mr M paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mr M back  some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand BOS  has already paid this to Mr M. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ref: DRN67535862ombudsman
Ref: DRN6753586