K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Santander UK plc didnt follow her instruction to set up a standing 
order on her current account.
background
In October  2017 Miss F asked Santander  to set up a standing  order to pay £300 from her 
current account to an account with another  provider. In December 2018 she checked her 
other account and found the payments hadnt been  made. Miss F told Santander shed now 
unknowingly spent  the funds which had been intended for a specific purpose, and that shed 
lost out on interest  which would  have accrued on them. She raised a complaint. 
Santander accepted it hadnt  followed Miss Fs instruction.  It apologised for its error  and 
offered Miss F £100 compensation for trouble and upset shed been caused. Miss F didnt 
think that was enough  to put things right, so she brought a complaint to this service.  
Our investigator considered what had happened. Overall she said that Miss F reasonably  
ought to have noticed that the payment  hadnt  been set up, so she thought  that £100 
compensation was fair for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
Miss F didnt agree. She said that the account  the funds were meant to be paid to wasnt a 
current account, so she doesnt check those statements. She said that £100  wasnt enough 
compensation, so the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for the same  reason. Ill explain why.
Its understandable  that Miss F was disappointed to find that the standing  order shed 
requested had not been set up. However,  Miss F has had the benefit of the funds in question 
 they werent  sent to the wrong account,  for example. 
Miss F says she unknowingly spent  the funds and lost out on interest she could  have 
earned. To make an award for this, Id need  to be persuaded that it was reasonable Miss F 
did not notice  that the payments werent  being  made.
Miss Fs current  account statements show she regularly made a variety  of transactions  on 
that account between October 2017  and December 2018. I believe the nature and frequency  
of the transactions Miss F made  in that period would suggest that she monitored  that 
account. In addition, Miss F told our investigator  that she would have noticed the missing 
payments if theyd been intended to go into her current account. So I think  she ought to have 
noticed that those payments were not being  made from that account.
Given all of the above, I think its fair to say that there was enough information available  for 
Miss F to reasonably have noticed  that the payments in question were not being made from 
the outset. For that reason, I dont think Santander  needs to pay Miss F any of the funds 
back, or compensate her for any interest she says shes lost out on. 
Ref: DRN60406512However, I do agree that Santander should pay Miss F compensation for the 
disappointment, trouble and upset  caused  by not following her instruction. All things 
considered, I think that that the £100  Santander  offered  is reasonable in the circumstances. 
So it follows  that Im not going to ask it to do anything  further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that Santander UK Plcs offer of £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable. If it hasnt already done so, it should now pay this to 
Miss F.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019. 
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6040651