K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr S says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr S was sold this PPI policy (named Mortgage Repayments Cover), as part of a package  
called Total Mortgage Payments Protection  (TMPP). TMPP offered a package of cover, 
but Ive only considered the PPI elements in my decision  as thats what was complained  
about. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Due to the time thats passed since this sale took place, not all of the paperwork is 
now available for me to consider. As Mr S has said himself, he cant  provide call 
recordings or similar evidence - and it wouldnt be reasonable  to expect him to do so.
In situations like this Ive to decide, on balance, based on the available  evidence, as 
well as what we know more widely, what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened at the time of sale. 
Ive considered what we know  more widely about  Halifax sold this type of PPI around  
the time Mr S took out this policy as theyve shown  us the types of documents  they 
normally used as part of their sales process.  
I havent seen  evidence that they didnt follow their normal sales process and I think  
that its more likely than not that Mr S was made aware that PPI was optional  
before he agreed  to take it out. 
Although Mr S has said that he felt pressured  into taking PPI, Ive not seen evidence 
to back up what hes said. I accept that its possible as this policy was sold in a 
meeting where  Halifax were making  a recommendation to take PPI that the adviser  
might have said that Mr S should take PPI. But this is very different to them saying 
that he had to take PPI. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN61583092Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about not needing the 
PPI and being made redundant after the sale. But for the following reasons,  I still think  that 
the recommendation to take PPI was suitable and that the policy was right for Mr S:
Mr S may have been  entitled to six months  sick pay, but this policy could have paid 
out for up to 24 months. 
The described redundancy situation took place  a few years  after the sale. Even  when 
Ive considered the amount of Mr Ss redundancy entitlement being  similar  or slightly 
less at the point  of sale, it still only equates to just over one year worth of his after tax 
salary. But this PPI policy could have paid out for up to 24 months for an 
unemployment claim.
Ive noted what  Mr S has said about getting  a witness  account  from the person who sold the 
policy. Whilst Halifax hasnt submitted this as part of their evidence, I still feel that Ive 
enough evidence  to be able to make  a decision.  
This means  that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax  doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr S paid for it. But Halifax has already  offered to give Mr S back some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr S, if it hasnt already done so, now Ive issued my 
final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6158309