K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained that his boiler  was damaged by engineers who were sent to carry out 
repairs under his Home  Emergency Cover  policy.  He says the additional damaged  caused 
led to the boiler  being declared beyond economic  repair (BER).  Mr Cs Home Emergency  
Cover policy  was underwritten by Acromas Insurance Company Limited, so in this decision I 
will refer to the business that hes complaining about  as Acromas. Mr C is represented in 
his complaint by his mother, Miss D, who also resides at the property.  Mr Cs also unhappy  
about the customer service he received, including not having calls returned when promised 
and being left without hot water or heating for days.
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in detail,  in the attached  provisional  decision I 
issued on 16 April 2020. I asked both parties to let me have their final comments by 16 May 
2020. As Mr C and Acromas have  now responded, Ive decided its appropriate to proceed to 
issue my final decision  on this complaint. 
Miss D, who is representing Mr C, has responded to say:
they are extremely disappointed and saddened by the provisional decision;
they feel that Ive simply  ruled in favour of the AA and they dont feel that Ive been 
impartial and fair; and
theyve restated elements of their original evidence and arguments.
Acromas have responded to say they have no further comments  to make and they accept 
the findings in the provisional  decision.  Theyve  also said that due to the Covid-19 
restrictions, they are currently unable to issue cheques, so if Mr C decides to accept this 
decision, he will need to provide them with his bank account details so they can make  
payment to him.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  about  the comments 
provided by Miss D.
Im sorry  that Miss D and Mr C are disappointed by the conclusions Ive reached. 
Unfortunately, its often the case that one of the parties to a complaint will be disappointed  
with the outcome. However, I provided detailed reasons for the provisional conclusions I 
arrived at, to help Mr C understand  why Ive made that provisional decision. 
As neither party have  provided me with any new evidence or arguments to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
So, for the reasons given in this decision and my provisional decision attached, my decision 
is that Acromas offer of £640.00 in compensation to Mr C, to settle the complaint, together 
with paying the BER contribution of £250.00  towards the cost of the boiler, and 8% simple  
interest on that £250.00, is fair in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN61311282my final decision
Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  has already made an offer to pay a total of £890.00 to 
settle the complaint and, other than to require simple interest  of 8% on the £250.00 (payable 
from the date of Mr Cs claim to the date this award  is paid to Mr C) to be added  to the total 
amount due to Mr C, I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that 
Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  should pay £890.00 to Mr C, together  with 8% simple  
interest on the £250.00 BER contribution. I make no other award against Acromas  Insurance  
Company Limited.  Acromas Insurance Company Limited may deduct the £100.00  already 
paid to Mr C from the payment of this award that it makes to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61311283COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr C has complained that the engineers  who were sent to repair his boiler caused additional damage, 
resulting in the boiler being  declared beyond economic repair (BER). Mr Cs Home  Emergency 
Cover policy  was underwritten by Acromas  Insurance Company Limited, so in this decision I will refer 
to the business that hes complaining about  as Acromas. Mr C is represented  in his complaint by his 
mother, Miss D, who also resides at the property
Mr Cs also unhappy about the customer service  he received, including not having calls returned 
when promised and being left without hot water  or heating for days.
background
On 7 September 2018 Mr C contacted a company, who Ill call A, to report problems he was having  
with his hot water and heating. In particular, the boiler was showing an error message of F28,  which  
indicated a problem  with the boiler properly  igniting. An engineer attended the property on the same 
day and replaced a valve  and a printed circuit  board (PCB) on the boiler.  However, he had to leave 
the property  to go to another job, without  finishing the job, so, a second engineer attended the 
property later in the day. The second engineer recorded on his job sheet that the valve fitted by the 
first engineer had blown  off, and another PCB would need to be fitted. He also recorded  that parts 
totalling £1,080.80 would be required to repair the existing boiler.  The boiler was 18 years old, and 
valued at £200, so, on the basis that the repairs  would  cost more than the value of the boiler, the 
second engineer declared the boiler  to be BER under the terms of the policy. 
Mr C then made a claim  for a new boiler,  but his claim  was declined on the basis that his policy  only 
provided up to £250 towards the cost of a new boiler. Mr C said that the second engineer had told him 
hed be entitled  to a new boiler  and thats  what led him to agree with the conclusion that the boiler 
was BER. Miss D said she believes that if the engineer hadnt assumed that the policy would  cover a 
new boiler, he would have tried harder to repair the boiler, instead of declaring  it BER.
Miss D, on behalf of Mr C, complained about the damage they believed  the engineers  caused to the 
boiler and claimed compensation totalling £10,385.00 made up as follows:
 £1275.00 for loss of heating and hot water for the household, for 17 days;
 £2940.00 for the costs incurred  in unnecessarily  having  to replace the boiler;
 £5000.00 for the emotional  distress  of dealing  with A, making  numerous  phone calls and 
coping without hot water and heating;
 £170.00 call out fee for another  engineer to give another view on the boiler;  and
 £1000.00 for time taken  to call A, and another business who I will call H, to deal with the 
complaint
Acromas offered Mr C a compensation payment totalling £890.00 made  up as follows:
 £250.00 for the payment due under the policy  for the boiler on the basis it was BER;   
 £85.00 for a goodwill gesture of 50% of the refund of the call out charge; 
 £225.00 compensation for the days where heating and hot water wasnt available to Mr C; 
 £250.00 compensation for the emotional  distress caused to Mr C by the service he received 
from A (which  included the original £100 offered in the final response letter dated 5 October 
2018); and
 £50.00 compensation for the phone calls he had to make and the time he had to spend in 
relation to his claim.
As Mr C remained unhappy, Miss D brought his complaint  to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld.  She said 
Acromas wasnt required to cover the replacement  cost of the boiler  because the policy terms limited 
Ref: DRN61311284cover towards  the cost of a new boiler  to £250.00.  Our investigator  also said she hadnt been 
provided with any evidence of negligence  on the part of the engineer that first replaced  the valve on 
the boiler. And she concluded that the compensation payment Acromas had offered was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. Miss D said hed be prepared  to accept  the offer of £890.00 
as compensation but was still claiming  £2940.00 for the new boiler he had to purchase, (which he 
maintains wouldnt have been needed if the engineers  had correctly  repaired the boiler), and £170.00 
for the call out charge  for the engineer  who came to fix the boiler, giving a total of £4000.00 
compensation. Miss D says that she believes  the £4000.00 reflects the emotional and financial 
inconvenience theyve  been  forced  to endure due to the lacklustre and unprofessional service theyd 
received.
As Mr C wasnt happy  with our investigators  view,  the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Id also like to reassure Miss D that Ive listened  to 
all of the available call recordings for the calls she had with the A and H. In addition,  Id like to explain 
that where A, who sold the policy and are named in the branding of the policy, has acted on behalf of 
Acromas, the insurance underwriter, Ive referred to the business  as Acromas.
There are three key issues that I will address in this provisional decision. First, was the decision  to 
deem the boiler BER reasonable,  or was it likely to have  been caused by negligent actions on the part 
of the engineers? Second, although Mr Cs home emergency cover would only provide £250 towards  
the cost of a replacement boiler, was it reasonable  for him to rely on the assurance of the engineer 
that the boiler would be replaced under the policy terms and conditions? And third, was the service  
provided to Mr C of such a poor standard that compensation should be paid by Acromas?
Was it reasonable  to declare  the boiler beyond economic repair?
The evidence  on the case  file about what happened  when the engineers attended the property is 
contained in the two job sheets and a BER report provided by A; and Miss Ds and Mr Cs testimony 
about the engineers conversations and what they recall actually  happened on the day.
Miss D recalls that while the first engineer was replacing  parts on the boiler, she heard a bang 
followed by the engineer saying the board  had blown.  Miss D believes that the engineer caused 
further damage to the boiler because he wasnt appropriately  qualified to repair  a boiler of this type. 
She says he phoned a colleague  to ask what he should do and agreed that the PCB should be 
replaced. He then left the property and a second  engineer arrived to complete the job. He reported 
that the valve  flew off the boiler, so the repair carried  out by the first engineer  hadnt been successful. 
He then decided, having calculated that the cost of repairing the 18-year-old boiler would significantly 
exceed the value of the boiler, that it should  be declared BER.
Miss D has also told us that she sought advice and was told this fault is quite a common fault, easily 
repairable and if both engineers had known  about replacing the part with new leads there wouldnt 
have been this problem. Miss D has provided  a copy of an invoice for £170 from an engineer who 
came to the property to inspect the boiler. She says he told her the boiler could be repaired. 
Given the brevity  of information included in the engineers job sheets, I asked A to provide some 
further detail about what went on during the engineers visits. Theyve  explained that there were three 
visits to the property on 7 September. The first visit identified a defective PCB.  The second visit was 
made to the property at 11.51am,  and on replacing  the PCB, they say the fault on the boiler 
immediately caused  damage to the PCB preventing further operation. At that point the engineer  
identified that the gas valve was also defective,  so that component was ordered  along  with another  
Ref: DRN61311285PCB. A third visit was completed at 17.05pm where  the new gas valve and second PCB were  
installed. That PCB was immediately affected  by the fault again, preventing  further operation of the 
boiler. A reports that the engineer then realised that the wiring harness between  the PCB and the gas 
valve was required,  as well as a third PCB. Theyve also explained that theres  no evidence that other 
parts, such as the ignition electrodes and leads were  checked  by the engineers, but it appears from 
the notes that the fault was immediately causing damage to the PCB which was rendering the boiler 
un-operational. 
Having carefully considered the available evidence, Im not satisfied theres  enough evidence to 
conclude its likely the engineers were negligent  in the actions they took to repair  the boiler.  It seems 
to me that replacing  the PCB board is a reasonable  action to take, to try and repair  a fault with the 
ignition (indicated  by an F28 error message). And it isnt unusual that a repair may take place in a 
number of stages as the engineer problem-solves the fault step by step. So, I dont think that 
replacing different  parts at different points in time was an indication the engineers had acted  
unreasonably. 
Ive also considered Miss Ds evidence. However, in the absence of a more  detailed  report  from an 
engineer setting out what  tests theyd carried  out and the reasons for their conclusion that the boiler  
was able to be fixed, together with the estimated cost of the repair, I dont find that evidence to be 
particularly helpful or persuasive. On the whole,  Im currently  of the view that theres  insufficient 
evidence to support Miss Ds claim that the engineers acted  negligently  in the steps they took to 
repair the boiler.
So, Ive next thought about whether it was reasonable for the engineer  to declare the boiler  BER. I 
understand Mr Cs frustration that he was given wrong information about  being  entitled to a 
replacement boiler under his policy  terms (which Ill consider next). But this doesnt impact on the 
factual question  of whether  or not it was economic to repair the boiler. The 18-year-old  boiler was 
valued at £200, and the repairs were estimated to cost in the region  of £1,000. Where the value  of the 
boiler, and the cost of repair are closer in proximity  to each  other,  I think there might be a reason to 
argue about whether  or not the boiler should be declared BER. But in this case, as the repair costs 
were significantly in excess  of the value of the boiler, (which, although Miss D says was in good 
working order, was 18 years old) I dont think the decision to declare the boiler to be BER was 
unreasonable. 
Was it reasonable  for Mr C to rely on the engineers assurances that hed be entitled to a replacement 
boiler under the policy terms and conditions? 
Ive next gone on to consider whether it was reasonable  for Mr C to rely on the engineers assurance 
that hed be entitled to a replacement boiler.
Ive looked at the policy  terms  and conditions  which  are included in a Welcome Pack for the packaged  
bank account Mr C took out with his Bank, who Ill call L. The Welcome Pack is 38 pages long and 
contains information about a number of benefits provided with the packaged bank account. In 
common with many  policies like this, Mr Cs terms and conditions limit the benefit payable in the event  
that a boiler is deemed to be beyond economic repair. 
The Home Emergency Cover is listed on page 4 of the Welcome Pack.  Under the heading: Things to 
be aware of it says if the boiler is beyond economic repair, cover for your primary heating system  will 
cease until your boiler is replaced.  We will contribute a maximum of £250 towards the cost of you 
replacing it with a new boiler. This is repeated on page 22 of the Welcome  Pack  under: D) Primary 
Heating System What  is covered. 
So, I think it was clear in the terms  and conditions that only £250 would  be payable towards  a 
replacement boiler. I also think its reasonable to expect that Mr C would  review the first four pages of 
the terms, which included this information. 
Ref: DRN61311286I agree that in providing this assurance, the engineer  provided poor customer service to Mr C, but it 
doesnt automatically  follow  that it would be fair to ask Acromas to pay for a new boiler for Mr C 
because of its engineers mistake. So, on balance, I dont think  its reasonable to require  Acromas to 
meet the full cost of a replacement boiler,  to make  up for that poor service. 
Should Mr C be compensated for As customer service failings? 
Miss D says that they relied on the engineers assurances and have suffered  financial loss as a result. 
I agree that A didnt provide  Mr C with good customer service in this respect, and some compensation  
is required to put this right. In addition  to providing incorrect information to Mr C, the first engineer  had 
to leave  the property without repairing the boiler,  to go to another  job, which Miss D also complains  
about. She says they were  without hot water  and heating for 17 days, and also mentioned having  to 
spend a lot of time pursuing this complaint. In thinking about the amount of compensation  thats due 
to Mr C, I think it may be helpful if I explain that as Miss D isnt insured under  the policy, I cant look at 
whether she is entitled  to compensation for any inconvenience shes been caused.
In addition to paying the £250.00 BER contribution towards the boiler, Acromas  have offered £640.00 
in compensation to Mr C, to settle the complaint  and Im provisionally of the view that this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances.  Acromas has broken its offer down into payments for being without heating  
and hot water, emotional distress and phone bills. However, we generally consider compensation as a 
global payment for the overall  distress  and inconvenience  suffered and thats what Ive done here. 
Having thought about all the circumstances  of this complaint, I think £640.00  is a reasonable amount 
to compensate Mr C for the overall customer service failings, and for being  without hot water and 
heating for 17 days. 
With regard to the offer of compensation,  Acromas have confirmed that £100 has already  been paid 
to Mr C, following  the issuing of the final response letter in October  2018. So, the balance  which 
would currently remain to be paid to Mr C is £790.00, together with 8% simple interest on the £250.00 
BER contribution from the date of Mr Cs claim  to the date this award  is paid to Mr C.
my provisional  decision
Acromas Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £890.00 to settle the 
complaint and, other than to require interest on the £250.00 payment to be added  to the total amount 
due to Mr C, I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my provisional decision is that 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited should pay £890.00 to Mr C, together with 8% simple interest 
on the £250.00 BER contribution. I make no other award  against Acromas Insurance  Company 
Limited.
I now invite  Mr C and Acromas Insurance Company  Limited to let me have any final comments theyd 
like me to consider before  I issue my final decision.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6131128