K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold a mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc.
Background
I gather  Mrs Ms PPI policy started in 1987   several months  after her mortgage  started. 
The monthly cost of the PPI policy was around £10. If Mrs M made a successful  claim the 
monthly benefit would  have  been paid for up to 24 months per disability claim or for up to 
12 months if she became  unemployed. Mrs M could have claimed multiple  times.  
 
One of our adjudicators didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs M 
disagreed, so the case was passed to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
There are gaps in the information available which isnt surprising given how long ago the PPI 
was sold and later ended.  Mrs M suggests  she was led to believe she had to have PPI if she 
wanted the mortgage. But Im mindful  that it appears  she wasnt sold PPI until several  
months after the mortgage had started. This doesnt  seem to support what  shes said.  
Overall, I cant see anything  in the available documents to suggest that Mrs M wouldnt have  
been given a choice about  taking out the PPI or that she didnt choose to take it out. So I 
dont uphold the complaint on these grounds. 
Mrs M says Bank of Ireland recommended the PPI to her. Typically, that would mean  it 
needed to check  that it was right for her. I dont  know what  steps  Bank of Ireland took but Im 
satisfied that the PPI was right for her in any case.  
 
I say that because, for example, the policy terms include the eligibility requirements for the 
cover, and Mrs M appears to have met them. They also set out the main things the PPI 
didnt cover. From the information  I have I cant see that Mrs M would have been affected  by 
any of them.  
Mrs M told us she was entitled to enhanced sick pay from her public sector  employer when 
she took out the PPI. And that she had savings she could have relied on if she couldnt work, 
although she cant recall  how much. However, the PPI would potentially have paid out in 
addition to, and for longer than, her employment  benefits. It would have  covered her for 
unemployment too. The PPI also meant she could retain her savings or use them  to cover 
her other living costs if she wasnt working.
Ref: DRN60533102Because of this, and the fact that the mortgage was a long-term  financial commitment  
secured against  Mrs Ms home, I believe shed have valued  the extra security the PPI 
provided her with. 
Theres nothing to suggest the monthly premium was unaffordable for Mrs M. And, as it was 
payable on a regular  basis,  she could have cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if she 
decided she no longer wanted the PPI. 
Bank of Ireland  also needed to give Mrs M enough  information about the PPI to allow  her to 
decide for herself if it was right for her. I think its possible that the information it gave her 
could have been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont  think the PPI was 
unsuitable for her, I dont think that better  information would have changed her decision  to 
take it. I think she would still have thought it provided a useful benefit at an affordable  cost.
Which means Bank of Ireland  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Bank of Ireland will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:  
Bank of Ireland  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because Bank  of Ireland didnt 
tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Irelands  basically offered to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that 
offers fair in this case.
What the business needs  to do
Bank of Ireland  has to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Bank of Ireland should  also 
pay back to Mrs M any extra interest  she paid because of that.
Bank of Ireland  should pay back to Mrs M the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bank of Ireland 
should also pay Mrs M 8%* simple  interest  on each  payment (15%  on payments before 
April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so.
Ref: DRN60533103Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6053310