K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that TSB Bank plc didnt  do enough to help her when she was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
background
Miss B says she approached TSB in early 2018 because  she was having  difficulty with her 
finances. She says she tried to arrange a loan, but this was turned down.  Instead,  TSB 
extended her overdraft.
Miss B paid a monthly fee for an arranged overdraft  of £1,000 plus interest on the balance.  
She also paid a monthly £10 fee to avoid unarranged overdraft fees.
Miss B stopped  using her account on a regular basis from around  August 2018. In February 
2019 she made a payment to clear  her overdraft, but additional  charges and interest meant 
she became overdrawn  again by about  £57. 
Miss B contacted TSB to say she couldnt  pay this amount, and the bank referred  her to its 
customer support unit. As a result  TSB waived the £10 monthly fee for six months.
In May 2019  TSB wrote to Miss B to say she had thirty days to clear the balance on her 
account. Miss B says she didnt get the letter so the amount remained outstanding. TSB 
closed the account and entered a default on Miss Bs credit  record. Miss B considers this 
was unfair.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
TSB had done what it could to help Miss B when it became aware of her financial difficulties. 
He found that TSB had written to Miss B at her correct address to warn her that the account 
would be closed if she didnt clear the balance  within thirty days. So he didnt consider TSB 
had acted incorrectly.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I realise Miss B has strong feelings about  how shes been treated by TSB, and appreciate 
the difficulties  shes experienced in trying to manage  her finances. Ive thought carefully 
about everything Miss B has said.
Miss B has told me that she first approached  TSB in early 2018  when  she was having  
difficulty with her finances, and tried to arrange  a loan.  She says this was turned down by the 
bank. 
Ref: DRN66446022There isnt much evidence to support what Miss B has said, but TSB has provided a copy of 
its historic notes for the account.  These suggest  there was a lending appointment with Miss 
B in January  2018. An extract from the notes says:
Not working as hasdaughter so no income  for lending (CHB only).
This suggests to me that TSB reviewed Miss Bs circumstances but as she wasnt  working it 
wasnt in a position to offer her a loan. So on balance  I think  its unlikely a loan application 
was completed.
Miss B says TSB extended  her overdraft, which contributed to the financial difficulty she was 
in. She stopped using the account on a regular basis from around August 2018, and cleared 
her overdraft balance  in February  2019. But the account  remained  open and overdraft fees,  
together with accrued overdraft interest  meant the account became overdrawn again  soon  
afterwards. By early March 2019 the account was overdrawn  by about £30, and this had 
increased to about  £57 by early April 2019.
Miss B contacted TSB to say she couldnt  pay the charges, and it referred her to its 
customer support unit. Following a review of Miss Bs income and expenditure TSB agreed 
to waive  the monthly  £10 unarranged overdraft fee for six months. It seems it also froze  
interest on the account.
Miss B says her understanding was that TSB had given her six months  to clear the account 
balance. 
But I think this may have been a misunderstanding.  I say this because  TSB wrote to Miss B 
on 13 April 2019 to explain that the £10 fee had been waived for six months. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that TSB had agreed a six month period for Miss B to repay  her 
overdraft.
TSB wrote to Miss B again on 2 May 2019  to say that the overdraft balance had to be 
cleared within  thirty days to avoid a default on the account. Miss B says she didnt  get the 
letter, but Im satisfied that TSB wrote  to her at her correct address. So I dont  think  I can 
fairly say that TSB was responsible for Miss B not receiving the letter. 
From what  Ive seen, I think waiving the unarranged  overdraft fee for six months  was a fair 
and reasonable response by TSB when it became aware of Miss Bs financial difficulty.  
Waiving the fee and freezing interest  meant  Miss Bs debt didnt increase while she was 
trying to repay what she owed. 
As Ive already  said, I think  TSB made Miss B aware of the timeframe  for repaying the 
overdraft to avoid  a default on the account.  The debt wasnt  settled, so TSB closed the 
account and registered the default  in line with its terms and conditions.
I appreciate the upset  this will have caused  Miss B, but for the reasons Ive explained  Im not 
persuaded that TSB has acted incorrectly on this occasion. As such, there arent  any 
reasonable grounds on which I can uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN66446023my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6644602