K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage Mr R holds  with Barclays  Bank UK PLC. Hes 
unhappy that Barclays wont incentivise him to repay  it early by offering him a discount.
background
Mr R has told us that the mortgage rate is favourable to him, but hed be willing  to pay it off 
early if Barclays  offered him a discount  on the outstanding balance.  Hes made  the offer to 
the bank  including trying to contact the CEO  directly  but Barclays  has declined  to take 
him up on it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Barclays had done anything wrong. Mr R wants  an ombudsman 
to review and decide his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint.
This complaint is simpler than its been  made  to look. Mr R has a contract  with Barclays  
Bank, under which hes borrowed a sum of money.  The debts repayable, with interest, over 
a specified period but Mr R can repay  it sooner than the due date. Mr R has offered to do the 
latter but wants the bank, as an incentive,  to give him a discount off the outstanding  balance. 
The bank could  do that, but has chosen not to. 
The remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve,  as informally as possible, 
complaints alleging maladministration and/or unfair  treatment of a consumer  in the provision  
of a financial service. But thats not what I have in front of me. 
What I have here is a request from a consumer to a business to depart from the terms of a 
mutually-agreed contract. It can choose  to do so or not; Barclays has chosen not to. Thats 
an exercise of commercial judgement on Barclays part. We dont generally interfere in such 
decisions and theres no reason  for me to do so here.
Theres no suggestion Mr R is in any kind of financial hardship that means hes unable  to 
repay the mortgage in full. He can repay it all, but would simply prefer it if the bank allowed 
him not to. In those circumstances, theres no question of unfair treatment or 
maladministration. 
Mr R argues that its in both parties  interests for Barclays to accept a short settlement. Thats 
his view and hes entitled to hold it. The bank apparently  thinks differently, and it too is 
entitled to its opinion. Its not up to me to decide  whose opinion  should prevail, and whatever 
decisions the business may or may not have  taken in other cases  are of no relevance here. 
Ref: DRN68238442Mr R says he wants there to be a negotiation, but were not here to act as his negotiator. 
Barclays has exercised  its commercial judgement, and Mr R is now free to do the same  by 
deciding if he wishes to repay the full mortgage balance early.  I would no more interfere with 
his judgement than I do the banks.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6823844