K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that First Response Finance Ltd is pursuing her for a debt which she 
doesnt believe she owes.
background
In May 2018  Ms S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  with 
First Response.  The purchase price  of the car was £5,595.
In July 2018 Ms S contacted First Response and told it she hadnt collected the car from the 
dealership as she no longer wanted  it. She also said she hadnt been able to obtain  
insurance for the car and she felt the purchase price was inflated.
First Response explained to Ms S that she had entered into a finance agreement and that 
because the purchase price had already been paid to the dealership she was liable to repay  
the loan.
Ms S contacted First Response again in August 2018. She said she had cancelled  her direct 
debit and wouldnt be collecting  the car.
First Response arranged for the car to be collected  from the dealership and sold at auction. 
The proceeds of sale were applied to reduce the loan balance.
First Response contacted  Ms S regarding payment of the outstanding loan balance.  Miss S 
didnt pay and complained to this service. She says she hasnt  had the money or the car and 
she doesnt think shes liable for anything.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said that based on the information available  
Ms S had entered  into the hire purchase agreement willingly and was happy with the terms.  
The investigator also said that Ms Ss efforts to obtain insurance showed that she had 
wanted the car, but the fact that she had been  unable to obtain insurance  did not give her 
the right to withdraw  from the hire purchase  agreement. The investigator concluded that Ms 
S was liable to pay the outstanding balance. 
Ms S didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. This sets out the terms and conditions and includes 
key details such as the price  of the car, the amount  of credit and the interest  payable.  Ms S 
signed the agreement on 14 May 2018 and in doing  so confirmed that she had read and 
understood the terms, including the obligation  to repay and what would happen if she didnt.
Although Ms S has told this service that she felt pressured into entering into the agreement  
by the dealership, she hasnt provided  any further  details about  this. Because  of a lack of 
information, Im unable to comment  on this aspect of her complaint further. On the available 
information theres no evidence to suggest  that the agreement was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN67535752I can see that a third party acting on behalf  of Ms S contacted First Response  on 4 June  
2018 to explain  that Ms S was having problems obtaining insurance for the car. They asked  
First Response to unwind the agreement.
Ive looked at what happened next with a view to determining whether First Response acted 
fairly and reasonably. Although Ms Ss inability  to obtain insurance  isnt a reason to unwind 
the agreement, I can see that First Response contacted the dealership to ask whether it 
would be prepared to agree to this. The dealership didnt agree to unwind  the agreement. 
There are very limited circumstances  in which an agreement can be unwound. A customers 
inability to obtain insurance isnt one of them. Taking  everything into account  I think  First 
Response did as much  as it could to help Ms S.
Because the dealership  refused to unwind  the agreement Ms S remained liable to make 
payments. This is the case even though she hadnt collected the car. First Response had 
already transferred the purchase price to the dealership. So although Ms S has said she 
never received the money or the car, she wouldnt have received the money  in this scenario 
 the finance company always transfers  money  to the supplier  direct. 
I understand why Ms S didnt want to collect the car if she wasnt able to obtain insurance. 
But the fact that she changed her mind about  the car doesnt  affect  her legal obligation to 
make payments under the finance  agreement. Ms S has said that she wasnt  happy about 
the price of the car but on the evidence, she agreed  to purchase it at that price and entered 
into the finance agreement willingly. I cant say that First Response has acted  unfairly by 
asking Ms S to make payments under the agreement.
Its clear that Ms S was unwilling to make  payments under the agreement. She cancelled  her 
direct debit and didnt respond to requests for payment which  were  sent to her by First 
Response. Nor did she collect the car, which was effectively abandoned at the dealership.  In 
these circumstances,  Im satisfied that First Response was entitled to terminate the 
agreement and sell the car at auction, in line with clause 11.2 of the terms and conditions of 
the agreement.
The outstanding balance  is now more than when the agreement started due to the addition 
of storage fees and court costs. This leaves Ms S in an unfortunate position but I cant  see 
how First Response could have handled things any differently in the circumstances, given 
that Ms S refused  to collect  the car, refused to make payments under the agreement  and 
failed to reach any agreement with First Response as to a way forward which would avoid 
the car being  sold.
Ms S has explained that she doesnt feel shes liable for anything. I cant  agree with her. Ms 
S has entered into a legally binding agreement under which  she was obliged  to make 
payments. She hasnt  done so and the agreement has been terminated in line with the terms 
and conditions leaving a balance outstanding  which Ms S is liable to repay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Ref: DRN67535753Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6753575