K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Miss H complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr S and Miss H in 1998, in connection 
with a mortgage. The policy provided  cover  for Mr S and Miss H if they couldnt work  
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr S and Miss H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and Miss Hs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it
recommended was suitable  for Mr S and Miss Hs needs?
- Did Halifax  give Mr S and Miss H the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether
Mr S and Miss H are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
 such as not taking out the policy  if there  hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S and Miss Hs case and Ive set out my reasons  below.
Mr S and Miss H say they didnt know the PPI had been added  to their account,  and that 
Halifax didnt explain it to them. They say they wouldnt have bought the policy if it had been 
offered to them. Ive noted everything Mr S and Miss H have said.
Halifax hasnt provided much information  from the point of sale, which  isnt surprising given  
the amount of time thats passed.  Its also similar  to some other cases  Ive seen.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr S and Miss H and
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful  that these events happened many  years
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened  can fade over time.
Without anything  else to support what Mr S and Miss H have told me, I dont think I can fairly
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Ref: DRN60643732Mr S and Miss H have told me that they didnt claim on the policy  when Mr S lost his job, 
although I understand he managed to find a new job within a month. The policy wouldnt pay 
out during the first month of unemployment, which isnt unusual  and I dont consider it to be 
unreasonable. 
Even though  Mr S and Miss H didnt  make a claim on the policy  on that occasion,  that 
doesnt mean they wouldnt have  been able to in different circumstances.  So this point 
doesnt persuade  me that the policy was mis-sold.
Halifax has accepted  that it advised  Mr S and Miss H to take out the policy  and it doesnt 
look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. I say this because:
- Mr S and Miss H were eligible for the policy given their circumstances  and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
- Mr S and Miss H say they were entitled to employer benefits  if they couldnt  work due 
to sickness or accident, and that they had some savings. But the policy wouldve paid 
out in addition to their employer benefits  and would do so, it seems,  for longer. 
Having the policy  in place wouldve meant Mr S and Miss H could use their employer 
benefits and savings to pay for other  expenses. So I think  the policy wouldve been 
useful to them.
- Mr S and Miss H werent affected  by any of the conditions  limiting the policys main  
benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions 
and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr S and Miss H before they 
agreed to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have  to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. So I 
think it unlikely Mr S and Miss H would have  made  a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S and Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But as Ive already  said, Mr S and Miss H werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I think it unlikely Mr S 
and Miss H would  have made a different decision if better information  had been provided  
overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6064373