K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs  decision  to void (cancel)  his retailers 
property contents  insurance policy and decline his claim.
background
Mr A is a sole trader and leases a shop  premises.  He took out his policy with AXA via a 
broker in September  2017. In July 2018,  Mr A locked up and activated the alarm one 
evening. At some point  between doing  so and opening  up the next morning  intruders had 
unsuccessfully tried to force entry to the premises through a rear section of the shops roof. 
In doing so a large hole was left in the roof allowing rainwater to enter  the shop and cause 
damage to the contents and stock. 
Mr A claimed under his policy and AXA appointed a loss adjuster to validate  the claim. The 
loss adjuster visited the premises about  two weeks after the theft and issued his report to 
AXA shortly  after. The loss adjuster reported  to AXA that the roof was of non-standard  
construction. He also notified Mr A that AXA was reserving its position owing to a potential 
material misrepresentation by Mr A at inception in respect of the construction of the property. 
AXA instructed  its solicitors to write to Mr As broker explaining that it considered  it was 
entitled to avoid the policy and inviting Mr A to provide it with any representations/information 
he may have to dispute its position.  Mr A wrote  to AXA to complain about the delay in it 
making a decision  about his claim. He also said he didnt own the building  so the question he 
was asked at inception about  the construction of the roof wasnt  one he was qualified  to 
answer. 
AXA voided  Mr As policy  shortly after and returned Mr As premiums to his broker. Mr A 
complained to AXA about its decision. He said he hadnt ever received the letter  AXA said 
had been sent to his broker by its solicitors so hed been unable  to reply within the required 
timeframe. 
AXA looked  into Mr As complaint  but didnt recommend that it was upheld. It said his broker  
had said it had sent Mr A a copy of its solicitors letter and that he hadnt replied. AXA also 
said claims can take a while to assess and investigate especially where there  was a 
suspected misrepresentation. It said it endeavoured to complete the task as quickly as 
possible and didnt  think itd caused an un-necessary delay. 
AXA went  on to say that Mr A had declared at inception that the property was of standard  
construction. It referred to the statement  of fact itd sent him shortly  after which contained  an 
explanation of what standard  construction  meant. It said if he was unsure what  the actual 
roofing material was then he shouldve sought professional advice. It said its loss adjuster  
had confirmed the roof was constructed of 100%  felt on timber  and that if itd know  this then 
it wouldnt have offered cover. It said the type of roofing material  made it easier for thieves to 
breach. So, it said it was maintaining its decision to void his policy and to refuse to deal with 
his claim.  
Unhappy with AXAs findings Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator looked  into 
his complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He thought  that there hadnt been a 
qualifying misrepresentation because the question asked at the point of sale about the 
construction of the property wasnt clear enough to elicit the information  AXA said it needed.  
So, he recommended  that AXA reinstate Mr As policy  and consider his claim. 
Ref: DRN62614622AXA disagreed with our investigators findings  and said what it meant by standard  
construction had been  clearly  set out in its statement of fact. It said Mr A had failed to take 
sufficient care in what hed told his broker. It asked for the complaint to be referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr As policy is strictly a commercial one, I dont think that Mr A can 
be described as a sophisticated  buyer of insurance.  I understand that he has only had a 
shop for less than two years prior to which he was a taxi driver. He has said that this was the 
first commercial policy hes ever had. 
I understand that Mr As policy was incepted electronically on AXAs  system by his broker. At 
inception the system  asked: Is the property of standard construction?. Mr As broker  
answered: yes. Ive seen a screenshot of the system and the question  asked.  There  is no 
qualifying information  about what AXA meant by standard construction.  AXA has said that if 
Mr A had answered no then further questions wouldve appeared on the system which  
wouldve captured the construction  materials and their percentages. 
The policy was incepted  between  Mr A and his broker over the phone. We have  asked for a 
copy of the sales  call but it hasnt been able to be retrieved. The broker  told our investigator 
that it simply read the questions provided on the system and entered the answer 
appropriately. 
From this, its reasonable to think that Mr A was asked the question as it was written. I dont 
think its fair to expect Mr A to know what AXA meant by standard construction. And I dont 
think the question  was specific or clear enough to elicit the information AXA wanted to know  
about the roof. 
Shortly after the sale Mr A was sent his policy documents.  These  included  a copy  of the 
statement of fact. The statement of fact provides a record of the information provided  by the 
insured at the point of sale. It warns about  the need  to fairly present the risk that AXA is 
being asked to take on. Under  the section about  the property itself it says: The property is of 
standard construction (walls built only of brick, stone, or concrete and roofed  only with 
slates, tiles, metal, concrete  or asphalt). Ive seen a picture of the shop premises and can 
see its roof is entirely flat. It is not now in dispute that the roof is covered by felt on timber.  
But I cant ignore  that the statement of fact doesnt  reflect the question that was put to Mr A 
by the broker  during  the sale. The two questions are different. If the question  that appeared 
in the statement of fact had been asked by the system at the point of sale I would likely be 
reaching a very different  decision here. But the qualifying explanation in the statement of fact 
about what AXA meant by standard  construction didnt form part of the question  Mr A was 
asked at the point of sale. And there was no question at all asked about the roof or what it 
was made  of. So, I cant fairly conclude that Mr A has misrepresented  the risk he was asking 
AXA to take on. I dont  think its fair to reasonably expect Mr A to know that by just asking if 
the property was of standard construction AXA also wanted to know  what the roof was 
constructed of. 
Ref: DRN62614623Its the duty of the insurer to ensure that all the material  information it requires is obtained via 
the questions  it puts to consumers and I dont think that AXA has done so here. I accept it 
wanted to know  about the roof, and that if it had known what it was made of it wouldve 
declined to cover Mr A. But as it didnt  ask Mr A about it when he purchased  the policy,  it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that Mr A had misrepresented the risk he was presenting 
to AXA.  
I think that AXA should reinstate Mr As policy and now consider his contents  claim. It is 
unclear to me whether  AXA has already returned the policy  premiums  Mr A paid but if it has, 
Mr A should  be aware he will need to return those premiums to AXA (in effect so that hes 
paid for the policy)  before it can consider  the claim.  
Insofar as AXA has put voidance  markers  on any internal or external insurance databases, it 
should now remove them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to reinstate 
Mr As policy  and to consider his claim. It should  also remove any voidance markers  against 
Mr A from any internal and external databases. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6261462