K821x#15Complaint
Mrs Z has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly increased her overdraft limit 
continued applying  charges to her overdraft when she was experiencing financial difficulty .
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should  have  
realised that Mrs Z was experiencing difficulty in April 2017  and so it needed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Mrs Zs overdraft from this point. Lloyds didnt agree  
so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think Lloyds acted  unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees after it renewed Mrs Zs overdraft 
in April 2017. By this point, it ought  to have  been clear that Mrs Z might  have been 
experiencing financial difficulty and it ought  to have taken corrective  action in relation to her 
overdraft. 
A look at Mrs Zs statements leading up to the renewal shows that she hadnt had a credit 
balance on her account for a prolonged period. And she was developing a reliance on high-
cost and other unsustainable  forms of credit. In these circumstances, it ought  to have been 
apparent that Mrs Z was unlikely to be enough  to repay what she owed within  a reasonable 
period of time with overdraft interest,  fees and associated  charges being added. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that Lloyds should  have  stopped providing the overdraft on 
the same  terms, in April 2017, and treated  Mrs Z with forbearance  rather than adding even 
more fees and charges on the overdraft . 
All of this means  that Lloyds  ought  to have realised  Mrs Z was experiencing financial 
difficulty, wasnt using  her overdraft as intended  and shouldnt  have continued  offering  it on 
the same  terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mrs Zs overdraft usage  and instead  continued  
charging in the same  way, I think it failed to act fairly  and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs Z ended up paying additional  interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a time when 
she was already experiencing difficulty.  So I think  that Mrs Z lost out because of what  Lloyds 
did wrong and that it needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Mrs Z.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Zs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Ref: DRN64294552Reworking Mrs Zs current overdraft  balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from April 2017 onwards  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mrs Z to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Zs credit 
file, it should backdate  this to April 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs Z along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mrs Zs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mrs Z a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Mrs Zs complaint.  Lloyds Bank PLC to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6429455