K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc entered into a finance  agreement irresponsibly 
as it knew he couldnt afford it.
background
Mr S took out a hire purchase agreement with Secure in November 2014 to buy a car. He 
borrowed £8,280  which was repayable over 60 months at £284.66 a month. In June 2015 he 
asked for a settlement figure and then in November he told Secure he couldnt afford the 
payments as he had to pay child support.  A repayment plan was agreed.  In April 2018 Mr S 
complained that the loan was unaffordable.  Secure rejected his complaint and the matter 
was referred to this service.
It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld.  He 
considered the checks made by Secure and thought  they werent proportionate. He noted  it 
had only seen bank  statements  covering  a few weeks  and felt this didnt give a clear picture 
of Mr Ss finances. However, he considered  the credit check carried out by Secure didnt 
throw up any issues  which would have  prevented  the loan being  made.  
He then considered  whether the loan would have been affordable  if proportionate checks  
had been carried  out. He reviewed the bank statements  for three  months and concluded that 
after allowing  for regular  outgoings Mr S could  afford  the loan.  Mr S disputed  some of the 
figures and suggested that 90% of his cash withdrawals would have been for his electric and 
gas meters. He was also making payments to family members.  The investigator  wasnt 
persuaded that 90% of cash  went on essentials  and asked for more details.
On balance the investigator  considered  that if Secure had carried  out proportionate checks  it 
would have entered into the agreement and it would  have  been acceptable for it to have 
done so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a year after the agreement was taken  out Mr S was able to make his monthly  payments, 
but then he had an additional  expense  of child support and from that point he found it difficult  
to maintain his payments. I note he had difficulties from November 2015 until June 2016 and 
since them  he has maintained payments.  I also note that he sought  further  finance  for a new 
car in September 2017 which was turned  down by Secure. 
Mr S has said that he suffered the deaths of two family members and breakdown of a 
relationship which led to him being  homeless, all of which contributed  to his financial 
problems. I appreciate that he has faced challenging times, but I have to consider what  his 
situation was at the time the loan was made and what checks were carried out by Secure.
Secure has explained  that it offers higher risk loans to those with a poor credit history, but it 
endeavoured to be satisfied  that customers could meet their monthly repayments. It was 
satisfied that at the time of the application Mr S met its criteria. However, I agree that it 
would have been prudent to delve a little deeper  into Mr Ss financial situation and certainly 
Ref: DRN66437742to have seen additional bank statements. To that end I think  the checks carried  out werent  
proportionate. 
However, I also agree with the investigator  regarding the affordability of the finance. He has 
looked at Mr Ss finances at the time the agreement was taken  out in some  detail and has 
concluded Mr S had sufficient disposable income. I have reviewed the figures and while  I 
can see that some of the use to which cash withdrawals were put isnt clear  I believe that on 
the balance of probabilities Mr S did have sufficient  income to cover  the repayments.  This 
has been confirmed  by him maintaining  the monthly  payments  apart from the few months 
when he fell into arrears.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
9 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6643774