K820x#14Complaint
Mr W, on behalf of M, complains that Svenska Handelsbanken AB (Publ) (Svenska) closed 
Ms accounts and cut short the notice period it provided. Mr W says closing the accounts 
caused him and M a great deal of distress and inconvenience. And he wants Svenska to pay 
compensation. 
Mr W is represented by Mr S.
Background
In October  2013, M opened several  business accounts with Svenska. 
On 8 January  2018, Svenska wrote to Mr W to let him know  it would be closing Ms accounts 
on 9 April 2018 due to a change in the banks risk appetite. And it told him he needed  to 
make alternative banking arrangements.
After issuing the notice to close the accounts, Svenska conducted a further review of Ms 
account after a cash payment of £10,000 was paid into its account on 10 January 2018. 
Following this review, on 12 January 2018, Svenska decided to close  Ms accounts 
immediately.
Mr W complained  to Svenska. He said it wasnt fair Svenska had decided to close  Ms 
accounts immediately  after it had said it had three months notice. He said that the 
immediate closure had caused M financial loss and Ms directors  had to spend  considerable 
time setting  up new accounts,  which took them away  from the day to day running of M. He 
also said that he and the other directors were caused a great deal of stress and anxiety by 
Svenskas actions. And that Svenska should  pay compensation.
In response, Svenska said it had complied  with its legal and regulatory  obligations  when it 
reviewed Ms accounts. And had also complied with the terms and conditions when it 
decided to close the accounts  immediately.  Svenska  wrote  to Mr W in March 2018 and 
explained its decision. Mr W still wasnt happy with this response.  He wanted Svenska to 
provide a proper  explanation for why it no longer wanted M as a customer  and pay 
compensation for financial loss and upset. So, he brought his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Ms complaint. She thought Svenska should have given 
M more notice that it was closing its accounts.  And recommended  it pay M £250 for the 
inconvenience this caused. Mr W disagreed.  He said £250 didnt reflect  the amount of 
trouble and upset  Svenskas actions had caused M and its staff. He said M had suffered 
financial losses as it didnt  have  a Euro trading account set up with another bank when  
Svenska closed Ms accounts. So, it lost more than £11,000 in profits.  He also said Svenska 
should compensate  him and Ms other directors for the time they had to spend sorting out 
another bank  account and the stress  theyd all suffered.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
26 March 2020.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Ref: DRN69864272All banks  in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet  their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required  to carry out ongoing  monitoring of an 
existing business  relationship. That sometimes means banks  need  to review and sometimes  
block customers accounts.  Svenska have said that Ms accounts  were reviewed as part of their 
customer due diligence  work to meet these legal requirements.
Having looked  at whats happened  in this case, Im satisfied  that the bank was complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed Ms accounts. So, I cant say it has 
done anything  wrong. The terms and conditions  of Mr Ms account also permit Svenska to 
review an account.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that Svenska cut short the closure notice  period  after initially 
telling M it had three months before it would close the companys accounts.  And that this 
caused M a great deal of trouble and its staff upset. 
Ive looked at the information Svenska relied upon to close Ms accounts. I find no need to 
repeat Svenskas concerns  here,  as theyve  been  clearly expressed in correspondence  sent 
to Ms directors  and at certain  times  to Ms legal representative, Mr S. And after considering  
all the circumstances  of this complaint, I find Svenskas concerns arent unreasonable.  And 
based on the information Ive seen, Im also satisfied Svenskas position  in relation to the 
account isnt inappropriate. So, I dont  think Svenska  did anything  wrong  when it closed Ms 
accounts immediately  notwithstanding the fact that it had previously given M three  months 
notice.
I know Mr W is frustrated that hes not been given a proper explanation about why Svenska 
decided to close Ms accounts.  But Svenska doesnt have to provide  this information  as 
much as hed like to know. However,  I can see that on 21 March 2018,  Svenska wrote to 
Mr W, after hed raised his complaint, to explain  why it had decided to close Ms accounts. 
So, I think its likely Mr W had some  understanding of the reasons for Svenskas  actions.
Mr W has argued that Svenska cherry pick their customers. And suspect Svenska have 
discriminated against M on the grounds  of the directors nationality.  I dont underestimate  
Mr Ws strength  of feeling about this matter, but I find nothing  to indicate that this was the 
reason why their account was closed.
I acknowledge the impact the closure  of the account has had on M and its directors.  Mr W 
has said that M has lost business  as result of the account closure.  And hes provided a cost 
invoice setting out Ms turnover for 2016  and 2017 for the period of January  March. Based 
on this Mr W says that over the same  period in 2018  Ms profit should have been 
£11,715.90. Mr W wants Svenska to compensate  M for this loss and compensate the 
directors for the trouble upset caused  by Svenska closing the accounts.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W, but overall,  having considered the evidence,  I currently think  it 
was reasonable  for Svenska to close Ms accounts  in the way it did. And because  I think 
Svenska havent  treated M unfairly, Im also not planning to tell Svenska to pay any 
compensation. 
So subject to any further representations by Mr W or Svenska I was minded  to not uphold 
the complaint.  Svenska accepted my provisional  decision. Mr W disagreed. In summary, 
Mr S said on his behalf:
 no consideration was given  to Svenskas standard  terms and conditions of business.  
Ref: DRN69864273These terms should align  with Svenskas  regulatory  requirements and the banking  
code of practice
 the £10,000 payment into the account on 10 January 2018 was not out of the 
ordinary given the nature of Ms business. In Svenskas  terms and conditions,  the 
only exception to the three months  notice period is where exceptional 
circumstances apply.  And there are none that apply here 
when Svenska terminated the account on 12 January 2018,  M was not provided with    
any reason and to date,  it is still not known why the account was prematurely closed. 
Compliance with Regulations  should  not be used to avoid revealing the real reason 
for breaching  the contract and this is exactly what has happened here. Svenska 
should detail what exceptional circumstances apply
M suspects that it was a decision made  due to personal prejudices
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision.
Mr W wants more  exact  information on the obligations banks must have regard to and this is 
understandable. But it is not for me to detail them in this decision. There are various UK 
primary and secondary laws as well as regulations set by the industry regulator  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. The regulatory  and legal obligations banks must follow is public  
information which Mr W and his representative are free to research. 
Mr W says he is the victim  of discrimination by Svenska. But, while I appreciate  this is his 
perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken  place as a matter of 
law  only the courts have  the power  to decide  this. I have, however, considered  the relevant 
law in relation to what Mr W has said when  deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable 
outcome. Part of this has meant considering the provisions  of The Equality  Act 2010. But 
after doing  so Ive not seen evidence to indicate Mr W was discriminated on the grounds of 
his nationality, so I havent found  that Svenska s behaviour was improper.
I understand Mr W thinks there is no basis for Svenska to have closed Ms accounts 
immediately. But Ive also had to consider Mr Ws position alongside all the wider information  
available to me, including the regulatory  and legal  obligations Svenska must balance  when 
taking decisions.  And in doing so, Im satisfied Svenska made  a legitimate and proportionate 
decision in closing Ms accounts. This doesnt of course mean that I think Mr W has 
committed any crime or wrongdoing. That is not what I need to decide; nor was it required of 
Svenska to decide  in order to take the action they did.
Most banking contracts will include a clause allowing  the bank to immediately terminate the 
banking relationship in exceptional circumstances. The thrust  of Mr Ws argument is that 
Svenska has wrongly considered the £10,000  on 10 January 2018 payment, which  triggered  
the immediate  closure  of Ms accounts, to be an exceptional circumstance. I dont agree. Im 
satisfied that Svenskas  decision to close Ms accounts was reasonable and held in good 
faith. The terms and conditions entitled the business to review  the account  and the 
Ref: DRN69864274information Ive seen supports that Svenska was not acting  unreasonably  and could close 
the account despite previously saying notice would be given.
Mr W has argued Svenska has breached the terms and conditions of the account.  But as 
Ive explained  Svenska  is entitled to close the account as it did. And its not obliged to 
provide an explanation  as much as Mr W would like to know.  In other  words,  there  has 
been no breach  of contract because Svenska has acted in accordance with the account 
terms and conditions.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr W feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  and worrying time. So, I realise  Mr W will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, and for the reasons Ive explained,  I cant  say 
Svenska have acted  unreasonably and treated Mr W unfairly when it closed Ms accounts.  
So, Im not going  to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6986427