K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) defaulted her loan account 
after it made mistakes with her direct  debit payments. 
background
Miss K had a Halifax loan with a monthly payment of £242. In December 2017 Miss K 
agreed a payment plan with Halifax to pay £100  a month for three months  because  she was 
experiencing some financial  difficulties. 
There were problems setting up the direct  debit payment and Halifax  took £242  from Miss K 
in January 2018. The payment was returned to Miss K around  a week later when she called 
from abroad. Miss K complained and explained  that calling from abroad  was expensive. 
Halifax paid her £80 to cover call costs and said a new direct debit needed to be set up. 
During the call Miss K asked how to arrange  a new direct debit and the call handler said she 
could do that online and was asked to call back if she had any issues.  But that wasnt  right 
as to set up a new direct debit Halifax had to send Miss K a new form to fill out, she couldnt 
set one up online. 
No further payments were made to the loan and Halifax  took action to default the loan, 
sending a default notice to Miss H in March 2018. 
On 7 June 2018 Miss K called  Halifax and asked about her account. Miss K said she wasnt 
working and didnt have the money to make payments to the loan or agree a payment plan. 
Halifax agreed to put a 30 day hold on the account  to allow Miss K some time to consider 
her options.  
Miss K called back on 3 July 2018 and discussed what  had happened.  Halifax said a further 
30 day hold would be put in place but it took the step of defaulting  the loan account on 
11 July 2018 and Miss K complained. Halifax agreed itd promised to put another hold on the 
account but still defaulted it and paid Miss K £150 for the upset caused. But Halifax said the 
decision to default  the account  was reasonable and didnt offer to remove  it. 
Miss K referred her complaint to this service  and an investigator looked at it. They thought 
Halifax had dealt with Miss Ks complaint  fairly so didnt recommend it do anything else or 
remove the default. Miss K remains unhappy and asked  for her complaint to be appealed so 
its been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at the timeline of this complaint and I can see Halifax did give Miss H 
confusing information  about her direct  debits. Ive listened to Miss Ks call with Halifax from 
February 2018 and I didnt feel she was given clear and easy to understand information 
about whatd happened with her payments and what she needed to do to arrange a new 
direct debit. I accept that Miss K was told to try and arrange a new direct debit online and 
call back if there were  any problems, but the call was around an hour and a half long and I 
dont think that advice was clearly explained.  
Ref: DRN65946552That being  said,  I do think Miss K was aware  that there had been problems with her 
payments up until that point. And I understand Miss K was abroad at the time which made  
getting in contact more difficult but it doesnt  appear  she made contact with Halifax  again to 
check her loan payments  until June  2018  on her return to the UK. Given  thered been 
problems with Miss Ks payments, I think Halifax could reasonably have expected  her to get 
in touch if she thought the issues hadnt been resolved. 
And whilst I agree Halifax couldve been clearer, I havent found that it was the banks 
actions that led to the loan defaulting. Ill explain why. 
Miss K agreed a temporary  payment plan for three months in December 2017. Halifax  
agreed she could  make three payments of £100.  But there was no long term payment plan in 
place or any agreement Miss K could continue to pay that amount past the three months. 
Miss K didnt contact  Halifax  again  to rearrange a new payment plan after the three months 
had passed and it appears  she wasnt able to maintain the loan payments.
 
Miss K didnt contact  Halifax  again  after the call in February 2018 until she returned  to the 
UK in June 2018. At that stage, she told Halifax she wasnt working and couldnt start 
making repayments again. Halifax  agreed to allow some breathing space for a month but 
Miss K wasnt able to start payments in July 2018 either. Given the length of time since a 
payment had been made I dont think Halifaxs decision to default  the loan was unfair  at this 
stage.
Halifax has also explained that if Miss K had continued to make reduced  payments of £100 
the account wouldve still been  defaulted. Thats because her contractual  payments were 
around £242 so the reduced temporary  payment of £100 agreed in December 2017 wouldnt 
have stopped fairly large arrears building  up. Looking at all the available evidence, Ive not 
found Halifax unreasonably defaulted  the loan.
Halifax told Miss K it would agree another months breathing space when she called at the 
beginning of July 2018 but took the step of defaulting the loan before that time had passed. I 
agree that the service here was poor but I dont think means  Halifax  should remove  the 
default. 
Halifax paid Miss K £80 for call costs in February 2018 and £150 for incorrectly  telling her itd 
put a hold on the loan account for a month in July 2018. From  what  Ive seen, Im satisfied 
the settlements  paid fairly reflect the impact of Halifaxs  errors  on Miss K so Im not telling it 
to increase its offer. 
As Ive said above,  I havent found that Halifaxs decision to default  the loan was caused by 
the direct  debit errors and I think it acted reasonably when it took that step. As a result,  Im 
not telling  Halifax  to take any further  action to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept  or reject my decision 
before 13 March 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6594655