K820x#14complaint
Mr S and his representative are unhappy with Tesco Personal Finance PLCs  offer of 
compensation for the way it dealt  with him after a credit card was fraudulently  taken out in 
his name.  
background
In 2013 someone  fraudulently took out a credit  card in Mr Ss name. Tesco  said it would 
cancel the card and update his credit  file. Mr S says he was unable to get credit for a car 
purchase in 2015  and 2018. He believes this was as a result of the fraudulent credit card still 
being on his credit report, causing his credit  rating  to be poor.  And as a result he couldnt get 
credit and lost out on a deal for a car he wanted  which wouldve saved him thousands of 
pounds. 
Tesco said in its final response that the fraudulent account  was closed correctly but it didnt 
tell the credit bureau in 2013.  It accepted this wasnt an acceptable level of service and it 
apologised. It offered  Mr S £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
Mr S said this wasnt enough and he wanted  more.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
A screen  shot of Mr S credit  report shows he had a rating of 452 out of 999 which  is 
very poor. The only defaulted  account  shown is the Tesco credit card taken out in 
May 2013. Its more  likely than not that this is the fraudulent card taken out in Mr S 
name. And thats the cause  of his poor credit rating.
But there are many  different checks a finance provider does in order  to determine 
whether or not its prepared to lend money.  Theres no information  from the finance  
provider as to why it declined to give Mr S credit. So, he cant  safely conclude the 
poor credit rating caused by the fraudulent card was the sole reason.
Theres also nothing to show that after the fraudulent card was taken off Mr S credit 
report that he went back and bought  the car at a higher price. He hasnt apparently  
suffered any financial  loss as a result of Tescos error. So, Tescos  offer of £150 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience Mr S has suffered is fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr S doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says even though  he 
hasnt suffered a financial  loss he didnt  get the car he wanted.  He would like £300 
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco accepts it made a mistake in 2013  and didnt remove the fraudulent  credit card from 
Mr S credit file as it shouldve  done.  I agree with the investigator that its more likely this had 
an adverse affect  on Mr S credit rating than not. But Tesco  has now corrected the record.
Ref: DRN69542432I understand Mr S frustration at being  refused credit  by a finance  provider when  he wanted 
to buy a car. But, as the investigator  has said, we dont  know exactly  why credit was 
declined at that time and particularly what effect  Tescos error had on that decision,  if any.
Mr S hasnt actually suffered any financial loss as a result. Even so I accept he was clearly 
disappointed at losing  out on buying a car he wanted and he has been  caused some 
distress and inconvenience as a result  of Tescos error.  I think  this warrants  an award of 
some compensation.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think Tescos offer 
of £150 compensation for this is fair. And I dont think  I can reasonably ask it to pay Mr S any 
more as hed like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case. I 
simply leave it to Mr S to decide,  if he hasnt already done so, whether he now wishes  to 
accept Tescos offer of compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6954243