K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that under her contract  hire agreement she has with Ald Automotive 
Limited (Ald). It settled  a parking charge  without  giving her the opportunity to appeal  it.
background
Mrs S is represented, for ease any comments or actions done by the representative will be 
referred to as Mrs S.
Mrs S entered into a contract hire agreement with Ald in April 2017 for the hire of a car. In 
November 2018  Mrs S paid to park the car. Unfortunately she didnt  realise she had keyed  in 
the wrong vehicle  registration number and as a result a parking penalty was issued.  The 
penalty notice  dated 13 December was sent to Ald as the registered owners of the car. The 
parking charge was £100 but if it was paid within 14 days  it would be discounted to £60. 
Ald paid the penalty later than the 14 days.  But it says it has only passed  on the £60 fine to 
Mrs S. It has also invoiced her £42 administration fee plus VAT, total £102.
Mrs S is unhappy that Ald didnt pass the penalty notice to her when it received it. This 
wouldve given her the opportunity to provide evidence to show  that she had purchased a 
parking ticket and to dispute the penalty with the parking company. She feels if Ald had 
given her the time to dispute the penalty she wouldnt have to pay the admin fee.
Ald says it doesnt take up individual appeals with parking companies. And failure to take 
appropriate action  will leave it liable for the charge  if the matter is escalated  further and the 
costs could also increase.  So, they say they had no choice  but the pay the charge and 
re-charge Mrs S.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought that it was reasonable for Ald to 
have settled the charge and pass on the administration costs as per the terms and 
conditions of the hire agreement.
 
Mrs S didnt agree as she feels that Ald shouldve informed  her of the parking ticket prior to 
settling it. This wouldve enabled her to intervene early and have the penalty withdrawn.
Mrs S said the parking  company  has a limited appeal process and when Ald paid the penalty  
charge the parking company considers the matter  closed. So the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account the terms and conditions  of the hire agreement. 
Ref: DRN63168612Under section 4, the term says:
IMPORTANT: Potential Financial Responsibilities of the Customer  for Claims, Fines,  
Damage, Charges and Fees
..the Customer agrees  to indemnify and keep indemnified Kia Contract Hire against any 
sums incurred or losses suffered as a result of: 
b. any fines, fees, charges, Invoices or other penalties  resulting from use of the Vehicle 
contrary to any applicable  laws; motoring offences  or violation from traffic or parking 
regulations or restrictions ...'
It also says: 
'The Customer agrees  to pay, upon  Kia Contract  Hire's demand,  Kia
Contract Hire's  reasonable administration charges and any other reasonable costs or fees 
incurred by Kia Contract Hire directly  resulting from the breach  by the Customer of any of its
obligations under  this Agreement...'
I think that the terms make it clear  that Mrs S would have to pay any penalties  in connection 
with the use of the vehicle  and I think it is reasonable to conclude  that the parking charge is 
a penalty. The penalty charge is in the name  of the registered owner   Ald. I cant say that it 
was unreasonable for it to pay the charge to prevent further action and costs and I dont 
think it made any mistake by doing  so.
I understand Mrs S feels strongly that if she had known of the penalty at the time she 
wouldve had an opportunity to dispute  it at an earlier stage and get the penalty  withdrawn.
Im sympathetic to Mrs S situation.  I can see that she paid for a parking ticket in good faith 
and hadnt realised that the wrong vehicle registration number had been entered when 
purchasing the ticket.  I also understand that the parking company indicated to Mrs S that if it 
had been disputed earlier in the process they would've considered waiving  the charge. 
However, consider  doesnt mean  it wouldve actually  waived the charge. 
Ive also seen the subsequent emails between Mrs S and the parking company. It continues 
to say the penalty charge  was issued correctly. So I think on balance it unlikely that it 
wouldve waived the charge even  if Mrs S had appealed it earlier.  But as our investigator  has 
already explained this service isnt able to look into the actions of the parking company as it 
not a regulated financial service within our jurisdiction. If Mrs S wants  to take the matter 
further she would have to complain directly  to the parking company.
I understand Mrs S is also unhappy that the administration charge has been applied to the 
invoice sent to her from Ald. But regardless if Ald sent the penalty  charge at the time of issue  
or after it paid it as it did in this case  Mrs S wouldve always been liable under the terms and 
conditions to pay an administration fee. It follows that I think  the administration  charge made 
by Ald is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It is explained in the terms and conditions 
and I think it is a reasonable  charge  to reflect the costs involved in dealing  with the parking 
charge.
I will therefore not be asking Ald to do anything more on this complaint. I know this isnt the 
answer Mrs S was hoping  for. And so my decision will likely come  as a disappointment  to 
her. But I hope  she can understand  why Ive decided  this is a fair outcome for the reasons 
Ive explained.
Ref: DRN63168613my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive given above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 16 October  2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6316861