K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2002 and amended in 2007. Mr H and Ms J say Nationwide Building  Society  (trading as 
Derbyshire Building  Society (DBS)) mis-sold them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr H and Ms Js case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold  because:
Mr H and Ms J previously had a mortgage  with DBS. And on that occasion they declined 
the option of taking MPPI. Mr H and Ms J also declined  the option  of amending their 
policy to cover  the further  advance  they took out in 2005.  So I think  that Mr H and Ms J 
wouldve known they couldve  had a mortgage with DBS without taking the MPPI. And 
overall I think that DBS made it clear Mr H and Ms J didnt  have  to take out the MPPI but 
they chose to initially take it in 2002  and amend it in 2007   although I can understand 
why they might not remember  this given just how long ago it happened.
DBS recommended the MPPI to Mr H and Ms J, on both occasions, so it had to check  
that it was right for them.  Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. The policy  provided  only unemployment cover  for Mr H who appears to 
have been the main wage earner. So it looks like the recommendation did reflect the 
sick pay Mr H says he entitled to. Equally while  Mr H might have been entitled  to a 
redundancy payment in the event of being made unemployed, the policy wouldve paid 
out in addition to this. So I think it provided a useful  benefit  especially as it was 
protecting the payments to Mr H and Ms Js mortgage and Mr H was the main wage 
earner. Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover 
either.   
Its possible  the information DBS gave Mr H and Ms J about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think better  information  about the 
MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover in the first place. 
Ive thought about everything Mr H and Ms J have  said  including what  theyve  said about 
Mr H never  facing the prospect of redundancy and still being  employed by the same 
employer. But these  are arguments made with the benefit of hindsight  and wouldnt have 
been known at the time of the respective sales. So these  points  dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr H and Ms J paid on their MPPI  and whether 
DBS treated them unfairly.  
DBS has told us that the commission for Mr H and Ms Js MPPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how DBS has been  working  this out and based  
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr H and Ms Js commission was less than half 
the cost of the MPPI.  As thats  the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about the 
Ref: DRN62116812commission  so I dont  think  DBS treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to pay 
Mr H and Ms J back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6211681