K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Zurich Assurance Ltd didnt cancel his Level Protection Plan when he 
asked it to. 
background
In 2012 Mr M took out a Level Protection Plan with Zurich  through  his independent financial 
adviser (who  Ill call A). 
On 22 July 2016 A emailed Zurich attaching a letter from Mr M. The letter said Mr M wanted 
to cancel the plan from 31 July 2016. It asked for written confirmation  to be sent to A. It also 
said if any further information was needed to contact A. 
Zurich replied to A by email on 22 July 2016 saying the quoted  plan number didnt relate to 
Mr M. It asked A to check the plan number and confirm which plan Mr M wanted to cancel. 
A emailed Zurich again on 24 August  2018. It said the plan hadnt been  cancelled as 
requested. It asked for Mr Ms premiums to be returned from July 2016. 
Zurich explained  the plan hadnt been  cancelled in July 2016 because the correct plan 
number hadnt  been provided.  It said as the plan hadnt been  cancelled it had continued to 
collect Mr Ms monthly premium. It explained that as it had continued to provide cover for 
Mr M, it couldnt  refund the premiums hed paid. But it confirmed the direct debit instruction 
had now been  cancelled and so the policy would be cancelled automatically  once three  
premiums had been missed.  
Mr M referred his complaint to our service.  He said A hadnt received Zurichs email  asking  
for correct plan details.  He also said Zurich had failed to follow up on the email when it didnt 
receive a response  and made no effort to carry out his instructions.   
Our investigator considered the complaint  and found Zurich had acted fairly and reasonably 
in the circumstances. He was satisfied  Zurich had emailed A at the correct address. He 
didnt consider Zurich  was required  to chase a response when none was received. He also 
noted that Zurich  continued to collect the monthly  premium and issued annual statements, 
which would have alerted Mr M to the fact the policy hadnt been cancelled. 
A disagreed on Mr Ms behalf and asked for the case to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
said that Mr M was Zurichs customer, so it should  have corresponded  directly with him 
rather than A. It said Zurich hadnt  treated  Mr M fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator. 
Mr Ms plan provided very valuable  protection. So I wouldnt expect Zurich to cancel it 
without a clear and unequivocal instruction to do so. As Mr Ms letter contained an incorrect 
plan number it wasnt clear what plan needed to be cancelled. 
Ref: DRN61672342Zurich has demonstrated  that it replied to As email  on the same  day asking for the correct 
plan number. A says it didnt receive this. But I note it was sent to the same email  address 
Zurich received the request from, and in fact the same email address thats been provided  to 
our service.  So Im satisfied Zurich made a reasonable  attempt to notify  A that the 
cancellation couldnt be processed without  more information. I wouldnt have expected 
Zurich to do any more  than it did.
I know A considers that Zurich should have contacted Mr M directly to follow  up on the 
correct details, but I disagree. Mr Ms letter of cancellation clearly  states  that if further 
information was needed Zurich should contact A. I consider this to be a clear instruction to 
Zurich to deal with A and not Mr M. So I think it was entirely reasonable for Zurich to contact 
A and not Mr M. 
Ive also noted  that Mr Ms letter asked for written confirmation to be sent to A once the 
policy had been  cancelled. As no written  confirmation was received I think this would have 
put Mr M and A on notice  that the policy hadnt been cancelled.  Zurich also continued to 
collect the monthly premiums and sent annual statements  again  demonstrating  that the 
cancellation hadnt been processed. So I cant say Zurich  did anything  to make Mr M or A 
think the cancellation had been processed. 
As Mr M continued to pay the monthly  premium after July 2016, Zurich  wouldve been 
required to honour  any claims that were  made  during this time.  As such,  I consider  its fair for 
Zurich to retain the premiums it collected throughout this time, even though Mr M may not 
have intended  to be covered anymore. 
In view of everything,  I cant say Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably and I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6167234