K820x#14complain
Mr T complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen 
Finance (VWFS), overcharged him for extending  his lease.
background
Mr T hired  a car from VWFS in August 2015 for 24 months at the cost of £529.19 per month; 
the lease was due to end in August 2017.
Mr T contacted VWFS about extending the lease in February 2017 and June 2017. On each 
occasion VWFS sent Mr T formal extension quotes  to be signed and returned  within  seven 
days. Mr T didnt return either  quote  in time, so they lapsed. 
Mr T got in touch with VWFS again in July 2017. He was advised that the previous quote  
had expired and was sent a new quote to extend  his hire for 12 months at £462.23 per 
month; the quote  was valid for seven  days.  When Mr T returned  the signed  paperwork in 
October 2017, VWFS let him know that the quote  was no longer  valid and asked him if he 
wanted another quote to extend his lease; Mr T didnt respond.
Mr Ts hire agreement  ended on 6 August 2017. There was no further contact or payments 
from Mr T, so VWFS instructed an agent  to collect the car. The car was collected  in August 
2018. 
VWFS sent Mr T an invoice for £6,685.56 charging him for the 379 extra  days hed used the 
car. Mr T complained to VWFS. He said he should  only be invoiced for the extra twelve  
months at £446.30 per month in the July 2017  quote, as he had returned the paperwork.
VWFS didnt  uphold the complaint. It said that the July 2017  quote had expired and as Mr T 
didnt have a formal agreement in place  to extend his hire, it was entitled to charge him for 
the extra days use in line with his agreement.
Unhappy with VWFS response, Mr T brought his complaint  to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  She thought VWFS was entitled  to charge Mr T for 
the extra days hire in accordance with the agreement, so she didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld.
Mr T disagreed. He thought VWFS should have done more  to get in touch with him and said 
it should have  collected the car sooner than it did. He asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
I can see that VWFS sent Mr T letters in advance to let him know  his hire agreement  would  
end on 6 August  2017. I also think Mr T should have  been aware from the formal  extension 
paper work, that VWFS required a signed  quote  to be returned within  seven days  in order to 
activate a formal  extension agreement. 
Ref: DRN62078052Mr T accepts that he didnt return the last formal extension quote that VWFS sent him on 21 
July 2017 until October  2017. However, he doesnt  think it is fair for VWFS to charge him on 
a daily basis for the extra  days he kept the car, after his agreement  ended. He thinks  VWFS 
should honour the £446.30 per month for 12 months  as he signed  and returned  this quote.
As Mr T did not return  the extension quote in time,  Im satisfied there was no formal 
agreement in place  to extend  his lease. In the circumstances  Ive looked at the hire 
agreement to see what VWFS is entitled to charge  Mr T for his continued use of the car, 
after the lease  ended.
Section 11 of Mr Ts agreement states:
If you do not return the vehicle promptly at the end of the hiring periods or on termination of 
the hiring. You will pay us compensation when  we ask. You agree that the amount of such 
compensation (being a pre-estimate of the damage we will suffer as a result  of such  later 
return) will be a sum equal to one thirtieth  of the rental amount shown on page 1 for each 
day after the date on which  you should  have returned the vehicle up to and including  the 
date on which you actually return the vehicle or we recover it.
VWFS has charged Mr T on a daily basis for the 379 extra  days hire at £14.70 (one thirtieth  
of the monthly  rental of £529.19), plus VAT. VWFS has explained that it has added  VAT 
because a lease  agreement is treated as a supply of services for tax purposes. In the 
circumstances I think this is reasonable.  Having considered VWFS calculation I think  this is 
in line with the hire agreement  Mr T signed  and his continued  use of the car after the end of 
its contractual term. So I think VWFS is entitled  to charge Mr T the total invoiced. 
Mr T says that VWFS should have done  more to get in touch  with him or collected the car 
sooner than it did. And whilst I understand his point, I also think  Mr T had an obligation to 
return the car to VWFS or get in touch with it to arrange a formal  extension.  VWFS made Mr 
T aware that there was no formal  extension agreement in place, but he continued  to use the 
car, without  making  any further payments and didnt return it. In the circumstances, I dont 
think it is unfair for VWFS to charge Mr T for his continued use of the car. 
For the reasons  Ive outlined above, I dont  uphold this complaint. I now leave it to Mr T to 
get in touch with VWFS  appointed debt collection  agency to arrange repayment.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62078053
Ref: DRN6207805