K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs H took out a joint mortgage  and PPI to protect their monthly mortgage 
repayments if they couldnt  work. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened.  
Mr and Mrs H are mainly  concerned that PPI wasnt ever explained to them and they said it 
wasnt something they took out. Mr and Mrs H dont feel they wouldve needed the policy  
and theyre unhappy about  the way our adjudicator reached the view he came  to.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  
During their mortgage application process, Mr and Mrs H completed a separate  application 
for PPI. They indicated they wanted  to set the policy up to cover  them  both. They provided 
details of the loan they wanted to cover.  They opted  to split the policy benefits between them 
unequally so that Mr H had the most  cover. So it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs H must have 
decided to take out this insurance and discussed how they wanted  to share the cover  
between them. 
Mr and Mrs H both signed the PPI application confirming they wanted to apply for the cover. 
And they also set up payment arrangements at their bank to cover the monthly PPI cost. Ive 
taken into account  what Mr and Mrs H have  said about the PPI not being clearly described.  
But, I think they wouldve  understood that the PPI wasnt included  with their mortgage  and it 
was up to them to say if they wanted  to have it. On balance,  I find that Lloyds did do enough  
to make it clear that the policy was available as an option to protect their mortgage  monthly  
repayments. And I think that Mr and Mrs H chose  to take out this cover  knowing they 
couldve declined it if they didnt want to have it. 
Lloyds recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs H. If a financial business makes a recommendation 
about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable 
as well as giving important policy information  in a clear  way. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, I think  PPI was suitable  for them.
Ref: DRN62815172Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date when 
Mr and Mrs H took out their mortgage. But it has provided a policy  document which  was in 
use shortly afterwards. And Ive checked the terms in policy documents  that were in use 
before and after Mr and Mrs H signed up for their policy.  In all main respects the policies had 
similar terms and conditions. So I think its reasonable to rely on this information and I think 
its likely  that the policy  Mr and Mrs H took out wouldve had substantially the same terms 
and conditions.
Mr and Mrs H were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. And the way the benefit  was split between them seems 
reasonable as they were both responsible for paying  the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H couldnt rely on getting  sick pay from their employers. The policy  wouldve 
covered their mortgage repayments (plus some  extra) and paid out in full for up to 
12 months per claim. Mr H told us he was only able to depend on getting statutory sick pay. 
So I think the PPI couldve provided  a useful  benefit at whats  likely to have been a difficult 
time for Mr and Mrs H  especially if they mightve  faced extra costs as a result of one (or 
both of them) being  ill or having  a disability. The policy wouldve also paid out in the event 
that Mr H or Mrs H became  unexpectedly  unemployed. 
After the full amount of benefit had been  paid under  the policy,  Mr and Mrs H couldve 
applied again  for cover  after being back at work for 6 months.  In this way, the policy offered 
them long term cover for their mortgage.  
Death in service benefit provides a different sort of cover and pays out in different 
circumstances to PPI. And depending  on other people to help out in the event  of money 
problems isnt as reliable as having PPI as everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. 
So I think PPI offered  Mr and Mrs H useful protection  and it was suitable for them. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But Mr and Mrs H were  both in full time 
employment and in good health when they took out the PPI and it doesnt look as if they 
were affected by any of the main conditions limiting  the policys benefits. So, even if all the 
policy terms and conditions werent  explained  as clearly as they shouldve  been, I dont think 
having more information about what wasnt covered  wouldve  put them off taking it out.
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs H chose to take out the policy 
when they couldve  said they didnt want to. So it appears to me they did want  to have this 
type of cover. I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve understood  they were paying  for the cover 
when they set up separate payment arrangements for the policy. And it doesnt look as if the 
policy was an expense  they couldnt afford  so the cost didnt make  it unsuitable  for them.   
This means  that, on balance,  I dont find that Mr and Mrs H lost out as a result of anything 
that Lloyds may have  done wrong.  So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN62815173my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6281517