K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined their claim on their 
home insurance policy following a theft from Mr Js car, and their details were passed to 
fraud prevention agencies.
background
A thief stole a rucksack  from the boot of Mr Js car, and shortly afterwards Mrs J phoned  UKI 
to report a claim for his rucksack and laptop. The police found the rucksack on the day of the 
theft and returned it to Mr J. However,  his laptop was missing. In the afternoon, Mr J posted  
a message on his social media account stating  his laptop had been  stolen.  In the evening,  
he phoned UKI and explained that a camera and two camera  lenses  had also been stolen 
from the rucksack; and these further items cost £1,050.
Two days later, Mr J posted another message on his social  media account, stating that his 
rucksack had been found with everything  but his laptop.
About two weeks later, UKIs appointed  claim handlers held a telephone interview with Mr J 
about the claim. UKI says during the call, Mr J advised he had discovered his laptop, two 
camera lenses, a phone battery charger, and his headphones had been stolen when his 
rucksack was returned by the police. UKI says that Mr J clarified he had since found  the 
camera he had also claimed for, in another bag in his car; and his second  social media 
message about  all items being recovered apart  from his laptop  was referring to work 
paperwork. 
UKIs claim  handlers subsequently  requested a copy of the police report, which  was received 
five months later.  The police report explains that when Mr Js rucksack was returned to him, 
he confirmed the only item missing  was his laptop. Soon afterwards, UKIs claim handlers  
wrote to Mr J to explain it had concerns that the claim had been exaggerated.
In response, Mr J highlighted that not everybody reveals everything on social  media, and he 
expressed his disbelief  his social media  posts were being relied  upon.  He also explained he 
was in shock on the day of the theft and he said a lot happened  in a short  space of time.  He 
provided a picture  of the rucksack  and its five pockets, noting the pocket where  he always  
kept his laptop and the depth  of the pocket  where he says the camera  lenses were. He 
concluded his laptop and camera lenses  had been stolen.
UKIs claim  handlers then wrote to Mr J to confirm its claim exaggeration concerns remained  
and it wouldnt be settling  the claim.  It relied on the following reasons:
-During the telephone interview,  Mr J explained he had discovered anything  of value 
had been stolen when his rucksack was handed back to him, including  all the items 
now being claimed for. However,  the police report states that only his laptop was 
found to be missing.
-In Mr Js written  response to the concerns, he said his laptop and camera lenses had 
been stolen, and he hadnt initially realised  about  the camera  lenses because they 
were in a deep pocket  and he had forgotten they were there. This contradicts what 
Mr J said in the telephone interview when he said he discovered the items being 
claimed for had been stolen at the time the rucksack was handed  back.
Ref: DRN68986032-Mr Js written response is also inconsistent about what  items had been stolen as the 
phone battery charger and headphones  arent  mentioned.
-Its reasonable to expect Mr J to have checked  the rucksack fully when it was handed 
back to him, to check what was missing.  Theres also been plenty of opportunity  for 
him to contact the police to notify it of the other  items, but he hasnt done  so.
-Mr Js social media  posts refer to the rucksack being returned with everything  but the 
laptop.
A month later, UKI wrote  to Mr and Mrs J reiterating  its claim handlers findings, and it said 
Mr and Mrs J had breached the fraud condition set out in the policy  terms. UKI explained 
that the policy would be cancelled from the date of the claim, without a refund of their 
premiums; and it would be sharing details with fraud prevention  agencies.
Mr and Mrs J brought  their complaint to this service. Mr J explained  he hadnt mentioned his 
camera lenses on his social media  post as he was embarrassed to admit this loss. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint, but she thought UKI had acted fairly. Because 
Mr and Mrs J disagreed,  their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Its not in dispute  that Mr J was the victim  of a theft, and that his laptop was stolen. However,  
UKI says the inconsistencies surrounding the other  items supports  that the claim was 
deliberately exaggerated.
As per the policy terms, if a policyholder attempts to fraudulently exaggerate their claim, UKI 
can decline  the claim in its entirety  and cancel the policy.  The terms also explain it will share 
details with fraud prevention agencies. 
It isnt for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs Js claim was fraudulent or not. Instead,  it is for 
me to decide  whether UKI has acted fairly and reasonably when relying on the policy fraud  
condition, based  on the information it has. So, UKI needs to show the claim  was, on the 
balance of probabilities, exaggerated;  and therefore, based on its investigations,  it was 
reasonable for it to decline the claim and cancel the policy.
Mr J has indicated his laptop was routinely kept in the rucksack,  so I consider it likely  that he 
would have accessed the rucksack regularly. Having seen a photo of the rucksack, Im not 
persuaded its particularly large  or that he wouldnt have noticed other items in there when 
putting his laptop and work papers away. So, in my view, UKIs concerns about why Mr J 
definitively told the police only his laptop  was missing are not unreasonable.
Given it wasnt immediately obvious to Mr J that other items were missing from the rucksack  
when it was returned to him, I also consider there  to be a reasonable question about why he 
added the camera  and camera lenses to the claim,  without first checking if the items were 
elsewhere in his possession  like the camera was.
Ref: DRN68986033Mr J also hasnt disputed he told UKIs claims handlers, during the telephone interview, that 
he noted the items being claimed  for missing  when his rucksack  was returned to him, which 
contradicts what he reported  to the police. Mr J hasnt explained this discrepancy despite  it 
being put to him.
Whilst I accept  what  Mr J says about  not disclosing every detail on social media,  the camera  
equipment was of significant value; and even if he had found the camera  before his second 
social media post, the camera lenses were still valued at £600. So, in the context of Mr Js 
posts, the omission of these items was unusual, in my view. I therefore consider UKI acted 
fairly by noting the omission  as a concern. Im also not persuaded by Mr Js explanation he 
was embarrassed to admit a loss beyond his laptop. I consider it likely that had he been  
embarrassed by the theft, he wouldnt have posted anything at all. 
Im satisfied UKI completed a fair investigation  into Mr and Mrs Js loss, and it gave them fair 
opportunity to respond to its concerns. Having considered the inconsistencies UKI raised, 
and Mr and Mrs Js response  to those concerns, Im persuaded UKI acted  fairly  and 
reasonably by concluding the evidence, on balance, supports a breach of the fraud 
condition. 
It therefore follows that Im persuaded UKI treated Mr and Mrs J fairly by declining  their 
claim, cancelling their policy, and sharing the details with fraud prevention agencies.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs J, but for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont  uphold  
this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6898603