K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance  policy. 
background
Mr P said that towards the end of September 2018  a storm caused damage to the roof of 
some properties he owns.  Mr P rents out the properties and said he carried out some repairs  
prior to notifying UKI about a month  later.  
UKI appointed an inspector in November  2018  to assess the damage. The inspector 
reported that the roof had failed due to its age and wear and tear, and the storm only 
highlighted these  issues. UKI therefore declined  the claim as the damage wasnt  caused by 
a one-off storm event.   
Mr P disagreed and said UKI was aware the roof was 100 years old when he took out the 
policy. He said he had no reason to inspect  the roof given it was in working  order  prior to the 
storm, and previous repairs had been  carried out in order to maintain it. So he raised a 
complaint with UKI. 
UKI wrote to Mr P in February 2019 with its final response. It maintained it didnt agree the 
main cause of the damage was due to a one-off storm event.  As Mr P disagreed, he brought  
a complaint to our service for consideration. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. He was more  persuaded that the storm only 
highlighted issues with Mr Ps roof and didnt think UKI had acted  unfairly by declining  the 
claim. 
Mr P disagreed. He maintained that UKI was aware  of the age of the roof and that damage 
was caused by a one-off storm event. As Mr P disagreed with our investigator, the case  has 
been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will disappoint Mr P, Im not upholding  this complaint. I will now explain why. 
When looking at complaint about  a declined claim relating to storm damage, there are a 
number of things  I need to consider:
Were storm  conditions present on or around  the date the damage is said to have 
happened? 
Is the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically  causes? 
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
Ive carried out checks to determine whether a storm took place on or around the time Mr P 
said damage occurred.  And Im satisfied there were strong gales and rainfall  around that 
time. So I think its fair to say stormy conditions were present when damage was noted.  And 
UKI has accepted  a storm did occur so theres  no dispute here anyway. 
Ref: DRN68066082I understand the second question isnt in dispute  either. Given  there  were  strong  gales and 
rainfall, I consider  that the damage  Mr P reported  is consistent with the type of weather 
conditions that were recorded eight  miles from Mr Ps properties  around the time he said the 
damage occurred. 
What I must consider is whether UKIs  conclusion that the storm wasnt  the main cause of 
the damage was fair and reasonable. And having  weighed up all of the evidence, I dont 
agree with Mr P that UKI has acted unreasonably  in this case. 
UKI provided  a report which said: 
From our survey of the front and rear to all three properties, the slates  roofs which  are 
over one hundred  years  old were in poor condition as historical repairs  were evident  
with lead tingles  visible in many places. On the rear roof missing/slipped slates were  
evident just below the ridge to number  42 leaving a small hole in the roof. We also 
noted perished mortar and pointing to the ridge and chimney stacks  respectively, 
which is a normal wear  and tear issue. In our opinion the slipped slates are consistent  
with age related  defects  to the slate roof which will be suffering nail fatigue etc and we 
did note that neighbouring  houses including the next-door property has had the original 
slate roof now replaced. Any recent winds in our opinion have merely highlighting the 
ongoing issue which would  be classed  as normal wear and tear and not classed as a 
one-off instance  of storm. 
The inspector that visited  Mr Ps property concludes his report with the following: 
 survey conclusion; 
As per the external  comments there is no evidence of any damage  from a one off 
insured event (repairs  completed and appears  consistent with age related defects on 
slates roof and fixings)  and as such the claim has been repudiated. 
The report  in my view is compelling.  It also provides photographs  which  Ive taken into 
account. And having reviewed those with the above  commentary from the expert  in mind, Im 
in agreement with our investigator  that UKI hasnt acted unreasonably  here.  
I appreciate Mr P said UKI knew about the age of his roof. But I dont think that has any 
bearing on the outcome. A roof might  well be old but still able to weather stormy conditions. 
In Mr Ps case, I think the storm highlighted issues of wear and tear with his roof that will 
need to be rectified  with effective and long lasting maintenance repairs. Something  I dont 
consider his policy provides cover for. 
In my view, the photographs show that the roof likely  had issues  that were  highlighted during 
the poor weather in September 2018.  And the report says the roof showed a number of 
slipped and missing tiles, perished mortar and other age related defects  that are a normal 
sign of wear and tear. I find the commentary  within the report is consistent  with what  Ive 
seen in the photographs. 
The report  shows Mr P had repairs carried out to parts of the roof previously. And whilst  Mr 
P may have taken  steps  to try to maintain the roof, Im more persuaded than not that there 
were issues  here that were highlighted by the stormy  conditions that were present in 
September 2018. 
Ref: DRN68066083The report  suggests  neighbouring roofs withstood  the stormy conditions,  but Mr Ps didnt 
due to the condition and age of it. Ive looked at the photographs to see whether  a 
comparison could be established. And its clear to me that neighbouring roofs were in a 
newer condition  than Mr Ps. But I dont  think this is evidence  that Mr Ps roof was in a poor 
state of repair. As Ive said above, an older roof can withstand poor weather, but I dont think 
Mr Ps did in this instance due to its condition. 
Overall, Im persuaded by the expert  opinion of the surveyor that the storm highlighted 
issues with Mr Ps roof. I agree his roof was showing signs of ageing, deterioration and wear 
and tear  which his policy  doesnt  provide cover for.  And in the circumstances of this case 
Ive concluded  that its fair and reasonable for UKI to decline the claim.  So I wont be asking 
UKI to do any more.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6806608