K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas)s handling of his claim for
accidental damage  to his classic car.
background 
Mr R held a motor insurance policy with Ageas for his classic car. In September 2017 the 
vehicle was damaged at a garage when  it fell from a ramp.  Mr R contacted Ageas to make a 
claim for the damage and was told that he was not covered under his policy.
Mr R went on to make a claim  against the garage for the damage to his vehicle. He selected 
his own repair garage and the cost of repair was met by the insurer for the original  garage.
Mr R said the repairs didnt fix the problems and the car remains  undriveable.
Mr R went back  to Ageas in July 2018 and explained the above events. At this time Ageas 
agreed incorrect information had been given in September 2017. They appointed an 
engineer to assess the damage to the vehicle in August 2018 and made an offer of £3, 250.
Mr R obtained his own engineer estimate,  which was for a higher amount, so he rejected 
Ageas offer.  Ageas  then retracted the offer and relied upon  an exclusion clause within the 
policy, namely:
General exceptions:
any liability, loss or damage that is also covered by any other insurance.
Mr R feels that Ageas  have treated him unfairly. Hes now left in a worse position and has
set out the distress and exasperation hes suffered. Mr R believes that he would  not have
been in this situation had the claim be dealt with by Ageas at the outset. Mr R would like to
recover the cost of repairs as assessed by his engineer  and the cost of obtaining his own
outlay for an engineers report.
Ageas accept that the wrong information  was given  in September 2017.  They  agree that 
Mr R was covered for accidental damage at the time, not limited to road traffic accidents.  
Ageas say that when Mr R raised  the claim with them again in July 2018, it was not their 
intention to deal with the claim post-repair,  theyve  said the vehicle was assessed  only to 
ascertain whether the amount paid by NIG was reasonable or not. Initially  they also denied  
that an offer had been made to Mr R.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Mr R hadnt told the insurer  about
the vehicle falling from the ramp,  but he had talked  about the exhaust being accidentally
ripped off. She thought  Mr R was incorrectly told he was not covered  for the damage.  But
our investigator thought  it was reasonable for Ageas  to rely on an exclusion clause when  
Mr R brought his claim back to them in 2018.  By this point, the garages insurer had paid for
repairs to the vehicle and poor workmanship was not covered under the policy. Our
investigator did think that Ageas had caused Mr R distress and inconvenience when they
said they couldnt help with his claim.  She recommended £200 in compensation and asked
for the claim to be removed from his record.
Mr R disagrees  with this view. He maintains that Ageas acted wrongly in not processing the
claim.
Ref: DRN65462952I wrote  a provisional decision in April 2019, in which I upheld the complaint. Both parties  
have accepted the outcome and suggested redress.
I have reviewed everything to reach my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further information has been provided  by the parties. Having reviewed the documents  
and my provisional decision, it is my view that it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint for the same reasons as given  in my provisional decision:
taking on the claim
Having listened  to the call from September 2017, I consider that Mr R was given the wrong
information when  he tried to make  a claim.  Whilst Mr R didnt say that the car had fallen from
a ramp he did talk about accidental damage to the exhaust. The adviser incorrectly  told Mr R
that he was only covered  for accidents  and later qualified that by adding  only accidents  on
the road. And I dont think its fair and reasonable to place any weight on the fact that Mr R
made no objection  to being  told there was no cover. It was understandable that Mr R relied
upon what he was told by his insurer, especially as the adviser  spent some  time going
through suggestions for other organisations that might be able to help him.
It doesnt appear to be disputed  that the vehicle required further repair  after work was paid
for by the third party  insurer.
handling the claim
Ageas have said they never intended  to deal with the claim when Mr R contacted  them in
July 2018. Theyve  said they were simply checking whether the other insurers offer was
reasonable. But when the claim was logged in 2018  the claims handler wrote, there  is still
the damage from the poor workmanship on the vehicle  so may be worth inspecting to make
sure we only deal with damage  from the fall. Its clear from that note that Ageas were
intending to consider the original claim at this stage. This is consistent with Mr Rs
recollection of events.
Its agreed that an inspection took place in August and an estimate for repair was given of
£3, 363.39. On balance  I prefer Mr Rs recollection  of events that an offer of £3, 250 was
then made.  Hes been consistent  about  this and this figure fits with the repair  estimate less
excess. Whilst I havent been  provided  with copy of call recordings, its clear from the notes
from the time that a discussion took place  about settlement. So I think  its more likely  than
not that an offer was made in August. Mr R says he rejected the offer because his engineer
said the cost of repair would be higher.
There are notes from September which say Ageas engineer was instructed again to see if
the offer authorised by the third party insurers was fair. This outcome was then discussed
with Mr R and he was told that Ageas would be relying on an exclusion clause as another
insurer was involved.  From what I can see, Ageas  only explained the exclusion to Mr R in
September.
Ref: DRN65462953In my view Ageas handling of this claim has been  poor. They gave incorrect advice at the
outset, which led Mr R to believe that he could not make a claim  under  his policy. As a result
he took action  against the third party. When Mr R came back  to Ageas, almost  one year
later, they raised his expectations by instructing engineers and making an offer for repair.
Despite information  being available to Ageas  about  the third party  insurers  involvement, it
was only later that they rejected the claim under the exclusion  that another insurer was
involved. And its relevant that the third party insurer might not have become involved if
Ageas had taken  the claim on at the outset.
Ageas did accept in their letter  of October 2018 to Mr R that accidental damage to the
vehicle was covered  under the policy and they would have been able to assist Mr R with
repairs had that claim  been  taken on in 2017.  It is difficult to say what  would have happened
if the claim had been taken on by Ageas at that time. I cant say whether Mr R wouldve
selected his own repairer or whether Ageas would have repaired the damage caused by the
original accident.  There is also a question mark over the condition of the vehicle;  Mr R would
only have been  entitled to have  the vehicle repaired to its pre-accident  condition. Given the
passage of time, I cant assess whether there were other wear and tear issues with the
vehicle as at 2017.
But I do think its unlikely that the vehicle wouldve ended up in its current condition and Im
mindful that Mr R has been put through significant,  unnecessary stress and upset because
of the errors Ageas made and the confusion theyve caused over a significant period of time.
putting things  right
Taking everything into account,  I think it is fair and reasonable for Ageas to compensate  
Mr R. The facts of this complaint are unique and I think  the difficult  journey Mr R has been
through, has been triggered and later exacerbated by the errors Ageas has made.
Ive thought carefully about how to put matters right. Ive taken into account  the passage  of
time, the age and condition of the vehicle and the fact that work has been undertaken by
third parties. Im also mindful that asking  Ageas  to pay for all repairs set out by Mr Rs
engineer at this point  wouldnt  be fair and reasonable, as it could put Mr R in a better
position than he would  otherwise have been in. I say that because  its not possible to
retrospectively assess the condition of the vehicle as at 2017.
Ive also considered the extent of Mr Rs significant  distress and upset,  about  which  Mr R
has given a consistent and honest account.
Doing the best I can on the particular facts of this case, I consider that it would be fair and
reasonable to make  a global award towards  repairs and for distress and inconvenience.  I
consider that Ageas  should pay £3,250  to Mr R.
my final decision
I am upholding  this complaint. I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £3,250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
Ref: DRN65462954ombudsman
Ref: DRN6546295