K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that a finance  agreement he has with Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) was misrepresented to him. He also complains about  the end of term 
refurbishment charges  that VWFS have  asked him to pay.
background
Mr Z took receipt  of a new car on March  2015.  He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. 
At the end of the agreement Mr Z was surprised to find that the mileage limit was 5,000  per 
year and not the 8,500 he thought hed signed  up for. He said hed always had a much 
higher mileage limit in his previous agreements and that VWFS  had got this wrong.
He was also upset  about the charges he was asked to pay to refurbish the car. He disputed  
the damage that the end of term inspection had revealed.
VWFS noted that the finance agreement  listed the maximum mileage as 5,000 and not the 
8,500 Mr Z said hed signed  up for. So they didnt  uphold  this part of his complaint. They 
didnt uphold  his complaint about the charges theyd  asked him to pay to refurbish the car 
either. They thought each  area of damage had been clearly  made  out in the photographs the 
inspector had provided and that the damage was clearly  beyond  reasonable wear and tear.
So Mr Z referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided his opinion.  He 
noted that Mr Zs finance agreement did state  5,000  miles and he was persuaded that was 
probably the figure that had been  agreed on the day as the Finance Suitability Questionnaire 
(FSQ) that had been provided  by the dealership and signed  by Mr Z, also referred to a 5,000  
and not an 8,500 mile limit. He noted that Mr Z had explained that there were others present 
at the time who could  provide statements but as these statements were not provided within 
the timescale he suggested  he wasnt  persuaded that there was sufficient  evidence  that the 
finance agreement  had been misrepresented to Mr Z.
He reviewed the photographs that had been taken of the damage to the car that VWFS said 
was beyond normal wear  and tear. He agreed  that it was and was therefore also chargeable. 
He therefore didnt think that VWFS  needed  to take any further action.
But Mr Z disagreed. He said the investigator  was wrong to decide the agreement wasnt  mis-
sold purely on the basis of consistency  in two documents and he asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr Z so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN67409962Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Z acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
the excess mileage 
Im not persuaded that theres been enough information that the excess mileage listed  in the 
agreement is not the excess mileage that was agreed when  the finance was established.
I say that because I can also see that the FSQ lists the same  mileage.
I understand that Mr Z has provided evidence that his previous agreements  were all for 
higher mileages but Im not persuaded this would necessarily suggest  hed sign up for the 
same and I think the fact that the mileage  limit is confirmed on a couple of documents  is 
more compelling.
I understand that Mr Z has explained  there were others present when the agreement was 
struck and that they could provide statements. They havent done  so but even if they did I 
think I would  not find their statements particularly compelling, as it would  be difficult to 
ascertain their independence.
the charge for refurbishment
The terms of the hire purchase agreement explained  that Mr Z would  be responsible for any 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear and commensurate with the age 
and mileage of the vehicle.  
The industry guidelines are provided  by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  
(BVRLA) and Ive therefore considered each area of damage  against the standard they 
provide.
The investigator has referred to the specific guidelines for each  type of damage i.e. 
scratches and dents, I wont repeat them here but having reviewed the photographs I agree 
with his findings and think the damage  listed is beyond what  would be considered normal 
wear and tear. So I think the refurbishment charges that VWFS  have made are reasonable 
and Im not asking them  to take any further action.
Ref: DRN67409963my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6740996