K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold them two 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy in 1994  when  they took out a mortgage. They paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy . The policy was in Mr F name only.  In the event of a 
successful claim, the PPI would have  covered  Mr F for accident,  sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
In 2003 Mr and Mrs F took out a further advance.  And they were  sold Total Mortgage  
Protection Plan (TMPP). A TMPP could be made up of the following elements  a PPI 
policy (which covered consumers for accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover),  life cover  
and critical illness cover. 
From the information provided it appears  that Mr F took out all elements of the TMPP policy 
 so PPI, life cover and critical  illness cover. 
And Mrs F took out life cover and critical illness cover.
The PPI policy, in the event of a successful claim, would have covered Mr F for accident, 
sickness and unemployment for up to 24 months  per claim.
This complaint only focuses on the sale of Mr Fs PPI policies in 1994 and 2003 and not the 
life and critical illness cover that Mr and Mrs F were  sold in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
For both sales, Halifax doesnt have copies of all of Mr and Mrs Fs paperwork. But it has 
managed to provide some  information  from the time.
For the sale of the 1994 policy Halifax has provided  a copy  of the mortgage  application  that 
Mr and Mrs F has signed. There was section for PPI and it has been  completed indicating 
that PPI was discussed and chosen. A benefit  of £200 was selected  with 100% benefit for 
the first named applicant  so for Mr F. Had Mr and Mrs F not wanted PPI then this section 
could have been left blank.
Ref: DRN64181762With sale in 2003,  Halifax has provided  a copy of the separate  PPI application that 
Mr and Mrs F signed. I cant  say exactly how the policy  was presented  to Mr and Mrs F. But 
based on what I know about Halifaxs PPI sales from around  the times  the policy was sold,  
Ive not seen anything to suggest that PPI was added to mortgages  automatically or without 
consumers consent.  Also, with a PPI policy that was added  to a mortgage there was 
normally a discussion around the level of benefit that was required. And I think that is likely  
to have happened in this case given  that Mr F took out PPI, life and critical illness  cover  and 
Mrs F took out life and critical illness cover only.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough in this case to make  me think the 
policies werent  presented  as a separate optional products or that Mr and Mrs F didnt agree 
to take them  out in 1994 and 2003. 
From the information Ive seen I think its likely Halifax recommended the PPI policies to 
Mr and Mrs F. And the policies  seem  to have been right for Mr F based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances  in 1994 and 2003. 
A mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment. If repayments arent met borrowers 
stand to lose their home. 
While Mr and Mrs F received some sick pay, the PPI would pay out alongside any sick pay 
Mr F received and for longer. 
In 1994, the PPI policy would have covered her mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  
per claim for accident, sickness  or unemployment. The 2003 policy provided the same cover 
but up to 24 months  per claim. 
So, all things considered,  I think the PPI policies  provided a useful benefit and I cant  fairly 
say that the advisers recommendations were unsuitable in 1994 or 2003.
As Halifax hasnt been able give us all of the documents  from the time of the sale in 1994  
and 2003, I cant  say whether it explained the cost of the policy clearly to Mr and Mrs F. But 
Ive thought about the benefit Mr F could have got if he made  a claim, together with the cost 
of the policy  and their circumstances  at the time. And, even if Halifax had explained the 
costs clearly, I think they would have  still bought  the policy for Mr F for the reasons I have 
explained above.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the PPI policies were unaffordable  or unsuitable in 
Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances. And even if everything had been explained clearly, I think  its 
likely that they still would  have bought them. I say this because  it looks  like the policies could 
have been useful to Mr and Mrs F as I explained  above.
Its also possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things  the policies didnt cover. But Mr F 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things, so I dont  think more 
information about this would have  changed  his mind  and stopped him from taking either  
policy.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Fs comments.  But, for the reasons given above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN64181763Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr and Mrs F some  of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Fs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 the rules  dont  apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs F paid for the PPI policies they 
had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6418176