K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank  plc have  registered  a default on her credit file relating to an 
overdraft facility on her bank account.
background
In January 2019 Mrs M says she received notice that her credit rating had changed. She 
checked the details and found TSB had recorded  a default against her. Mrs M contacted 
TSB and it said her bank  account had been placed  in collections due to late payments and 
for going over her agreed overdraft limit. It said letters had been sent to her letting her know  
about this issue  and telling her that what would happen if she didnt make the payments. 
Mrs M said she didnt  receive any letters from TSB.  She explained she had moved house in 
2017 and contacted TSB at the time to let it know about her change of address but says her 
details werent amended.  Mrs M feels TSB should  remove the default as it failed to notify  her 
by sending the letters to her correct  address. 
TSB says it has no record of Mrs M contacting it to amend her address details  so it doesnt 
think it was notified.  And TSB said Mrs M signed up for paperless correspondence which 
means the letters were  also sent to her online banking messaging account which she would 
have been able to see. So TSB didnt think it had done anything  wrong.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said he couldnt see a record of any contact 
from Mrs M in 2017 with TSB. But even if she had contacted TSB, as Mrs M had signed up 
for paperless  correspondence,  he said she could  have gained access  to these letters from 
her online mailbox. He also said TSB had fairly  applied the default notice in line with the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) guidelines - these say a default can be registered  if 
there have  been  arrears  for at least three  months.  
Mrs M didnt  agree with our investigator. She said she told TSB about her change of address 
at the same  time as she changed  her details with other organisations. She feels if this was 
argued in court then the case  would  rest on the balance of probabilities that she did call to 
update her records. Mrs M also said that she didnt have access  to the online banking 
services  she told us her access suddenly stopped and she never regained access.  She 
has commented on the technical  problems  TSB had with its systems last year which may 
have had an impact on this. Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I fully appreciate why Mrs M wants the registered  default to be removed from her credit 
rating  any deterioration in a credit score can have  a financial impact.  I therefore initially 
contacted TSB to ask if it would reconsider its position. TSB did agree to review Mrs Ms 
complaint again  but having  done  so, it has told us that it stands by its original decision. It 
reiterated that it had no record of a change of address  and that Mrs M had signed  up for 
paperless correspondence. TSB said it would have expected Mrs M to have notified  it if she 
was unable to access her account  online.  
Ref: DRN69825872As no informal agreement  could be reached, Ive therefore completed a full review of the 
information available.  Having done so I find that I agree with our investigator that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mrs M and Ill 
therefore go on to explain my reasons for reaching this outcome.
From the statements Ive seen, Mrs M didnt  make any payments to her account from April 
2018 until late October 2018. During this time her account balance  went over the agreed 
overdraft limit of £1000.  In September 2018 TSB sent Mrs M a letter informing her the 
account had gone over the agreed  overdraft limit for five days and asking her to make a 
payment to bring  the account within the agreed  amount. As no payment was made, further  
letters were sent, including one in early  October  which removed the agreed  overdraft facility 
in its entirety and telling  Mrs M that she had to pay the full amount owed to the bank. While  
she did make a payment  in October, as this wasnt for the full amount owed TSB issued the 
default notice.  
TSB has supplied a copy of the terms and conditions which apply to Mrs Ms account. These 
state that TSB can ask for an overdraft to be repaid at any time. The terms also say that TSB 
will usually give 30 days notice of a request to repay the overdraft. From  what I have seen 
TSB sent a letter to Mrs M in September 2018  advising that there was a problem with her 
overdraft and a month  later it advised  her she needed to repay the full amount. It wasnt until 
November 2018  that TSB issued a letter informing her that this may now be recorded  as a 
default as she had failed to repay this full sum.  Based on this Im satisfied that it has acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions.
Mrs M says she never received these letters following her change of address. Mrs M has 
told us she would have  contacted TSB at the same time as when she notified  other  
organisations. But as our investigator mentioned, TSBs system notes dont appear to show  
any record of contact  relating to a change of address. I have thought  about  this point 
carefully and, while  I agree it is possible Mrs M did contact TSB in 2017 about her new 
address, I think its more likely that this didnt happen. I say this because this was not 
Mrs Ms main  bank  account and doesnt appear  to have  been being used on a regular basis. 
So I dont  think TSB would have been necessarily at the forefront of her mind when it came 
to contacting companies to change her address. Ive considered  Mrs Ms comments  about  
how a court would  decide this issue but I dont agree with her thoughts on this. The court 
process uses an evidence-based system  when considering such  disputes  and so I think  its 
unlikely Mrs Ms insistence that she did make  contact  would  be enough in these 
circumstances. 
Although I dont think Mrs M did change her address  with TSB, even if she did and TSB 
hadnt updated it correctly, this wouldnt alter my decision. Mrs M had agreed to her account  
being paperless  which  means all correspondence  was also sent to a message box within  
her online banking account. Therefore, had she read these messages, she would have  had 
the opportunity  to prevent  any adverse action  in relation to her credit  file.
In her response, Mrs M said her online access had stopped working and she hadnt been 
able to regain  access to this. She told us she received emails from TSB telling her she had 
new messages, but the emails didnt detail  the content of the messages  so she wouldnt 
have known what TSB were trying  to contact her about. She has also mentioned  the 
technical issues that TSB suffered last year and thinks this may have caused  the problem  
so TSB should be held to account for this. 
Ref: DRN69825873TSB says it has no record of any contact from Mrs M to say she was experiencing problems 
accessing her account. If Mrs M had previously had access online and this had stopped  
working, even if this was due to the technical  issues suffered by the bank in 2018, I think it is 
reasonable for TSB to have expected her to have contacted  it to get this resolved. And 
Mrs M was aware TSB were sending her messages  as she was receiving emails   so it 
would have been even more important  that she contacted TSB.
Ive noted Mrs M told TSB in a phone conversation on 21 January 2019 that she hadnt been  
worried about her online  access  not working as she would make her payments by phone. 
Taking this into consideration Im not persuaded that Mrs M did contact TSB to notify it of the 
problems with her online  banking. As it seems unlikely TSB were told of any issue with her 
access, it wouldnt have  known she couldnt  see this correspondence  and so Im satisfied  it 
acted reasonably by using  this method of contact.
Finally, Im aware  that Mrs M has disputed the investigators comments  about  the ICO 
guidelines as she says she wasnt in arrears for three months.  While  I appreciate Mrs M did 
make a payment  to her account  in October 2018, as TSB had already  removed  her planned 
overdraft facility earlier in the month as she hadnt made any payments since  the previous 
April, she was still in arrears even though this payment had gone through.  TSB has therefore 
acted in accordance  with those guidelines and so this point  doesnt  change my outcome.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6982587