K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc deducted £1,000 from the balance  of his savings 
account and later closed it without his authority and without paying  him the balance. He 
didnt find out until several months later, when he tried to make a further deposit.  
background 
Mr H had a Santander  savings account, with a passbook. Hes explained that in December 
2017 he tried to pay some money into the account,  but was told it had been closed in 
February of that year. He was expecting the balance to be just over £2,110, but was told that 
£1,000 had been withdrawn on 30 June 2016 and £1,110 when the account was closed on 9 
February 2017; at that time a small residual balance had been sent to him by cheque.
Mr H had no recollection of either  withdrawal  or of closing  the account.  Hed paid some 
money into the account on 29 June 2016  but hadnt  withdrawn anything  the following day. 
He said he was at work  on both days,  and provided  statements from a colleague, a 
neighbour and his employer to demonstrate that. He also provided a copy  of his diary. 
Santander has agreed to refund the first withdrawal of £1,000  from 30 June 2016. It says 
that Mr H paid in £700  the day before, but withdrew  £500. However, the withdrawal was 
wrongly recorded as a credit. That meant that Mr Hs account balance  was £1,000 higher 
than it should  have been. To correct that error,  branch staff made an adjustment  by way of 
a £1,000 debit  the following morning. 
The withdrawal and account closure  on 9 February 2017 are a little different, however. Staff 
said they recalled  Mr H visiting  the branch to withdraw funds and arrange closure of the 
account. Santander also said that its record showed  Mr Hs driving licence was produced 
and that hed signed a withdrawal slip. The withdrawal was timed  at shortly after 11am.  
Santander said it believed  Mr H had made  the withdrawal  and so wouldnt refund it. 
Mr H referred  the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. She 
concluded however that Mr H had, as the bank said, arranged for the withdrawal of funds 
and closure of the account on 9 February  2017. She didnt make  any findings  about  the 
events of 30 June  2016, since Santander had agreed to refund the debit of £1,000  made on 
that day. Mr H didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman  review  the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ill deal first of all with the events of 30 June 2016 and the £1,000  that was debited on that 
day. Because Santander has offered to refund that money, I dont need  to decide whether 
Santanders explanation is correct. I do note however that three  different members  of staff 
accessed Mr Hs account early in the morning of 30 June  before the branch  was open. 
One has said they werent in the branch, as they were away on training. That activity  is 
consistent with what Santander said happened. Branch staff identified  an error that had been 
made the previous day and worked  together to establish what  had happened and to resolve  
it. 
Ref: DRN67487852Importantly, Santanders  explanation is also consistent with Mr Hs statement that he wasnt 
in the branch at the time. I think its quite clear  that he wasnt,  and that would  explain  too why 
theres no corresponding entry  in his passbook.  
Santander says that branch staff recall  telephoning Mr H to explain what had happened. But 
they should have written  to him as well, and theres no record  of any call. That would have 
provided Mr H and Santander with clear  evidence of what  had happened,  and its regrettable 
that there  was no written  confirmation given to Mr H. 
I turn therefore to the later withdrawal and closure  of the account on 2 February 2017. Its 
unlikely in my view that branch staff would have  accessed the account and taken money 
from it. That would have  left an electronic  trail which could have been easily traced.  It would 
also have meant that someone in the branch  would have had to access the account and 
remove funds in the presence  of colleagues. In addition,  the account  was closed and a 
cheque sent to Mr H; that would  have  alerted him to what had happened. 
I also think it unlikely that someone was able to impersonate Mr H. They  would have needed 
a fake driving  licence  or access to his driving licence. They  would have had to copy his 
signature accurately  while in the branch. They would also have needed his account details. 
All of this is possible of course, although I dont  believe  its very likely. In particular, I doubt  
someone seeking simply to take money  from Mr Hs account would have closed it. That 
would run the risk of alerting  him to what was happening. But in any event, branch staff say 
 and I accept   that they know Mr H.
The withdrawal was timed  at 11:07am. Mr H says he was at work and has provided 
confirmation from his employer that he was working from about 9:30am until about 2pm. Ive 
no reason to think that evidence wasnt given honestly and after checking records.  But it 
does appear to have  been  produced some time after the event. The nature  of Mr Hs work is 
such that there probably arent any records produced at the time  such  as clocking-on or 
computer records. So I cant rule out the possibility  that he took some time during the day to 
deal with banking  matters, even though the bank  branch is around 20 miles from where he 
was working. 
On balance, I think it more likely  than not that Mr H did make  the withdrawal and closed the 
account on 9 February  2017. 
For these reasons I agree with the investigator  that Santanders offer  to refund the £1,000 
withdrawn on 30 June  2016  is reasonable. I simply leave it to him to decide whether or not 
to accept it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to do anything more  to resolve Mr 
Hs complaint. Its offer of the refund  of £1,000  is, in my view, a fair and reasonable way to 
settle matters  and its for him to decide  whether or not to accept it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Ref: DRN67487853Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6748785