K822xcomplaint
Ms A complains  about Santander UK Plc (Santander)  in respect of an email  sent to her and 
a number of other people,  in which her email address  was disclosed to other recipients. She 
is concerned about the level of data security  and wants compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. 
background 
In early December 2018, a Relationship Manager  at Santander sent a Seasons Greetings 
email to 27 recipients.  One of these recipients was Ms A. 
The email  included visible details of the recipients  email addresses,  but no other  personal  or 
sensitive information.  
Shortly after the original  email, one recipient replied all to the email, which again was sent 
to Ms A. 
Ms A then contacted the staff member directly  and alerted them to the disclosure. 
The member  of staff immediately apologised and alerted  their manager. They then 
attempted to recall  the email. 
The member  of staff contacted Ms A and expressed  apologies. They asked what could be 
done to make Ms A happy, and indicated that a manager would contact Ms A to discuss  
appropriate redress. 
Ms A was not contacted  by the manager but noticed that a £50 deposit had been  made to 
her account.  She then received  a final response  letter from Santander upholding her 
complaint and offering £50 compensation to reflect her distress. 
Ms A was not satisfied with this response and contacted  us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view on the complaint. In 
the meantime,  Santander  has increased its offer of compensation to Ms A to £200. Our 
adjudicator considered that this was reasonable and did not ask that Santander do anything  
further. 
Ms A was not happy with that view and asked for an ombudsman  decision.  She has 
indicated that she thinks that the offer of £200 is grossly inadequate and has indicated  that 
she wants £5,000  in compensation to be split between her and a charity  of her choice. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  had regard to Ms As concerns about her data being shared, and to the 
original email which disclosed her email address. 
Before I set out my decision, it is important to make  clear the distinction between this 
service, and other services which  Ms A may wish to contact about  disclosure  of data. Our 
Ref: DRN65203232role is not to review overall processes and policies (this is the role of the regulator) or to 
punish businesses  for instances of data breaches. Other  organisations may take action if 
they consider  that a systemic or other issue caused a breach. Our role is to look at what 
happened between  the individual customer and the business, and where there is unfairness,  
we look at compensating that unfairness to the customer. 
Santander has provided evidence that when the member of staff tried to recall the email this 
was successful for all but one other  recipient. This other person has been  contacted  and 
asked to delete the information. 
Santander is therefore satisfied that the impact  of this data breach has been low as the 
original email did not contain  sensitive information, and it appears that only one other person 
has received this information. 
Having reviewed the evidence provided, I accept that only minimal information  has been 
disclosed, and that this information is not sensitive.  Whilst I appreciate that Ms A has strong 
feelings about the sharing  of the information,  I am satisfied that the breach was not 
deliberate, and I have  not seen evidence of a significant effect upon Ms A. 
I understand Ms As concerns about  the sharing of any data, but in this instance  I am 
satisfied that Santander  has acted properly  in response to the data breach and has taken 
steps to minimise the risk of information  (namely, Ms As email address) being further 
disseminated. 
I note that it would have been  helpful if the manager at Santander had called Ms A as 
offered before depositing £50 into her account, and that Ms A believes that this deposit was 
unauthorised. This is not an unusual  way for businesses to approach  an offer of 
compensation when the offer of compensation is not dependant on the customer agreeing  to 
close a complaint. Whilst it was clearly  upsetting  to Ms A, I do not consider that Santander  
was wrong to make this direct payment. 
Santander has offered  £200 to reflect the distress  and inconvenience  Ms A has suffered, 
and whilst Ms A believes this insufficient,  I am satisfied that this offer is reasonable and in 
line with awards we would make  in other  circumstances. 
Santander has indicated  that it is open  to Ms A to register with a fraud  prevention service if 
she remains concerned  about her information,  and the cost of this service  is included within  
its offer. Ms A has commented  that it is not appropriate  to add an administrative burden  to 
her as the victim of the data breach.  
I do not consider  that Santander has added any such burden, but has indicated  an option  
available to Ms A if she wishes to pursue  it. She is, of course, under no obligation  to register 
with that service, or any other. 
I understand that this decision will be disappointing  to Ms A, but I am satisfied that, in 
respect of the breach of Ms As data, Santander has acted appropriately and has made a 
reasonable offer of compensation. I therefore do not ask Santander  to do anything  further in 
respect of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN65203233my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Ms As complaint but consider that Santander has 
made a reasonable offer of compensation. I do not ask Santander  UK Plc to do anything 
further, 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6520323