K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. 
Mr and Mrs H applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  because I dont think  the policy Santander 
recommended was right for them.
Mrs H says she had two jobs at the time she took out the MPPI. Santander hasnt provided 
any policy documents, but I think its likely  Mrs H wouldve found it difficult to make a claim 
as it would be unlikely  shed be in the position  of losing both jobs. Its unlikely the policy  
wouldve paid out unless this happened.
Santander says that Mrs H is now providing  different information  about her employment 
status than she did earlier in her complaint. But I dont think  Mrs H actually  provided  enough  
detail about her employment circumstances  in her original complaint to really undermine 
what shes saying now. And the information Mrs H originally provided, if relied upon, would 
suggest she wasnt eligible to take out the policy and so its likely the complaint would be 
upheld for this reason instead.  
So while I understand Santanders concerns, on balance I dont think  the policy  was right for 
Mrs H and Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN61156032putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs H in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr or Mrs H made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6115603