K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the price  of a home emergency insurance  policy  with 
British Gas Insurance Limited. 
Mr M is bringing  this complaint on behalf of his mother. For ease, I will refer to Mr M 
throughout. 
background
Mr Ms mother took out the policy with British Gas in November 2014 (costing £168 for the 
year) and it was renewed  automatically each year until 2018. The price increased each year 
and then in late 2018, Mr Ms mother was quoted  £351.75 for the following year.  Mr M says 
the same  policy  was available on line for new customers  at a cost of £192. Mr M says his 
mothers policy has increased in price by around 30% each year since  2014, whereas the 
online price would have  represented only a 14% increase since  2014. Mr M therefore says 
his mother has been overcharged by around £300  since 2014 and wants this amount 
reimbursed. Mr M also says the policy was automatically renewed  each  year without consent 
and he was not previously told it was an insurance product. 
British Gas says that when the policy was first taken out, there  was an introductory  offer of a 
17% discount across  its whole insurance  range, which resulted in the premium  of £168.30 
for Mr Ms mother,  which  she chose to pay by direct debit. The price  Mr M found online for 
2018 would  only have been for new customers.  The pricing for new customers is calculated 
on a flat rate basis, which Mr Ms mother would  have  benefited  from when the policy was 
first taken out. At that stage it would not know the age, make and model of the boiler as well 
as the size of the property and number of radiators. After the first year the price  is then 
calculated more specifically taking these factors into account, as its engineers would have 
attended property  and have more knowledge  of what  it are insuring. The second  year pricing 
would also take into account any call outs / claims customers may have made. 
It was also agreed in 2014  that the policy would automatically renew each  year after that. 
The policy was set up on line in 2014 and it notified Mr M that documents  would be sent by 
email. Renewal documents were  sent in advance  of each renewal detailing the price for 
each forthcoming  year. In addition, the direct debits changed over the time since 2014 and 
so this would  also have alerted Mr M and his mother to the price  changes for the policy. 
British Gas Insurance says Mr M, or his mother,  have contacted it at any time before 
October 2018 to raise  any concerns about  the policy  automatically renewing or 
dissatisfaction with the new prices. A service had been completed on the boiler  each year 
and several breakdown appointments had been  attended.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She did not recommend that it be upheld,  as 
she considered  that British Gas had calculated its premiums fairly and had not treated         
Mr Ms mother any differently than other customers. Mr Ms mother was notified of the 
premium each year and chose to allow it to renew.  She could have chosen different 
insurance if she did not want to continue cover  with British Gas at the price quoted to her.
The adjudicator also noted that British Gas had carried out an annual service  on Mr Ms 
mothers boiler each  year and had attended to deal with problems with the boiler  on four 
occasions. She did not therefore consider that British Gas should make  any payment to 
Mr Ms mother.
Ref: DRN62941732Mr M doesnt accept the adjudicators assessment. He says that the issues with British Gas 
are clear. The adjudicators assessment gives the impression that she may have been  
overwhelmed with the amount of data and information provided. Mr M has made a number of 
points in support  of this complaint and in response  to the adjudicators  assessment, which 
Ive summarised below:  
the original premium of £168  was adequate for the small amount of work  which  was 
carried out while the policy was in force. 
There were  no repairs  carried out on the boiler. His mother  had to call British Gas out 
a few times but this was simply to reset  the pilot light, as she was unable  to do this 
herself. 
There was no introductory  offer in 2014, the website only showed a table of boiler 
Home care products,  with advertised  prices  and no mention of any discount. 
His mother is 84 years old and has been  taken advantage of. She has been a loyal 
customer but has been penalised for this.
He couldnt  monitor all the payments made  by direct  debit  from a number of bank 
accounts that he holds.
If his mother  had been properly informed about the premium each year, they would 
have found alternative  cover,  or cancelled and rejoined British Gas to avoid paying 
the unjustified  price rises.  
As it is, she has paid the total of £968.00  for just over one hour active  work, in four
years and the annual services. 
British Gass unfair and unjustified price  rises  have caused his mother  to be £300 out 
of pocket, which he expects to be refunded, as a premium of £168.30 per year is 
more than adequate for the little work  carried out.
The renewal invitations  sent by British  Gas had all gone to Mr Ms junk  folder. But 
British Gas should also have written to him and his mother separately before 
renewing the policy each year.
Mr M has asked  that the complaint be reviewed again and the sum claimed credited to his 
account.
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information provided by both parties, I agree with the adjudicators
assessment that this complaint should  be rejected.
It is generally up to insurers to decide  what  cover  they wish to provide and the premium that 
they want to charge for that cover, based  on the risk that it thinks a customer  presents. 
Similarly, individual consumers have  a choice about  which policy and which  insurer they 
wish to take insurance with, or not take insurance  at all. 
Normally insurers  calculate a base  premium rate for a policy  and then the other  factors  they 
consider relevant to the risk being  covered are applied, which might bring that base premium  
up or down.  Different  insurers apply  different  factors. I cant set out in detail the factors  that 
Ref: DRN62941733British Gas consider  relevant and apply  to its policies, as these are commercially sensitive 
but I have considered the information it has provided.
The base rate which applies to all customers, and which includes the insurance premium  
tax, increased each year since  2014.  Other factors were then applied but the main reason 
Mr Ms mothers premium  had gone  up each year was the increase in base rate. 
British Gas provided a discounted introductory  rate in 2014  but having  applied a discount  in 
one year, it is not committed  to doing  so in any following years.  Even if Mr Ms mother was 
not aware that this was a discounted rate, I dont consider this changes the outcome of this 
complaint. It is not unusual for insurers to provide such discounts to attract new customers  
and there  is nothing inherently wrong in doing  so. 
British Gas then attended  a number  of call outs and carried out annual services.  Mr M says 
that the visits were  simply to reset the pilot light. This is disputed,  as British Gass records 
show that on two occasion work was done to the boiler but in any case,  it was required to 
attend and visit to reset the pilot light would  involve a cost to British Gas. However, from the 
information provided to me, it appears  the claims / call outs have not made much, if any, 
difference to the price Mr Ms mothers policy. I dont  therefore consider  that I need  to make 
a finding about this issue.
Mr Ms mother was notified of the premium before the policy  renewed  each  year and had a 
choice about whether  to accept it or not. Mr M says these documents  were not received but 
this is not something  I can hold British Gas responsible for. Similarly, I cant  hold British Gas 
responsible for Mr M not noticing any change in the direct debit  amounts  taken  from his 
account for the policy. British Gas sent the documents as it is required to do. I do not 
consider it would be reasonable to expect  it to also write to customers, who have agreed  to a 
policy automatically renewing, again.  
In any event, it seems clear to me that Mr Ms mother was aware and wanted the policy  to 
renew each year, as she made claims under  it and arranged the appointments for the annual 
service. Mr M says it was not agreed  that the policy would automatically  renew  but the 
documents provided to him at the time the policy  was first taken out online, and at each 
renewal since, show that it will do so if the premiums are paid by direct debit. And, as stated, 
it appears he and his mother were aware  it was renewing and didnt query this on any 
occasion until 2018. 
Mr M has also suggested that the price is unfair  due to the amount of work British  Gas has 
had to do under the policy. The policy is one of insurance, which  means it is about future risk 
and how much the insurer is prepared to provide cover for. It is not possible to calculate  the 
cost of work  done  as a way of retrospectively calculating a fair price. Mr M says he didnt  
know the policy was an insurance product. I consider that this is sufficiently clear from all the 
documents and information provided to Mr M but in any case, even if he wasnt  aware of this 
fact, it makes no difference  to the outcome  of this matter. I say this because,  regardless of 
the definition of the policy, he and his mother were aware that the premium was being  paid 
in exchange for British  Gass agreement to carry out an annual  service and to attend to any 
problems with the boiler (subject to certain  terms and conditions).
 
If Mr M no longer thinks the insurance  offers value for money, that is a matter for him and his 
mother. Mr Ms mother doesnt have to renew with British Gas, he has always  had the option 
to either  get insurance elsewhere  or decide  not to have insurance at all. 
Ref: DRN62941734Overall, I am satisfied that Mr Ms mother was treated fairly and in line with other customers;  
and Im not persuaded that the premiums  have been  calculated  unfairly or that British  Gas 
needed to provide any further information to Mr M or his mother, who was free to choose 
another policy elsewhere if she didnt accept the premium.  I do not therefore consider that 
British Gas needs to make any payment  to Mr Ms mother.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6294173