K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) reduced the value of 
the pension pot he holds  with it by approximately £100,000 without prior warning.
Mr B says he would  have made additional contributions to his pension  if he had known that 
the value of his pension  pot was much  lower than the amount shown in his statements.
background
L&G has explained that the benefit  statements it provided to Mr B incorrectly showed 
National Insurance rebates being added to his plan. However, these  rebate  contributions  
werent received.  Despite  this the statements continued to show an inflated figure. 
It appears that L&G removed the wrongly credited amounts from Mr Bs pension pot in May 
2010. Unfortunately there appears to have been  a further error  on L&Gs part and a fund 
switch that was carried out in 2004  was incorrectly reapplied to Mr Bs plan.
L&G tried to correct its mistake by reworking  Mr Bs pension plan from the start. But this 
correction was unsuccessful as, when the March 2004 switch  was re-applied, L&G failed to 
buy and sell the appropriate number of units in the selected funds. This error led to the 
number of units in the plan being overstated. The true value  of Mr Bs pension pot was over 
£100,000 less.
This mistake was spotted in 2018. L&G then amended Mr Bs pension plan and removed the 
additional units. As a consequence, the value  of Mr Bs pension  plan was reduced by over 
£100,000.
L&G wrote to Mr B explaining what had happened  and that the value of his pension pot 
would change. But initially  it didnt tell him how much the value of his pension  pot would fall 
by.
Mr B complained to L&G about the mistakes  it had made. He said that it hadnt told him in 
advance that when it removed the incorrectly credited units  from his pension  pot and the 
reduction in value would be very large.
L&G apologised for the problems its errors had caused Mr B and for the poor customer 
service he had received  when he queried  the corrections it had made. After some 
correspondence with Mr B it offered to pay him £2,500 for the trouble and upset this matter  
had caused him. It also agreed to cover any reasonable  costs  for Mr B to get financial advice 
on his pension planning in light of the reduction  in his L&G pension pot.
L&G also completed  reworked Mr Bs pension plan in order  to correct the charging structure 
on the plan. 
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with L&Gs response  and brought  his complaint to this service. In 
particular he said he wanted  this service to review  the compensation L&G had offered and to 
review L&Gs calculations.
Our investigator said that having reviewed Mr Bs complaint she felt the action L&G had 
taken to resolve the issues was sufficient and she didnt think  it need  to do any more to 
address Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN68946542She said that L&G had provided  her with a spreadsheet  detailing the money received and 
allocated to the plan. The spreadsheet also showed  the value of the plan before and after 
the corrective work had been carried out. 
Having reviewed this she said she was satisfied that the error  had caused  more units than 
should have been allocated to be added to his pension pot. This led to an inflated fund value 
from 2010 until the correction in 2018. She said L&G had set out how it had corrected the 
unit allocation and therefore the value  of Mr Bs pension pot. 
She said that she had no reason to think that L&Gs amendments  were  incorrect. She also 
noted that L&G had offered to cover  any reasonable costs involved if Mr B wanted to get 
financial advice on his pension. She said she felt this was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with our investigators response. He said that he would have put more  
money into his pension during this period if he had known the correct value of his L&G 
pension pot. He said he had lost time in the market and tax rebates for the years the errors 
had been present.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute  that L&G made  errors in its administration of Mr Bs pension  plan. What is 
in dispute is whether L&G needs  to do more to put matter right.
Mr B says:
I accept the £2,500 compensation figure  for the inconvenience, stress and time wasted. The 
problem is I am now £100,000  short  in my pension funds. I would have saved  more  in this 
period if I had known  the correct value of my plan and I cannot play catch  up with the lost 
time, market growth and tax rebate for these 9 years.
Please ask L&G to either put the money back  or give me 40% tax relief on the £100,000 
contributions that I would have saved, had I known the extent of the underfunding  of my 
retirement fund.
It isnt possible to say with certainty what Mr B would have done  if L&G had provided 
accurate valuations for his pension pot. But in order to determine this complaint I need to 
decide whether  I think Mr B would have paid more  into his pension if he had been  aware  of 
the correct value of this plan.
In complaints such as this, where  it is not possible to say with certainty what would have 
happened had the correct  information  been provided, I am required to determine the 
complaint based  on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what I consider would most 
likely have happened if the correct information  had been provided to Mr B about  the value of 
his L&G pension pot.
Mr B says:
Ref: DRN689465431.I relied on L&G data and fund information  - I really did. I reviewed my contributions 
regularly. I kept my own contemporaneous  record of how much was in it and 
consulted Financial  Advisers periodically to ensure  it was growing and on track.
2. Indeed I was so concerned that I may have  been OVER contributing and in danger 
of exceeding my lifetime  allowance that I consulted two separate  advisors  in the 12m 
prior to this whole  event  starting  to ensure  I did not exceed this.
3. I thus used the L&G information to balance my allocation of funds  for short,  medium  
and longer term. Indeed it would not have been  sensible for me to have put in more  
money that this into my pension based upon the information provided to me at the 
time.
4.The L&G fund information  was wrong  for a significant amount of time. 9 years is 
approximately 25% of my working life. L&G must surely owe a duty of care to be 
more accurate than this?
I can thus make the case that I would have saved  an extra  £6000  - £10000 for 10 years to 
deliver the £100,000 missing fund by 2018.  These would have been drip fed in monthly  via 
direct debit, been grossed up by 40% tax and subject to market growth over this period.
In order to properly  consider  the points Mr B had made I asked him to provide any evidence  
he held of the financial advice he had received and the records  he had kept relating to his 
ongoing monitoring of his pension. 
I also asked Mr B if he would be willing to provide a copy of the advice he had received in 
relation to exceeding the Lifetime  Allowance. I noted Mr B said he had consulted two 
separate advisers in the year before he became  aware of the errors L&G had made.  
In addition I said it would be helpful if Mr B could  provide details of any long term investment 
backed savings  he had made  from 2010  onwards (for example a stocks and shares ISA).
Mr B provided records relating to the points he had made.
I have carefully reviewed all the information  Mr B provided. Having done so, I cant safely 
conclude that Mr B would  have paid more into his pensions had he been aware of the true 
value of his L&G pension pot. Ill explain why.
The records  Mr B has provided  show that he has monitored his pension savings. They  also 
show that he received  information on the Lifetime Allowance when the maximum was 
reduced. But I havent seen anything that shows Mr B received advice on whether he was at 
risk of exceeding the Lifetime Allowance  based on a full review  of his pension  savings. 
I note that in a letter  dated March 2017 Mr Bs financial adviser  said:
We note your total amount of accumulated pension funds is £638,000. If we assume  CPI of 
2% p/a and investment growth  of 5% p/a, the real rate of return is 3% p/a. A fund of 
£638,000, will increase, in real terms, to £860,000 by the time you are 60. Addition of the 
regular contributions you pay will provide a further  £172,000, The real rate of return  on these 
contributions will be in the region of £35,000. If these assumptions are correct, your total 
fund in today's  terms, at the age of 60, will be £1,065,000. You can temper  the growth  of 
your fund by reducing  or stopping regular contributions. You could  take your pension fund 
Ref: DRN68946544early. In summary, you are on target  to fund correctly.  As mentioned,  you are managing your 
Annual Allowance and Lifetime Allowance  challenges, [name of IFA] are not. The above is 
for information purposes only.
But Mr B hasnt provided anything that would enable me to safely conclude that he would 
have paid more  into his pension pot from 2010  onwards if his L&G statements  had been  
correct. 
Mr B has suggested that he would  have saved an extra  £6000 - £10000 for 10 years to 
deliver the £100,000 missing fund by 2018  But if Mr B had wanted to save an extra £6,000 
to £10,000 into his pension between 2010 and 2012  he would have been free to do so  at 
that stage the Lifetime Allowance  was £1.8million. I dont think  the incorrect information 
provided by L&G was a key factor in Mr B not saving more into his pension at this time.
The Lifetime Allowance was then reduced to £1.5million in 2012/13 but Mr B would still have 
had ample headroom if he had wanted  to save more into his pension at that time.
I appreciate that in 2016 and 2017 Mr B received information on the Lifetime  Allowance. But 
I dont think Mr B could have foreseen in 2010/11  that the Lifetime Allowance would be 
reduced. So I dont think  incorrect information provided by L&G was a key factor in Mr Bs 
decision not to contribute  more to his pension from 2010 onwards.
I have also considered whether Mr B would have  paid more into his pension, rather than 
other savings vehicles, if the information  he had received from L&G had been  correct. In 
considering this I have  taken into account  the information  Mr B has provided about his other  
investments. In the letter to Mr B from his adviser dated March  2017 it says:
You are using the ISA to save for the longer term. The most  likely use of the plan, is to use it 
to help your children repay University costs, or for a deposit for a home for them, or to 
provide liquidity for yourself, or to provide you with an income, when you retire.
I dont think I can safely say that if Mr B had been  aware of the true value of his L&G pension 
pot he would  have directed more of his savings into his pension. As the above  extract  
shows, using these  as part of his income  in retirement was only one of the options Mr B had 
in mind for these savings.  I think the benefit of being able to access these  ISA savings was 
an advantage  Mr B valued.  I dont think it is more likely than not that he would have tied up 
more of his savings up in pension plans.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr B, but based on the information 
provided I cant safely say that Mr B would have been more  likely than not save  more into 
pension plans if he had received correct  valuations from L&G between  2010 and 2018. As 
this is the case I cannot reasonably require it to compensate Mr B for this aspect of his 
complaint.
It is not in dispute  that the service  Mr B received from L&G was very poor but I think the 
£2,500 it has offered  to pay him for the trouble  and upset its errors have caused is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I note it has also said it will cover any reasonable costs 
involved if Mr B wanted to get financial  advice on his pension planning. 
Ref: DRN68946545my final decision
My decision  is that I think the offer Legal  & General Assurance Society Limited has made to 
pay Mr B £2,500 for the trouble and upset  this matter has caused is fair and reasonable. I 
dont think it needs  to do any more to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6894654