K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays) sold the policy to Mr G when he took out a credit  card in 2003.  
background
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and was of the opinion  that the PPI wasnt  
mis-sold. 
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators  view,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain the reasons for this.
First of all there were  rules about who could  qualify for the cover under the policy. Based on 
his circumstances,  I think Mr G met these rules. So I think hed have been able to claim on 
the PPI if he needed to.
Next Ive looked at whether Barclays made it clear enough to Mr G that the policy was 
optional. Barclays has sent us a copy of the application form which Mr G completed. He 
ticked a box to say that he wanted  to take out the policy and he signed the form. Having read 
this, I think Mr G would have  understood  that the policy was optional because he could have 
left the box blank. So overall, I think  Barclays made it sufficiently clear  to Mr G that he didnt 
have to take out the PPI.
Barclays didnt recommend the policy  to Mr G so it wasnt  required to check  that the PPI was 
right for him. However Barclays was required to give him information  that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so he could  make  the decision for himself about  whether or not to take 
the PPI. 
Ive considered the likelihood that Barclays didnt give Mr G clear  enough information about 
the cost, benefits,  main  exclusions  and restrictions of the policy.  
Mr G told us he thinks that he didnt  need the policy because  if he was too ill to work or was 
made unemployed hed have been  entitled to full pay for six months and half pay for the 
following six months. He also told us he was in very secure employment. But the cost of the 
PPI was comparable  to the cost of other, similar policies available  at the time. And he chose 
to take it out, so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Ive also considered the possibility that Barclays didnt point out the main things the policy  
didnt cover. But looking at his circumstances,  Mr G wouldnt  have been affected  by any of 
those things. So on balance, I dont think its likely  that better  information would have 
dissuaded Mr G from buying  the PPI. And overall, I dont think  this policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN69438472Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6943847