K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about esure Insurance Limited  (esure) and the length of time its taken to 
successfully repair her car following a road traffic accident.
background
Mrs D made  a claim on her esure motor insurance policy  following a road traffic  accident in 
July 2018. As per the terms of Mrs Ds insurance, esure instructed its own approved repairer 
the same  day.
Unfortunately, Mrs D was unhappy  with the repairs carried  out by the garage  and her car 
was sent back  for additional work  a number of times. Because of this, Mrs D also became 
unhappy with the length of time shed been without her own car.
So, esure instructed  an independent engineer to assess Mrs Ds car and identify the work  
that would  be needed to return it to its original condition. They agreed that Mrs D could  find a 
garage of her choice  to complete these repairs and their own approved garage would cover 
the costs of this work. 
They also agreed  to cover the cost to repair the damage to her rear bumper themselves as a 
gesture of goodwill, as well as offering £450  to recognise the inconvenience Mrs D had 
experienced. Mrs D remained unhappy  with this response so she referred her complaint to 
us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. She thought that Mrs D had 
been without her car for an unreasonable length of time due to the quality of the repairs by 
esures approved  garage. But, she thought esures offer to cover the cost of the repairs  to 
the rear bumper and the £450 payment, on top of the garage  covering the cost of the 
needed additional work, was fair. So, she didnt think esure  needed to do anything  further.  
Mrs D didnt accept this view. She didnt  think  the £450 was enough  to recognise the trouble 
and upset shed  been caused by being without  her car for such  a long period of time. She 
said shed been  paying a substantial amount  to insure her own car and instead had been 
driving a car of a much lesser value and this hadnt been taken into account. As Mrs D 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Im aware that esure dont  dispute that their approved garage failed to adequately repair 
Mrs Ds car on a number of occasions. This is supported by their independent  engineers 
assessment of Mrs Ds car after it had been with the approved garage.  So, theyve accepted  
there have  been  avoidable delays in returning Mrs Ds car to her in a suitable  condition. So, 
Ive focused on the trouble and upset  these delays have caused  Mrs D and whether the 
actions esure have taken  to resolve  the situation  are reasonable. 
Ref: DRN64787632First, Ive considered esures  attempts  to resolve  Mrs Ds complaint about the poor standard  
of repairs. Ive seen  an engineers report following an inspection  of Mrs Ds car post repair  
on 4 October. This report highlighted a number  of faults that were present following the 
approved garages  attempts  to repair the accident  related damage.  
Ive also seen a system  note from 16 October  which states that the approved garage 
wouldnt cover  the cost of the rectification work  to the rear bumper as they didnt think any 
damage was their fault. As Mrs D told esure her chosen garage wouldnt  complete the 
repairs without being able to replace the rear bumper, Ive seen esure decided to approve all 
of the repairs  needed  and cover  the cost of the rear bumper themselves, which they 
estimated to be around £850.
When its been found that the original repairs werent of a reasonable standard,  Id expect 
the business to cover  the costs of any work  needed  to fix the accident related damage and 
any damage caused by the sub-standard repairs. I think esure have done  this on this 
occasion as well as agreeing to cover the costs of the rear bumper which  they wouldnt be 
able to claim back from their approved garage. So, I think this is a fair and reasonable offer.
But, I also think it wouldve been distressing for Mrs D to receive her car on multiple 
occasions to find it with additional  damage. Mrs D utilised her insurance policy  to return her 
car to its original condition  and esure  have failed  to do this on a number of occasions. I think  
this should be recognised  with a compensatory amount and Ill discuss  this later on in this 
decision.
Ive also considered the length of time its taken to rectify  the failures of esures approved 
garage and how these delays have impacted Mrs D.
Ive seen that Mrs D initially made  the claim on 13 July. The initial  repairs  were completed on 
20 August. Ive seen  during this time Mrs D spoke to esure to explain shed been  in contact 
with the approved garage directly regarding  an estimated completion  date and the courtesy 
car. esure also emailed  Mrs D providing an estimated completion date. So, I think  Mrs D was 
being kept aware about the progression of the repairs  and I havent seen evidence of any 
unnecessary delays up to this point as it can take time to locate and receive  all the required 
parts that are needed.
But, Mrs D made esure aware  she was unhappy with the quality of the repairs  and her car 
was taken back to the approved garage. Mrs Ds car was returned a second time on 25 
August and she was again unhappy. She let esure know on 28 August that she didnt  want 
to drive the car as fluid was leaking from underneath. So, esure arranged for a hire car to be 
provided and they arranged  for an independent  engineer to assess the car to understand 
what work needed to be completed.
Ive seen the report from this assessment, which was completed on 10 September.  This 
report confirmed that there were  failures with the initial repairs and valued the rectification 
work to cost £1,530.44. But, Mrs D received  her own estimate for the work needed which  
exceeded this amount.  So, the independent engineer was asked to inspect the car again 
before approving the work.
Ref: DRN64787633Ive seen they did so on 4 October, where  they provided a new cost of £5,573.59. This work, 
plus the replacement  of the rear bumper, was authorised by esure on 16 October. At this 
point, I dont think esure wouldve been  able to control any delays that may have  been  
caused by the new repairer  completing the work  as they werent the ones to instruct them. 
But, I do recognise that the car was only with a new repairer due to the failures  by the 
approved repairer  esure first appointed.
I think if esures approved  garage had repaired Mrs Ds car correctly, shed have had her car 
back on 20 August. Because they failed  to do so, Mrs D was left without her car for a period 
of two months that I think esure are accountable  for. Ive looked  at the terms of Mrs Ds 
policy which  clearly states that the courtesy  car provided to Mrs D would be a small car, 
such as a Ford Ka or Toyota Aygo so I dont think esure did anything wrong by providing a 
smaller car. 
But, I think Mrs D had to drive  a car this size longer than she shouldve done  and I think this 
wouldve been frustrating  for her. While I understand Mrs Ds comments  about having  to 
insure a car that shes been unable  to drive, shes had protection and use of the policy in 
terms of covering her claim  and keeping her mobile by providing  a hire car. So I dont think it 
would be fair to me to direct a reduction  in the premiums shes  paid. 
So, I think Mrs D has been inconvenienced by the number of times  shes received her car 
not in its original condition. I think its clear  the delays have caused Mrs D upset when  Ive 
considered  the  number  of times  shes contacted esure and the effort shes  made obtaining 
her own estimation for the additional  work  the car needed. And I think a payment to 
recognise this trouble  and upset should  be made.  
But, Ive also considered that Mrs D has been provided a hire car so has been able to get 
around apart  from a three day period where  esure have already offered an additional  £30 to 
recognise. This offer of £10 a day falls within the offer Id expect to see. Ive also seen that 
esure have  agreed  to cover the £162  diagnostic check  following the completion of the 
additional repairs to ensure Mrs D was happy with the condition  of her vehicle. 
So, after taking all of the above into account,  I think  the £450  already offered by esure, in 
addition to the payments just referred  to above,  is a fair offer to recognise the trouble and 
upset Mrs D has experienced and dont think they need to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint about  esure  Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6478763