K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  about her secured  loan,  which  is administered by Link Mortgage Services  
Limited.
background
Miss G took out a loan of £5,000 over ten years with another  lender. In 2015, this lender sold 
it on to another  lender, Skye Loans. As Skye isnt regulated in its own right,  it appointed  Link 
to manage the loan.
Miss G complained to Link.  She said that she has arrears on her account  that she wants to 
clear, but whenever  she speaks to someone  they dont give her advice on how this can be 
done or show sympathy towards her situation. She has gone on to say that she thinks  the 
interest and charges should be frozen whilst  she pays  the loan off. She also asked  the 
business to extend the term of the loan to allow her more time to pay off the balance  and 
arrears. 
Link looked into the complaint but didnt uphold  it. They said their call handlers are not debt 
advisors and would refer consumers  on to other  organisations  for advice about  their financial 
situation. They went on to say they agreed  several payments plans and eventually  declined 
the latest request as the information Miss G supplied evidenced she could afford more than 
she was offering to pay. 
Link also responded to Miss Gs complaint  about  freezing the interest and extending the 
term. They said that as the loan is secured, they wouldnt consider freezing the interest  and 
by signing the loan agreement, Miss G agreed  to the terms and conditions that say she has 
to pay interest and charges on missed payments. They also didnt  find it was necessary to 
extend the term but they did offer the possibility  of a payment plan that extends past the term 
end to help her pay off what she owes at an amount she can afford. 
As Miss G remained unhappy, she bought the complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said that as 
the information Miss G supplied showed  she was paying towards  unsecured debts 
elsewhere, he didnt  think it was unreasonable to not agree to her most recent payment 
proposal of a lower  amount than she could  afford. He went  on to say that some  of the 
agreements in place  had been cancelled as Miss G had not kept up payments and the 
information provided to the business evidenced  that Miss G could make payments over that 
she was offering to pay. 
Miss G responded to the investigators view. In her response she said that she had been 
making payments  from April 2018 to September 2018. Miss G also asked  the investigator if 
Link needed to recalculate her outstanding  amount based on new regulation  by the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
Our investigator looked into the further  points but didnt agree they changed his view.   
As Miss G didnt agree  with the investigators  view,  the complaints been  passed to me to 
issue a final decision.  
Ref: DRN66921382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrears and advice
Link supplied a payment record of the payments Miss G has made. This shows that from 
2008 onwards,  she has missed a large number  of contractual payments.  This has meant a 
significant amount  of arrears has built up on the account. To date Miss G owes around  
£3700 in addition  to the loan amount.
Link said they have  worked with Miss G to help her manage her payments  from what  Ive 
seen from the information  from both parties,  I agree they have made reasonable 
adjustments to support her. Link has set up several payment plans with Miss G to help her 
clear her arrears - but she has failed to meet these on occasions. Link has also been willing  
to come to various arrangements  to allow  Miss G to pay an amount  she can afford.  
Miss G had a number of recent conversations with Link - in each of these conversations  she 
asked what amount she would need to pay to pay off the loan and the arrears in the 
originally agreed term. Link made  Miss G aware of the amount and on each occasion  Miss G 
said she was unable  to meet  the amount. 
Link asked Miss G what amount she could  afford  and made  her aware that the amount she 
was proposing would possibly be agreed  but would  not clear any of the arrears on the 
account. 
When Link asked Miss G to complete an income  an expenditure form to help them 
understand what she could afford to pay each month, it showed that she had a surplus 
amount each month that she was not proposing to pay towards her debt.  Her bank  
statements also document an amount she was paying each month  to unsecured  debt as part 
of an IVA. Link has correctly advised Miss G that her priority should be her secured debt. 
Following these calls,  Miss G hasnt gone on to propose a higher amount. 
Im satisfied having listened to the calls that Link  were willing to work with Miss G to come 
up with a plan that she could afford and also meet her aim of paying off the loan. 
Unfortunately because of the level of debt Miss G has and the amount she says she can 
afford to pay each month, this would mean going  over the term of the loan and paying  the 
amount back over a longer period. Although Miss G has decided  not to agree to this up to 
this point, I find Link  have  acted fairly by offering this. If Miss G does agree to pay a higher 
amount, which  it looks as though she can, Im confident she can have a further discussion 
with Link  and the time taken to pay off the loan will be shorter.
Interest and charges
Miss G has said that she thinks the interest and charges should be frozen  to help her pay off 
the loan and arrears  in a shorter period. We can ask businesses to freeze interest  where we 
think its the fair thing  to do  but I dont  agree  that it is the fair thing to do here.  Miss G has 
evidenced that she can afford the contractual monthly payments. On this basis  I find it fair 
Ref: DRN66921383that Link charges  additional interest and charges  when these are missed. This is in line with 
section four and five in the terms and conditions of the loan agreement  she agreed to. 
Term extension
Link explained to Miss G that unless she made  four consecutive payments, a term extension 
wouldnt be agreed  but they did agree that Miss G could make an arrangement to make  
payments past the end of the term. This was explained on a call between Miss G and Link 
on 22 February 2018. Miss G wasnt keen  on this idea as it would take her past the original 
term end, but it is an option  she can consider. On this basis  I dont find the business have 
acted unfairly by not agreeing to offer a term extension. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6692138