K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Miss A complain about Legal & General Insurance  Limiteds  handling of a claim 
under their home insurance  policy.
Background
Mr and Miss A have a home insurance  policy with Legal & General (L&G) which covers 
buildings and contents, amongst other  things.
In January 2014, they made a claim following an escape of water in their house. Theyre 
unhappy with the way L&G have  handled  their claim.
They say there have been unnecessary delays in the repairs  being done  and that the 
repairs are not of a sufficiently high standard.
They say theyve essentially been left to organise much of their own alternative 
accommodation. 
They think  L&G should  cover  further damage which L&G say is unrelated  to the insured 
event (the escape  of water). 
They say L&G have  not yet paid expenses they incurred as a result of the insured event and 
the time taken to repair the damage.
And they arent  happy with the cash settlement L&G have offered to cover some  further  
repairs. 
Mr and Miss A complained to L&G. They accepted there had been some avoidable delays in 
the repairs. And they admitted Mr and Miss A had experienced poor customer  service  in 
relation to the alternative accommodation. They  offered £350 compensation for Mr and 
Miss As trouble and upset.
They also offered just over £2,200 as a cash settlement for some outstanding repairs for 
which they accepted responsibility. But they didnt agree  they were responsible for all of the 
repairs Mr and Miss A wanted  them to complete.  
Mr and Miss A werent happy with this outcome  and complained to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and upheld the complaint in part. 
He thought the cash settlement offer and the compensation offered  by L&G were  fair and 
reasonable. But he thought L&G should  cover more  of the list of remaining repairs that Mr 
and Miss A had put forward.
Mr and Miss A disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. L&G have 
accepted responsibility for some of the additional  repairs, but they maintain they arent 
responsible for repairs to a radiator which our investigator thought they should  accept.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61580682I agree  with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld  in part  and for much the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ill deal with the delays first. The escape  of water  happened  in early 2014. And the repairs 
were on-going in late 2018 when Mr and Miss A complained to us.
On the face of it, Mr and Miss A spent a long time in alternative accommodation.  And L&G 
have admitted responsibility for some  of the delay.  
I can see from L&Gs contact notes that there have been times when their responses  to 
issues raised by Mr and Miss A might have been  slightly speedier. And some of the delay 
has been caused by repairs having to be done  again  because the initial  attempt wasnt  up to 
standard.
However, there have  been a number of issues with the repairs which were not L&Gs  or 
their contractors - responsibility.  Asbestos had to be removed from the property, which  will 
inevitably cause delay.  And then the property had to be dried out, which wasnt  completed  
until June 2017.  
Mr and Miss A have also had their own contractors in the property at the same time, to carry 
out some  renovations unrelated to the escape  of water. This has inevitably led to some 
delays when the contractors effectively couldnt  be in the same  space  at the same  time.
Looking at the total elapsed time between early  2014 and late 2018,  much of that was due to 
the complexity of the repairs  particularly the asbestos removal  and drying  out. So, most of 
it wasnt L&Gs responsibility.  
Theyve offered  £350 compensation for delays and for poor customer service  in relation to 
the alternative accommodation. Again,  I can see from the records we have that L&Gs 
appointed alternative accommodation specialists didnt always  provide the service  Mr and 
Miss A could reasonably expect. 
However, I can also see that some of the delays and confusion  in securing alternative 
accommodation were  the result of Mr and Miss A conducting their own searches and after 
the contractors had proposed a number of properties. 
I can understand why they did this, but it appears  it did cause some delay  and further 
discussion with the contractor  before acceptable  alternative  accommodation was secured. 
And I cant hold L&G responsible for all of that. There was also some delay when Mr and 
Miss A were slow to provide references for the landlord.
Its for the delays in the repairs and the poor service  in relation  to alternative accommodation 
that L&G have  offered  £350 in compensation to Mr and Miss A. On balance, I think thats not 
an unreasonable offer given the extent to which L&G were  responsible  for the delays and the 
complexity of the search for alternative accommodation.
Mr and Miss A have a number of issues with the standard and extent of the repairs  carried 
out by L&Gs  contractors. L&G offered to visit the property  with their contractor  to agree 
a list of outstanding issues for their contractor to address.
Ref: DRN61580683Mr and Miss A refused this offer. They say they no longer trust the contractor to carry out 
acceptable repair work. So L&G offered a cash settlement of just over £2,200  to allow  Mr 
and Miss A to get their own contractors  to carry out the remaining repairs L&G accepted  
responsibility for. 
The £2,200 is the amount it would cost L&G to get the repairs carried  out. It might  cost Mr 
and Miss A more because  they wont have access to the same  contractor rates  that L&G can 
secure.
I dont think L&Gs position on this is unreasonable. The approach we take in this kind of 
case is to ask which party is insisting  on a cash settlement. 
If its the insurer, wed expect them to pay out what it would cost the customer to get the 
work carried out, so that the customer is not disadvantaged by the insurers decision to cash 
settle.
If the customer prefers a cash settlement, wed take the view that the insurer is entitled to 
pay out what it would otherwise cost them to get the repairs done, so the insurer  is not 
disadvantaged by what is in fact the customers decision.
In this case, Mr and Miss A have refused the offer of a meeting with L&G and the contractor  
to discuss and agree further repair work.  So, its effectively their decision to cash  settle. And 
I think L&G are entitled  to pay out what  it would cost them to carry out the repairs.
L&G have shown us their costings for the remaining work they accept responsibility for  at 
the prices they can secure  and that amounts to just over £2,200, which  theyve offered Mr 
and Miss A. Theyve also offered to consider any quotes Mr and Miss A get for the remaining 
work and have said they may agree to paying a higher amount if that appears  reasonable.
That being  the case, I cant say L&G have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr and 
Miss A in this respect. 
Im partly upholding this complaint though because I think L&G should accept responsibility 
for rectifying  some of the further issues that Mr and Miss A have raised.  
Mr and Miss A provided a fairly  long list of repairs they regard as outstanding and the 
responsibility of L&G.
Im not going  to go into elaborate detail,  but I dont agree  with Mr and Miss A that L&G 
should repair their cooker,  their living room light or their bathroom flooring.
Any faults with the cooker  appear  to me to be very likely due to work  carried out by Mr and 
Miss As own contractor. If they can provide any further expert evidence to L&G that their 
contractor was at fault, Id expect L&G to consider this. But at present, I dont think its 
unreasonable for L&G to deny responsibility  for any further repairs.
It also appears the living room light was repaired or replaced as part of the refurbishment of 
the home. Theres no real reason I can see to suggest  it was damaged  by the escape of 
water  or during the repairs. Again,  Im sure L&G would re-consider if Mr and Miss A can 
produce any evidence  to suggest otherwise. But at present, L&Gs  stance isnt unreasonable  
or unfair.
Ref: DRN61580684The bathroom flooring was included  in the original  scope  of works for L&Gs contactor. 
However, it seems the contractor and Mr and Miss A came to an agreement  that the 
contractor would carry out other work   not covered by the claim  and in return  Mr and 
Miss A would get their own contractor to deal with the bathroom flooring. Im not going to 
hold L&G responsible for any remaining  issues arising out of the work carried out by Mr and 
Miss As own contractor.
I agree  with our investigator that L&G should  cover replacing the floor covering in Mr and 
Miss As under-stair cupboard. L&G have now agreed to this and have asked Mr and Miss A 
to provide an invoice.
L&G have also agreed to consider any independent expert report Mr and Miss A can provide 
to suggest their kitchen  underfloor  heating isnt working. L&Gs  contractors tests  suggest it 
is. Its not unreasonable for them to rely on that information unless and until Mr and Miss A 
can provide evidence to the contrary.
I also agree  with our investigator that L&G should accept responsibility for repairs  to a 
radiator in Mr and Miss As home. Mr and Miss A say the reflector  behind the radiator wasnt 
replaced  and that the work to fix the radiator to the wall wasnt  correct. 
I know L&G disagree, but there is no evidence either  way from before the repairs were 
carried out. And I dont  have any reason  to disbelieve Mr and Miss As version  of events. So, 
Im going  to ask L&G to add an amount to the cash settlement to reflect the cost of the 
repairs to the radiator.
Im aware that Mr and Miss A have  asked L&G to cover certain  further expenses  they say 
are related  to their claim. These include phone and utility bills and gardening costs. 
Im not going  to comment on that in this decision. Mr and Miss A didnt raise  these issues  
when they complained to L&G, so L&G hadnt  had an opportunity  to address them  before Mr 
and Miss A brought  their complaint to us. 
The Financial Conduct Authority rules which set out our role and powers dont allow  us to 
consider a complaint if the business  concerned hasnt had an opportunity to resolve things 
for their customer  unless the business  consents  to our doing  so, which  L&G do not in this 
case.
Mr and Miss A have been made aware that they need to make a new complaint about  those 
particular issues. Theyll  be entitled  to bring  that to us if they arent satisfied with L&Gs  
response.
In summary,  Im upholding  this complaint  in part. I dont  think L&G have  done  anything 
wrong in terms of the compensation offered to Mr and Miss A for delays and poor service. 
And I think their approach  to the cash settlement  offered to Mr and Miss A is fair and 
reasonable. However, Im satisfied on balance they should add the costs of repairs  to the 
radiator to that cash settlement. 
Ref: DRN61580685My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Miss As complaint in part.
Legal and General Insurance  Limited  should  add the costs  of repairing Mr and Miss As 
radiator to the cash settlement theyve already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Miss A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6158068