K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2002. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him PPI. 
background 
The policy and credit card were taken out via a postal application.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On his behalf, Mr Bs representative disagreed with these findings.  It has commented that 
the credit  card application had a lack of information  about PPI. The representative  has 
highlighted that when sold the policy, Mr B was self-employed. In its opinion,  the policy terms 
for a self-employed individual making an unemployment claim were  onerous.  If these terms 
had been made clear  to Mr B, the representative states that he would not have taken out the 
policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Halifax made  it clear  that Mr B didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. I have carefully  considered Mr Bs 
recollections about the sale.  However,  I am mindful  that the sale occurred a number  of 
years ago, in my view making  it more difficult to recall in detail.
On the credit card application, there was a section entitled Protecting Your Payments.  
There was a box available to tick if Mr B wanted  to take out PPI. On the form signed by 
Mr B, this box was ticked. Overall,  I consider that on balance  Mr B elected to take out 
PPI, knowing that it was an optional product.
 Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it did not have to check that it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if it 
was right for him.  
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have  been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at this time, it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so in my view it 
would have been useful for him if he wasnt working. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. Overall  in my view better information about the PPI would  not have put Mr B 
off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B and his representative have said about the sale, including  
whats been said about Mr Bs status as self-employed. The representative has quoted  some  
terms relating to making an unemployment  claim. However, these are not terms applicable 
Ref: DRN65652792to the policy  sold to Mr B. Having looked  through Mr Bs policys terms and conditions,  I 
consider that being self-employed did not make  it significantly more  difficult for an individual 
to make an unemployment claim compared to someone who was an employee. Overall  my 
conclusion is that this policy was not mis-sold.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mr B paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr B back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont  
think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr B now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6565279