K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) has 
offered to do to put things right as a result of irresponsibly giving him a Safety Net Facility.
background
Mr S approached SNC  for a Safety Net facility in 2018. This was a running credit account  
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once  their account balance  fell below a Safety Net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr S was given  a facility with an initial  credit  limit of 
£450.   
When it investigated Mr S complaint, SNC  agreed  it shouldnt have provided Mr S with his 
Safety Net facility.  And in order to put things  right,  SNC said it would remove  the interest  and 
charges applied to Mr S facility as well as removing any adverse information  recorded as a 
result of this loan from Mr S credit  file. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with this and referred his complaint  to our service. He says SNC should  
also pay him compensation because he was taken advantage of and the loan caused  him 
distress.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr S complaint. And he thought  that what SNC had 
already agreed  to do to put things  right was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case. So he didnt think it needed  to do anymore and he didnt uphold Mr S complaint.   
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I think what  SNC has agreed to do is fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr S case. Id like to explain why I think 
this.
Both Mr S and SNC  are in agreement  that Mr S shouldnt  have been given his Safety Net 
facility and any funds  as a result. So I dont need  to look at whether SNCs checks  were  
reasonable and proportionate, I only need decide whether what it has offered to do to put 
things right is fair. 
At this point it might help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it 
did something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they 
would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business  to put 
a consumer in the position  theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the loan they shouldnt  
have. 
But Mr S was given his facility and he used  the funds  although  I accept that he may not 
have benefitted  from them.  So its simply not possible to put Mr S in the position he would be 
in if he hadnt  been given  his Safety Net facility in the first place. And we have to look at what 
Ref: DRN64847902else we can do to put things right in a way thats fair to all parties.  In reality its the 
(increasing) interest and charges on these loans, on the complaints that are upheld,  thats  
the main consequence of the business giving a consumer a loan it shouldnt  have.  
As a result where a lender provided  a consumer with credit it shouldnt  have, wed expect it 
to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and 
charges on that loan.  This means wed normally expect a lender  to refund the interest  and 
charges added to any loan that shouldnt have been  given. 
And if those  interest  and charges  were paid also add 8% simple  interest  per year.  The lender 
will normally  also remove  adverse information   rather  than all reference to the loan - 
recorded on the consumers credit file as a result  of the interest and charges on those loans. 
And given  the consumer  will have had and used the funds wed usually expect the funds 
borrowed to be repaid. 
That said,  we look at cases individually and on their own merits. So while we have a general 
approach to how we how we might  tell a lender to put things right where it provided credit it 
shouldnt have (such  as here), we can tell it to do something different if theres a strong 
reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances.  
Mr S says I should tell SNC to do something different here. He says SNC should pay him 
compensation. Although hes not said how much  he thinks SNC should  pay him. Ive given a 
lot of thought to what Mr S has told us. But I dont think  that theres a strong enough 
argument for me to say thats what needs to be done in order to reach a fair outcome here.  
I appreciate Mr S feels he was taken  advantage  of as a vulnerable person, that SNC  
exploited him and that it also caused him anxiety. But I havent seen anything here to 
suggest that Mr S was targeted  by SNC. And far as I can see, it was Mr S that approached 
SNC for his Safety Net facility. It isnt in dispute  that SNC ought  to have better scrutinised  
Mr S application  thats why the complaint has been upheld. SNC didnt keep lending  to   
Mr S over an extended period either. So I think  that what SNC  has already agreed  to do 
adequately reflects  its failure to fulfil its obligations when assessing Mr S application. 
Equally from what Mr S has told us about himself and his financial circumstances at the time, 
it sounds like he was already going  through a tough  time. And, in these circumstances, Im 
not really in a position to reasonably conclude that SNC providing  him with this loan caused  
him additional anxiety, which I can clearly  identify, and which justifies an additional  
compensation payment in this case.    
So overall and having carefully thought  about what Mr S has said, I think  what  SNC  has 
agreed to do is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of his particular case. And I dont 
think it needs to do anything more in order to put things right for Mr S. 
Ref: DRN64847903my decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I think what Indigo  Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit) has agreed to do is a fair way to put things right in this case. So Im not 
asking it to do anything  more, or anything different.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6484790