K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Allianz  Insurance Plc have unfairly declined a claim shes made on 
her pet insurance  policy. 
background
In October  2017 Miss P took out pet insurance for her two cats. Unfortunately in 
September 2018 one of the cats L became  unwell  and required treatment. 
Miss P claimed on her pet insurance  policy for the cost of the treatment, which was around 
£4,000. Allianz  went on to decline  the claim. They  said that Miss P hadnt  told them about an 
instance of blood in Ls faeces that had occurred before the start of the policy.  They  said had 
they known about this they would have added  an exclusion to the policy  from the start. 
This would have excluded Gastro-intestinal  / digestive system disorders and would have  
been reviewable after 12 months.  L was treated for Pancreatitis  which  Allianz say falls within 
that exclusion. So, they declined the claim as it wouldve been excluded  if Miss P had 
answered questions  in her application form accurately.
Miss P was unhappy  with this and complained. Allianz maintained their decision and so 
Miss P brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators  thought  it should be 
upheld. He recommended  that the policy exclusion should be removed and the claim 
considered against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Allianz didnt accept this and asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Having 
reviewed the complaint,  I came to a different  outcome to our investigator. So in June 2019
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold it. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss P, so let me explain why. 
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided the insurer has asked a clear  question. If the consumer doesnt take 
reasonable care to answer the questions accurately, it sets out the remedies available  to the 
insurer.
Miss P purchased her policy online on 26 October 2017. At the time she was asked 
questions about  her cats.  One of the questions read Has  [L] shown any signs  of an illness  
or injury or been unwell, either now or in the past? This is regardless  whether or not [L] was 
seen by a vet for the problem.  I think this question is clear. 
Miss P answered No to this question. Ive also seen some  of the notes made  by Miss Ps 
vet in relation  to L. On 27 October 2017  there is an entry which says in last week owners 
have noticed a little fresh blood  on outside  of faeces.  
Ref: DRN65657972I think that having blood present in faeces can reasonably be considered  to be a sign of an 
illness or injury. And as it refers to in the last week (from 27 October 2017), I think  it most  
likely that this had been noticed  prior to when Miss P answered the question on 
26 October 2017. Id like to make  clear that Im not suggesting Miss P acted in any way 
dishonestly  but by answering No  I think Miss P failed to take reasonable care to avoid 
making a misrepresentation.
So Ive next considered what Allianz  would have done, had they been informed of the blood  
in faeces at the start of the policy. Allianz have shared some of their underwriting  guidance 
with our service. This shows  that for a condition of Diarrhoea with blood the exclusion 
quoted above would  be added for a period of 12 months. This is why our investigator thought 
the complaint  should be upheld, as whilst there was blood present, it wasnt coupled  with 
diarrhoea. 
But Allianz also provided a statement from one of their underwriters. This explains that whilst 
they do have a guidance document,  this is constantly evolving.  And that decisions are made 
by an underwriter based on the individual  circumstances of each pet and its history. Allianz 
maintain that had they been  aware  of blood in faeces at the start of the contract, they would 
have included the exclusion in question. In the circumstances of this complaint, I agree. The 
statement from the underwriter is persuasive evidence as to what  would  have happened.  
I think its more likely than not, that had Allianz known about the blood in faeces,  they would 
have added the 12 month exclusion  at the time. I think this is fair and if there had been no 
related issues within  those 12 months, the exclusion would later have been removed. 
CIDRA says that If the insurer  would have entered into the consumer insurance contract, 
but on different  terms... the contract  is to be treated as if it had been entered into on those 
different terms if the insurer  so requires.  So I think Allianz are entitled  to treat the policy as if 
the exclusion were  in place from the start.  
Ive gone on to consider whether or not Ls treatment is caught in the exclusion. The claim 
form indicates that the treatment was for Pancreatitis. Part of Allianzs submissions to our 
service included an email from a Dr H who is a qualified vet. This says Pancreatitis is a 
gastrointestinal disease. Based on this, Im satisfied  that the claim has been fairly declined  
under the policy  exclusion. 
Miss P and her own vet make the point that L was treated for colitis between 4 November 
and 20 December 2017. And that instances  of blood in faeces might have been  post-
operative issues due to L having been castrated.
Ive considered these  points. But the blood  was noticed prior to both the castration (which 
took place on 27 October  2017) and the start of the policy. So it doesnt  matter specifically 
what caused the blood to be present in October 2017.  The fact that it was present and 
Allianz werent made aware of this when the contract was entered into, means they are 
entitled to add the exclusion. I understand this will be disappointing for Miss P, but I dont 
think Allianz have  acted unfairly.  
For the reasons  outlined  above, but subject to any further information I receive from either  
Miss P or Allianz Insurance Plc, I dont intend  to uphold this complaint.
Allianz didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  Miss P responded and raised some further 
points which  Ill address below. Now both parties have had the opportunity  to comment,  I can 
go ahead  with my final decision. 
Ref: DRN65657973my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Much of Miss Ps submissions refer to further details of Ls health whilst the policy  was 
running. What is relevant  to this complaint is what was known prior to entering into the 
insurance contract on 26 October  2017. The question Allianz asked  refers  to if there is any 
sign of illness or injury or having  been  unwell. 
I accept what Miss P says about L not being  unwell in himself. But I maintain that having  
blood on the outside of faeces  as recorded in the vets notes  from 27 October  is 
something that can only reasonably be considered as a sign of an illness  or injury. Miss P 
was obviously concerned enough to mention  it to the vet at the time. So irrespective  of 
whether or not it developed into a diagnosed illness  or injury, I still think this is something 
that should have prompted a positive answer to Allianzs question. 
Miss P has provided further vet notes  from December  2017 which  refer to a sample of 
faeces and being uncertain  as to which of her two cats it came from. But again, the key 
consideration is what the case was when answering  the question on 26 October 2017. At the 
top of the page of questions Miss P was asked it says We need  to ask you some questions  
about your pets.  If there is anything you dont understand please give us a call. 
If Miss P was unsure (when answering  the question)  which of the two cats had blood in their 
faeces, I still think she reasonably could have been  expected to have  contacted Allianz. As 
this is a circumstance where despite  the question being clear there may not be a simple yes 
/ no answer. And taking  all the circumstances as a whole, Im still of the opinion  that Miss P 
failed to take reasonable care to avoid making  a misrepresentation.  
Miss P reiterates her point that blood was never accompanied by diarrhoea. I again accept 
this. I essentially have  to make a judgement on what I think Allianz would have done had 
they been aware of blood in faeces at the start of the policy.  The first option is that they 
would have continued the policy without  adding any exclusions or endorsements. The 
second is that they would have added the exclusion mentioned above.  
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I find the statement from the underwriter 
persuasive evidence  as to what Allianz  would have done at the time. Im satisfied with their 
explanation as to why their guidance  cant be totally comprehensive, evolves and relies on 
an underwriter making  a decision in each individual  case. 
I understand Miss Ps concerns that through  necessity my decision deals with a lot of 
uncertainties  all considered with the benefit of hindsight. But my role is to make a 
judgement based  on the balance of probabilities. 
I dont doubt the impact  of this situation on Miss P. But for me to be able to direct Allianz to 
reconsider her claim,  Id need to be persuaded theyd acted outside the terms of the policy, 
CIDRA or unfairly. And on the evidence Ive seen,  I dont  think they have. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN65657974Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6565797