K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000. Mrs H 
says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs H says she didnt know anything about  the PPI and she didnt know it was added to her 
account. But based on the evidence  Ive seen I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs H 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she cant remember this. I say this having seen a copy of her credit  card application form 
which included a section  for PPI. In this there is both a yes and no option for the policy  
and the yes box has been ticked. Mrs H then signed the application form consenting to the 
information contained within it. And as this was a postal  application  form, Mrs H made this 
decision freely  in her own space and time and without any involvement from Capital One 
other than the provision  of the application form itself.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if the policy was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think
better information about the policy would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs H says the PPI wasnt of any use to her as she was entitled to adequate sick pay from 
her employer. The PPI policy  wouldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event Mrs H was 
unable to work  and this wouldve been in addition  to and for longer than her full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So these funds  couldve  been  used for other  expenses  - and I think  Mrs H
wouldve found the PPI particularly useful  when her sick pay reduced to half.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN68160402my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6816040