K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about the advice he received  from Professional Financial Services  to 
transfer his pension funds.
background 
Acting on advice from PFS,  Mr T transferred  four pension funds to a self invested personal 
pension (SIPP) in 2010. And he took a tax free lump sum, which  was reinvested into a bond.
In 2012, again on advice  from PFS, Mr T transferred his pension  funds to an open  annuity 
with a different  provider.  And he started  taking income at that time.
Mr T complained to PFS in November 2015. He said in particular:
The advice he had received from PFS in 2010  to take tax free cash  had been 
unsuitable. He had still been  working and did not need the capital. So he felt it would 
have made more sense to leave the money  in his pension  pot.
The advice to move  his SIPP to an annuity in 2012 had also been  unsuitable. He had 
clearly stated at all times that he didnt want an annuity or to be tied into a contract. 
He was a higher  rate tax payer,  didnt  need the money and had no plans to retire. 
And he wanted his children to receive any residue of his pension  funds  after he and 
his wife had died.
Mr T received a letter from PFS in April 2016  acknowledging receipt  of his complaint but 
heard nothing further. So he brought  his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint. But Mr T didnt agree with our investigators 
conclusions, and asked  for his complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 11 October 2019. I said, in summary:
I was disappointed that, despite  a number of requests,  PFSs  partners  had failed to 
provide its business file or even respond to requests  for information. In the absence 
of this information Id had to reach  my decision on the basis of the information we 
had been able to gather from the pension providers  and Mr T;
Mr T was unhappy about the advice he received in 2010  to transfer his pension  funds  
to a SIPP, take 25% tax free cash and reinvest  that money  into a bond. Id seen 
reference in the correspondence  to Mr Ts attitude  to risk being balanced,  and that 
his aim was to achieve some growth  in his funds  over the next 10 years.  Mr T himself 
had stated that his main objective  was not to lose money  and get a reasonable 
return on my investments,  and that he was prepared to take some risk. I also noted 
that he has said that he had no plans to retire at the time,  and wanted to tidy up 
things from an administrative point of view. On that basis,  my provisional  view was 
that the advice  to transfer the four pension funds to the SIPP was not of itself 
unsuitable. But I noted that the pension was invested 100% in the Threadneedle  UK 
Money Market fund. I was not persuaded that this was suitable  for Mr T, given his 
attitude to risk.
Ref: DRN61331962In addition, Mr T said that he shouldnt have been advised to take 25% tax free cash  
at that time, as he was still working  and didnt need capital.  Id considered  what Mr T 
had to say on that issue  and, having  done so, I was minded  to agree with him. While 
my provisional view was that the bond  wasnt necessarily unsuitable  for his attitude to 
risk, as Mr T didnt need to take the money  I was persuaded  that his funds would 
have performed better within  the more favourable tax environment  of the SIPP.  In 
addition, Mr T paid adviser fees on the purchase  of the bond, which reduced the 
amount invested.
Mr T was advised to take out an open  annuity in 2012. He said that hed clearly 
stated at all times  that he didnt  want an annuity or to be tied into a contract, nor take 
an income as he was a higher rate tax payer, didnt need the money and had no 
plans to retire.  And he said that he wasnt aware that hed been  advised to take out 
an annuity until 2015, when he met a new adviser.
Having carefully considered all the information  available to me I was again 
provisionally persuaded to agree that the advice was unsuitable for his 
circumstances. Given that Mr T was still working   and continued to do so until 2017  
 I could see no compelling reason for him to take out an open  annuity at that time, 
only 2 years after he transferred his funds to the SIPP. The annuity gave him less 
flexibility than the SIPP, in that he was forced  to take income payments he didnt 
need. By taking  an income from the annuity  he reduced the funds within  his pension 
as well as incurring  tax on the payments at 40%. And his funds were  again reduced 
by the additional fees paid to PFS on the transfer.
I was also provisionally satisfied that Mr T had been caused  a great deal of trouble 
and upset as a result of the unsuitable  advice he received. My understanding was 
that the only options now open to Mr T were  to either remain  in the open annuity or to 
transfer his benefits  to a replacement annuity. Unfortunately,  he was not now able to 
take advantage of the pension freedoms that came into effect in April 2015. In 
addition, I was also provisionally satisfied that Mr T has been caused  further  distress  
by the way in which  PFS had handled his complaint, and failed  to respond to his 
concerns. So my provisional  decision was that PFS should pay Mr T £1,000 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he had been caused.
legal representatives  response to provisional  view
PFS appointed a legal  representative  which responded to my provisional decision.  It said,  in 
summary:
Mr T didnt appear to have taken  issue with the suitability of the investment in 2010 
so it wasnt clear  why this service had stated that it was not suitable;
The real issue with the 2010 advice  appeared to be that Mr T took 25% tax-free cash. 
There was no documentation surrounding  this and simply Mr Ts bare assertion that 
he didnt require the tax free cash.  It didnt feel it reasonable for me to conclude that 
releasing the tax free cash was unsuitable  simply on the basis  of what  Mr T now said;
It supplied a copy of a file note dated  September 2012 which recorded that Mr T had 
decided he would  probably retire at the end of 2012. And it said that PFS cannot be 
penalised because  Mr T changed  his mind  about  his retirement  plans;
Ref: DRN61331963Mr T was already 67 years  old in September 2012 so it was perfectly reasonable for 
the PFS adviser to take what  he was told at face value  and to put in place 
arrangements which  would allow Mr T to draw  down an income according to his 
instructions;
Mr T had previously  expressed concerns that the annuity would mean losing his 
funds in the event of his death. PFSs adviser had explained  that this was not the 
case and Mr T took no further issue with the matter;
The burden of proof  in this matter must be on Mr T. Such  evidence  as there was 
indicated that he was looking to retire and suitable arrangements were put in place to 
accommodate that.
my response to representatives submissions
I considered PFSs representatives submissions and responded to them  in April 2020. I said, 
in summary:
This service has an inquisitorial remit, which means that Mr T doesnt need  to have 
made a specific complaint  in order for us to look at it. The Threadneedle UK Money 
market Fund was a money market fund. Mr T was prepared to accept some  risk to 
his investment so I wasnt persuaded that this fund was suitable for Mr Ts attitude to 
risk;
I agreed that it was unfortunate  that PFS had been unable  to supply this service  with 
copies of the point of sale documentation. however, in the absence  of information or 
where there is a dispute as to what happened, my role as ombudsman  was to weigh 
up all the relevant facts and arguments and then decide  on the balance of 
probability  the version of events that seems the more likely;
I noted that PFSs adviser recalled  that Mr T had referenced having the tax free cash  
available to potentially  assist his children with property purchases. However  this 
didnt change my view. If Mr T had wished  to help his children it seemed to me that 
he could have taken  money from his SIPP  when  needed, rather  than putting it into a 
bond and paying  charges to do so;
Id considered the file note from September 2012  and the representatives comments  
about Mr Ts age at the time and the fact that the note recorded that Mr T wanted to 
proceed. But I hadnt been persuaded to change my view. Although the note 
recorded that Mr T had been  thinking about retiring at the time, it was clear  from 
events that he hadnt  done  so. But I was persuaded that he was probably looking for 
flexibility and the ability to take an income as and when  he needed  to do so;
PFS advised Mr T to transfer his funds  to the open annuity. As set out in my 
provisional decision this was a fairly high cost product and the transfer  took place 
only two years after the previous transfer,  incurring further fees. If Mr T had found 
that he needed an income then he would have been  able to drawdown from his 
SIPP. So I remained persuaded that the most suitable advice for him at the time 
would have been to leave  his funds in the SIPP and drawdown as and when he 
needed to do so. And I felt that if PFS had advised Mr T to do so he would have 
followed that advice.  
Ref: DRN61331964my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PFSs representative has responded to my letter of April 2020. It says, in summary:
It remains concerns that the matter is being  judged with no small amount of 
hindsight;
The contemporaneous evidence from the time recorded that Mr T was looking to 
retire at the end of 2012 and wanted to take the maximum pension income he could;
At this point Mr T was earning around  £40,000  pa which explained why he would be 
looking to obtain the maximum possible income from his pension;
It is incorrect to suggest that income  and the earlier lump sum could simply have 
been taken from Mr Ts SIPP as and when required.
Ive carefully considered  everything that Mr Ts representative has to say in response  to my 
provisional view but, having done  so, Im not persuaded to change my view.  
As Ive previously explained, only limited evidence has been available to me in relation to 
this complaint. In particular, PFS has not supplied me with a copy  of the point of sale 
documentation from either the 2010 or 2012  transactions. Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I note that PFSs representative says that the only contemporaneous evidence shows  that 
Mr T was looking to retire at the end of 2012. But I dont  agree. The note that PFS supplied 
in response to my provisional view says:
[Mr T] has decided  to probably retire at the end of 2012.
Im satisfied from this that Mr T had not made a firm decision at that time to retire,  but that he 
wanted to discuss  his options. And I remain satisfied that what  he was really looking for was 
flexibility. I also remain satisfied that the most suitable advice for him at the time would have 
been to leave his funds  in the SIPP, for the reasons Ive previously given.
PFSs representative has raised certain issues around how Mr T would  have been  able to 
take money from his SIPP at the time. In particular, it says that if Mr T wanted  to take 
£50,000 PCLS he would have had to draw  it in 2010. But although PFSs adviser says that 
he recollects that Mr T had referenced  having tax free cash  available to potentially  assist his 
children with property  purchase,  Ive not seen any evidence  to support this. And Im not 
persuaded that it would  have been suitable advice to advise him to take the PCLS  in 2010 
on the off-chance that he might need  it when  as set out in my provisional  decision  Im 
satisfied that his money was likely to have performed better  within the SIPP.  So this doesnt 
change my decision.
PFS also says that the open annuity provided  Mr T with a higher  income  than he would have  
been able to drawdown from the SIPP. But, although I appreciate that the note that PFS has 
Ref: DRN61331965supplied indicated that Mr T chose the product as he wanted the higher income,  this doesnt 
mean that it was suitable for him.
Overall, I remain satisfied  that the open  annuity  was not a suitable recommendation for Mr T 
given the charges associated with it, and the fact that it didnt afford Mr T the flexibility he 
required.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think that Mr T would  have transferred his four pension funds to the SIPP  in 2010, but 
would not have taken tax free cash at that time. He would not have taken out an open 
annuity in 2012, but would  have left his funds in the SIPP until his retirement  in 2017. Mr T 
retired on 25 January  2017. On that date I think he would have taken 25% tax free cash and 
would have invested that money in his bond.  He would also have started to drawdown his 
benefits from the SIPP at the same rate as he is actually taking income from the open 
annuity.
I also think that Mr T would have invested differently  within his SIPP. Its not possible  to say 
precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied  that what  Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr T's circumstances and objectives when  he invested.
what should  PFS do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, PFS must:
(1) Establish the actual current transfer value of Mr Ts open annuity policy as at the date 
of my decision. Apply a notional reduction to this value to allow for the income  tax 
Mr T will pay in future. I intend  to assume  that Mr T will be a 20% taxpayer which  
means making a 20% reduction  (this is not an actual deduction of tax and no sum will 
be paid to HMRC in respect  of this);
(2) Establish the net of tax value  of the income payments Mr T has taken from the open 
annuity policy to the date of my decision, including interest on each payment. Mr T 
has confirmed that he has left the income payments in his bank account, so the 
interest rate should be the actual  rate applied to his account;
(3) Establish the actual current surrender  value  of Mr Ts bond as at the date of my 
decision;
(4) Calculate the current  notional  transfer  value of Mr Ts SIPP, using the following 
assumptions:
that Mr T took 25% tax free cash on 25 January 2017;
that he did not take an income  until 25 January 2017;
that from 25 January  2017 he has taken income at the same  rate as he has actually  
taken income from the open  annuity;
that his funds in the SIPP were invested in accordance with the benchmark  set out 
below.
Ref: DRN61331966Apply a notional reduction to this value to allow for the income tax Mr T will pay in 
future. I intend  to assume that Mr T will be a 20% taxpayer which  means making a 
20% reduction (this is not an actual deduction of tax and no sum will be paid to 
HMRC in respect of this);
The benchmark to be used is as follows  for half the investment: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index, for the other half: average rate from fixed rate 
bonds.
Ive chosen this benchmark  because:
 Mr T wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for 
someone who wanted  to achieve a reasonable return  without  risk to his 
capital.
 The FTSE  UK Private Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income  total return index) is made up of 
a range of indices with different asset  classes, mainly  UK equities and 
government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared  to take 
some risk to get a higher  return.
 I consider that Mr T's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives.  So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr T into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr T would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed  rate 
bond and 50% in some  kind of index tracker  investment.  Rather,  I consider  
this a reasonable compromise that broadly  reflects  the sort of return Mr T 
could have obtained from investments suited to his objective  and risk attitude.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  PFS 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published by the Bank  of England.  The rate for each  month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month.  Those  rates should  be applied  to the investment 
on an annually compounded basis.
(5) Value the tax free cash Mr T could have received at the start of drawing down from 
his SIPP from (4) above, including interest  at the rate he would have received if he 
had invested this money in his bond;
(6) Determine any loss as at the date of calculation as (4 + 5)  (1 + 2 + 3).
If there is a loss, PFS should pay this amount  to Mr T, together  with interest at 8% simple 
per year from the date of my decision to the date of settlement (if compensation is not paid 
within 28 days of the business being notified  of acceptance).
Pay Mr T £1,000 for his distress and inconvenience.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much  has been  taken off. PFS should give Mr T a tax 
Ref: DRN61331967deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Professional Financial Services to pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6133196