K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited declined a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. A copy is attached  
and forms part of this, my final decision. 
I explained that I was intending to uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct  UKI to settle his claim 
because I didnt think theyd acted fairly  by declining his claim. I also said I was intending  to 
award compensation for the trouble and upset Mr L experienced as a result. 
UKI accepted my provisional decision and Mr L didnt add any further comments. So I need 
to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepted my provisional decision and Mr L didnt add any further comments. So theres 
no reason for me to reach a different conclusion to the one I outlined in my provisional  
decision. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct  U K Insurance Limited to pay his claim for 
accommodation which I understand  was €580. UKI should use the exchange  rate at the time 
Mr L paid for the accommodation in order to settle  the claim and also pay 8% simple interest 
from the date the claim was rejected  to the date of settlement. They should also pay him 
£150 compensation for the delay in accepting a claim for the reasons Ive explained.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65651432COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr L is unhappy that U K Insurance  Limited  declined  a claim he made on his travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr L has travel insurance  linked to his package bank account. He was on holiday in his boat when the 
boat hit some rocks. The boat was damaged so Mr L and the crew  made their way to the nearest port. 
The boat flooded and Mr L says they couldnt stay in it. So he arranged accommodation costing about 
£500. 
UKI declined  the claim on the basis that Mr Ls trip wasnt curtailed and that it didnt fall within the 
catastrophe section of the policy which  covered situations where a policyholders accommodation 
was flooded. This was because  Mr L hadnt pre-booked  or pre-paid for his boat, it belonged to him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think the claim  fell within the policy  terms.  
Mr L didnt agree, pointing out that pre-booked accommodation wasnt defined  in the policy. He asked 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr L asked  that I discuss the complaint  with him before  reaching my decision so I could  understand 
his point of view. Our service  is designed to resolve complaints  informally. I dont think its necessary 
for me to speak to Mr L as Im satisfied I have enough information  to reach  a decision. And, in any 
event, I intend to uphold his complaint.
The relevant rules  and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim  unreasonably.  
Its not in dispute that Mr Ls boat was damaged and flooded.  Its also not in dispute that he had to get 
alternative accommodation. The policy terms and conditions cover water-based activities, including 
yachting. It offers catastrophe cover which covers the policyholder  for necessary extra travel and 
accommodation expenses if they can no longer  stay at their pre-booked and prepaid accommodation  
(up to a limit of £5000). 
Im intending  to uphold this complaint because:  
Mr L was travelling outside the UK and has a UK address, which I understand is his normal  
place of residence. I think he could  reasonably expect his travel insurance to cover him if he 
unexpectedly couldnt use his boat because of a flood and needed  to find somewhere else to 
stay whilst he was on holiday
The policy  doesnt define pre-booked or prepaid so it is silent on UKIs position where a 
policyholder is using their own property  for the holiday. If UKI dont want  to cover 
policyholders like Mr L using their own accommodation Id expect  to see a clear  exclusion or 
policy condition confirming this 
The only reason for the claim being declined  is because  Mr L owned  the boat. Had he rented 
it hed have  been  covered.  UKI havent  pointed me to any specific exclusion  or definition 
which says they exclude  cover  when a policyholder is staying  in their own accommodation. 
So I dont think it is fair and reasonable  to decline his claim when this isnt clear from the 
Ref: DRN65651433policy term and conditions
Mr L has experienced a financial loss because he had to book another  hotel when  his boat 
was flooded and he couldnt stay on it. Im satisfied he took reasonable steps to keep his 
costs to a minimum  he paid €580 for accommodation for a week while the boat was 
repaired which seems  reasonable especially considering it was peak season.  I think  UKI 
should pay the claim. And Mr L has been out of pocket during the time its taken  to resolve 
this so UKI should pay 8% simple interest  on this amount
Ive seen  evidence that Mr L was unable to recover these  financial  losses from his boat 
insurance policy and he was referred to his travel insurer for such expenses. So Im satisfied 
that he hasnt recovered  the money  elsewhere 
I also think  Mr L has been caused inconvenience by UKI declining  the claim. I think UKI 
should have settled  this claim  at the outset. I think the delay in accepting the claim  has 
caused Mr L inconvenience and Im intending  to direct  UKI to pay him £150 for this. 
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited  to pay his claim for 
accommodation which  I understand was €580. UKI should use the exchange  rate at the time Mr L 
paid for the accommodation  in order to settle the claim  and also pay 8% simple interest from the date 
the claim was rejected to the date of settlement. They should also pay him £150 compensation  for the 
delay in accepting  a claim for the reasons Ive explained.  
If Mr L or UKI has anything to add they should let me know  by 31 January  2020
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6565143