K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has recorded adverse information about  him to 
CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service.
background
Mr L had an account  with Barclays. And he says he must have lost the debit card and his 
PIN which he kept in his wallet. He thinks he last used the card for a contactless  payment 
made at 13:23  on 18 August 2018.  He reported  it lost at 17:00 that day. But before then a 
fraudulently obtained credit  of £1,850 was paid into his account at 14:45.  And then this was 
soon withdrawn - £1,500  through  a Barclays ASD branch machine and £300 through  a cash 
machine by 15:21 that day. Barclays decided to close Mr Ls account and record adverse 
information about him. Mr L says that he didnt  know anything about these transactions and 
that he now cant open a bank account anywhere  else. 
Barclays considered  that Mr L had authorised  and received the withdrawal of this money.  It 
noted that on 8 August 2018 hed increased  his cashpoint withdrawal limit from £300 to 
£500. The ASD withdrawal would have required Mr Ls card,  PIN and date of birth.  There  
was no clear way in which a fraudster could  have been able to make this withdrawal. Or 
explanation why that person made no further  attempts to access the account. Barclays had 
declined a fraud claim by Mr L in May 2018  as it said there  was then no way in which  his PIN 
had then been compromised. And this time another business had reported that these funds 
paid into his account and then withdrawn  were fraudulently obtained.  So Barclays said it had 
fairly recorded information at CIFAS  and closed his account.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-Mr L said he kept his card and PIN together as he couldnt remember  his PIN due to 
a medical condition. When he realised this was lost he couldnt call anyone  as his 
phone wasnt charged and he needed  to travel on a bus to a family members  home.
-Mr L had originally  told her that he didnt  know  how someone had found out his date 
of birth needed for the ASD withdrawal  and that hed not lost any identity documents.  
But after shed issued an initial view about  the complaint he said hed been to meet  
someone hed been  exchanging messages with on social  media that day. And that 
person had wanted to know his age before they met. He didnt have any evidence to 
support this and says he didnt think that this was important before.
-She didnt accept his account of what happened  as most likely and that it was only a 
coincidence that his card was taken just at the time the credit was paid into his 
account. Mr L said hed increased the cash machine withdrawal limit so he could 
spend money on clothes.  But there was no evidence of any legitimate credit for this 
or reason why hed have needed to pay in cash.
-She considered  Mr L was aware  of the fraudulent credit and authorised the 
withdrawals and so the CIFAS marker was added correctly.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that his messages about  meeting  someone  that day had been 
deleted and shed  blocked him from her social media account. He remained unhappy that he 
wouldnt be able to open a bank account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62183372I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2017. And to think about 
whether Mr L authorised  the payments from his account. Thats more than the payments 
being authenticated but would require him to consent to them.  If he didnt  authorise  them  
then generally  Barclays  wouldnt  be able to hold him responsible  for them. 
I also need to consider  whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays  
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show  it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud  or financial crime had been committed  or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported  to the authorities. 
So Ill be considering 
-Whether I think Mr L knew  about this money in his account and authorised the 
withdrawals.
-The evidence Barclays has to support the CIFAS  marker.
the transactions on his account
Ive seen evidence  that the credit to his account  was reported as fraudulently obtained by a 
third party business  the following day. Barclays has provided technical evidence  about the 
withdrawals on his account on 18 August 2018.  Ive seen  that balance  enquiries were made 
on his account  after the credit was received. And this included  an enquiry at the ASD 
machine when the chip on his card was read and the correct  PIN entered.  A further 
withdrawal was then made at a cashpoint at the same location  using the genuine card and 
PIN. And then further balance enquiries made   the last at 15:52 that day. Im satisfied from 
what Ive seen that the withdrawals on the account  were authenticated. 
Ive read the earlier notes  of the calls our investigator has had with Mr L. And she asked him 
for any explanation  of how his date of birth was discovered. He said he didnt know and also 
that he wasnt with anyone.
Hes now given a very different account  and said he didnt remember meeting someone 
before. He has been unable to give any evidence of meeting her or even told us what her 
name was. Im afraid  Im struggling  to find Mr Ls evidence about this credible  and so I think 
this undermines his version of events.
To find that the transactions  were made without Mr Ls knowledge  and authority Id need to 
think that all the following  were most likely:
-A third party was able to take or find Mr Ls card and the PIN number that hed written 
down without him realising at the time.
-That third party  was somehow able to find out his date of birth  including the 
explanation he now says must  have been planned.
-Mr L was reasonably unable to report this loss when he discovered  it and by chance 
only reported it when  all the money  had left his account.
-The person  in possession of his details (possibly after 13:23  that day when the 
contactless payment  was made)  was able quickly to arrange  for a significant amount  
of money to be paid fraudulently into his account.
-That person  was able to withdraw the money  using Mr Ls details within 40 minutes 
of it being credited.  Although further balance enquiries were made that day there 
were no further attempts by that person to use the card for withdrawals.
Ref: DRN62183373Im afraid that these  arent all findings  Im able to make on the available  evidence  and taking 
into account what Ive said about  the credibility of Mr L. Im satisfied that he consented to 
these transactions  and authorised them. And that he was aware  as a result that these were 
withdrawals of money in his account that he wasnt entitled to. 
CIFAS marker  
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because  Mr L received fraudulent  funds into 
his account. So Ive looked at whether  Barclays was fair to apply the marker,  based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation  it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard  of proof  set by CIFAS. This 
essentially says that Barclays  needs to have  enough information to make a formal  report  to 
the police. And that any filing should  be for cases where there are reasonable grounds  to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed,  rather than mere suspicion.  
Having reviewed Mr Ls account of events and the evidence Barclays  has provided,  Im 
satisfied that Barclays  had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker  to be recorded.  In 
coming to this view,  Ive taken into account the following reasons:
-Mr L received fraudulent funds into his account  and didnt  report this to Barclays  at 
the time.
-He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so benefitted from this money.
-Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr L had used  fraudulently  obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I appreciate that this will be a great disappointment to Mr L as the marker is having a 
detrimental effect on him. But given what Ive said above, I dont think Barclays has treated 
him unfairly  in recording the CIFAS marker  and also in closing his account.  So I wont  be 
asking it to do anymore.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6218337