K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Cambridge Building Society refused to open  a new account  for her as 
she didnt have a mobile telephone.
background
Mrs W says shes  been a customer  of Cambridge for 25 years  and tried to open  a new 
account but her application was refused as she doesnt have a mobile telephone. She says 
she provided evidence  of her identity  and has been  discriminated against.  She also says she 
offered to use her husbands mobile telephone number but Cambridge said it wouldnt allow 
her to. Mrs W says she cant  be the only person without a mobile telephone and that other 
banks and building societies allow accounts to be opened without  mobile telephone details.
Cambridge says its not made a mistake and says for accounts opened over the telephone it 
requires a customer to have a mobile telephone  as part of its fraud  and security measures 
as this type of account doesnt  require a signature. It says it offered to open an account for 
Mrs W in its branch or to send her an application form and both of these methods would 
have avoided the requirement  for a mobile  telephone number.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought that it was up to Cambridge to make these  sorts of business decisions and that it 
had offered reasonable alternatives. The investigator didnt think  Cambridge had made  a 
mistake or acted unfairly.
Mrs W doesnt accept that view and has asked for it to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  Mrs W will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that its up to Cambridge to decide what information it requires from customers  
before opening  an account  when it exercises its commercial  judgement.  Im also satisfied 
that Cambridge  is entitled to make  such  decisions  about the security  of an account  and that 
is not something I can fairly tell Cambridge to change or interfere in.
I find that Cambridge  has explained its position to Mrs W and provided  her with what  I think  
are reasonable alternatives. I can see that Cambridge has offered to send Mrs W an 
application form that she could complete and has offered  to make an appointment for her at 
a branch. Im satisfied  that both of these alternatives would avoid the need for Mrs W to 
provide mobile  telephone details. I appreciate Mrs W says it would cause inconvenience in 
attending a branch. But Im satisfied Cambridge has tried to find a way to help her and I think  
completing an application form and sending it back to Cambridge would avoid that 
inconvenience in any event.
I appreciate Mrs W says other businesses do not have similar rules  about the ownership of a 
mobile telephone. But I cant fairly comment on that as Im only looking at Mrs Ws complaint 
about Cambridge. For the reasons Ive explained  I dont think  Cambridge has acted unfairly 
or made a mistake and so I cant order it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN60315552my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6031555