K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complained  because Pepper  (UK) Limited, trading as Engage Credit, told them  
that they couldnt port (transfer) their mortgage  to a different property. When  they took out 
their mortgage with a different lender, it had offered a porting facility. But their mortgage had 
been taken over by Pepper, and Pepper  said it didnt offer any porting facilities.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out their mortgage with another lender in June 2007.  They  borrowed 
£166,250 plus £4,795  of fees added to the mortgage. It was on an interest  only basis  over 
25 years.
The mortgage offer set out that if Mr and Mrs J repaid  the mortgage before 30 June 2009, 
there would be an early repayment charge  (ERC)  of 6% of the balance outstanding. If they 
repaid the mortgage after that date,  theyd have to pay an ERC  of 1 months interest.
But paragraph 7 of the mortgage offer said:
If, in the future, you want to move  home  you may be able to transfer this mortgage product 
to a new property  without incurring any early repayment charge. This option  is available  
subject to your meeting  certain criteria and our approval.
In January 2014, Mr and Mrs Js previous lender transferred their mortgage  to Pepper. The 
letter confirming this said that there  are no changes to your mortgage conditions arising 
from the transfer.
In July 2018, Mr and Mrs J were thinking  of moving home, and got in touch with Pepper 
about porting  their mortgage to a new property. Pepper said it didnt offer a porting facility. It 
told them  that a porting  facility wasnt guaranteed under their mortgage, and it was always at 
the discretion  of the lender based  on current lending  criteria. Pepper said that due to 
regulatory constraints,  it had taken a commercial decision not to accept any applications for 
porting. 
Mr and Mrs J werent  satisfied and complained to this service. 
The investigator upheld  Mr and Mrs Js complaint. She said that Mr and Mrs J had a 
reasonable expectation of being  allowed to port their mortgage in future. If they moved to 
another lender, theyd have to pay an ERC.  The investigator said she understood that 
Pepper could  take commercial decisions  and change  policies, but this could cause 
unfairness to individuals. Pepper  was a fully authorised and regulated  business  under the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys register, so it had the necessary powers  and there was no 
reason why it couldnt port Mr and Mrs Js mortgage.
Pepper didnt  agree. It told us that Mr and Mrs J wouldnt have any ERC  to pay if they left 
Pepper. It also said that by declining all porting applications, it wasnt  varying the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage, but was just making a commercial decision to amend its internal 
policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN65725792The wording  of Mr and Mrs Js mortgage offer, which Ive quoted  above,  clearly  gave them  a 
reasonable expectation that they might in future be able to port the mortgage to a new 
property. I agree that it isnt guaranteed, but the conditions are about whether or not Mr and 
Mrs J met lending  criteria. Mr and Mrs Js approach  to Pepper was at initial  stages, and the 
refusal wasnt anything  to do with the detail of whether or not they met lending criteria.  
In its final response letter,  Pepper told Mr and Mrs J that the reason it had taken the decision 
not to allow  any porting  applications was due to regulatory constraints. Pepper hasnt 
specified what it means by that. But Ive checked,  and Pepper is still authorised to lend by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. So Im not aware  of any reason  why Pepper couldnt  as 
opposed to chose not to  accept porting applications in general.
Ive considered the ERC. As Pepper  told Mr and Mrs J they couldnt port their mortgage, this 
was effectively forcing them to go elsewhere  for a mortgage on a new property. This meant 
that, under the terms and conditions of their mortgage, theyd have to pay an ERC. Certainly 
the amount theyd  have to pay dropped considerably after 30 June 2009, but theres  still 
provision for a charge of one months  interest. Pepper told us that it hasnt changed the 
terms and conditions, but its also said that no ERC would be payable if Mr and Mrs J move  
their mortgage elsewhere. I think this is a contradiction,  but Mr and Mrs J will want to know  
that Pepper has confirmed there will be no ERC if they change lender. 
I cant order Pepper to accept any porting application Mr and Mrs J might make. That will 
depend on the detail of what they want,  including  the amount  they want  to borrow  and the 
value of the new property. I understand they havent  yet found a property they like. But I can 
order Pepper to consider  any porting  application  Mr and Mrs J may make,  in line with its 
lending criteria, giving it fair and reasonable assessment. If Mr and Mrs J make an 
application to port and Pepper declines this, they can complain  to Pepper in the first 
instance. And if they remain unhappy with Peppers  response, they can bring their complaint 
to us.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Pepper  (UK) Limited,  trading as 
Engage Credit, to consider any porting application which  Mr and Mrs J may make,  in line 
with its lending criteria.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6572579