K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1999. Mr and Mrs A say NRAM Plc mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  about the sale. Mr and Mrs A have said the policy  was 
added without their knowledge  or consent. But they havent given us much more detail about  
what happened or what was said during the sale.  And NRAM hasnt been  able to send us 
any evidence from the sale showing Mr and Mrs A chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount 
of time that has passed since the sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that NRAM added the PPI without Mr and Mrs As 
knowledge or consent. So I think its likely NRAM made it clear to Mr and Mrs A that they 
had a choice about it, and that they chose to take it.
NRAM didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs A got the information  they needed to decide  if 
the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information NRAM gave Mr and Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr and Mrs A were affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  
And the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than theyve told us they wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay. So it would have been useful for them if something went  wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs A property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs A off taking it out.
Which means NRAM doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But NRAM will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A because : 
NRAM got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because NRAM didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs A, that was unfair.
To put that right, NRAM has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN65385452what the business needs  to do
NRAM has to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. NRAM  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
NRAM should pay back to Mr and Mrs A the extra  they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. NRAM should also 
pay Mr and Mrs A 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs A can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so NRAM Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But NRAM Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6538545