K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C has complained Allianz Insurance Plc have unfairly priced  the cost of her pet 
insurance policy when  compared to the price offered to new customers. 
Background
Mrs C took out a Pet Plan lifetime pet insurance policy in 2014 to cover her dog. The policy  
is underwritten by Allianz. 
Mrs C made  a complaint  after seeing  her 2018 renewal price as she had seen cheaper 
quotes for the same policy online.  She doesnt  think its right that there is such  a large 
difference in price between what she is paying and a quote for a new policy. Shes also 
unhappy that shes not received an explanation about why there was such a difference  in 
price.
Allianz say Mrs Cs premium is correct for the risk presented to them.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for 
the insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business  what  their 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how they 
should operate  and thats  not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Cs policy is too high, 
she should have  been charged less for the policy or that she should  be charged less in the 
future.
Generally, the more  risk the insurer  is taking  in providing cover,  the more the policy will cost.  
Thats why the cost of this type of policy goes up each year as the pet gets older   theres  
more risk of an older pet needing  treatment  than a younger pet. This is something Mrs C 
accepts. But there are also reasons why a new policy is likely to be cheaper than a policy 
that was taken out some time ago, and renewed each year since  then.
A new policy wont provide cover  for any pre-existing medical conditions and therell be a 14 
day exclusion period,  which  limits the risk Allianz  are taking  - so a new policy  will generally 
work out cheaper. And in addition to that, Allianz  applied a 10% discount incentive,  which  I 
know Mrs C acknowledges. 
Allianz will also take into account the possibility  a pet may have visited the vet since the 
policy started, without  a claim  being made. Any subsequent claim for anything  related to this 
wouldnt be covered  by a new policy but it would be by an existing policy. So, the difference 
in premium will reflect this additional risk to them too.
Mrs Cs Pet Plan policy isnt claims loaded  like a lot of other policies. So, any claim made 
wouldnt have directly  impacted the premium she paid. And I can understand why Mrs C 
feels that the policy price  should be the same  for the same breed of dog, of the same  age, 
living at the same address. But while that might  be right for a policy  taken out on the exact 
same day, a direct comparison cannot be drawn  between a policy taken  out in 2014 and a 
new policy quoted  for in 2018. 
Ref: DRN69296272I know Mrs C is frustrated she hasnt received an answer about why the price between  her 
renewal premium and quote  for a new policy were so different, even when  the 10% discount 
incentive was taken into account.  So I hope this explanation has been helpful.  
Ive carefully reviewed the information Allianz  have provided about how Mrs Cs premium  
was calculated and havent seen any evidence to suggest they have treated Mrs C 
differently to how they would have treated any other  existing policyholder  in the same  
position. So I cant say Mrs Cs premium  is unfair  or tell Allianz to charge her a lower 
premium going forwards.
Having looked  at everything, I don't think Allianz  did anything wrong when they increased 
Mrs Cs pet insurance premium.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6929627