K820x#14complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed the former 
directors to access funds  in Gs bank account, when  they were  no longer involved with the 
company. G also complains that Lloyds delayed sending copies of bank statements. Mr S, 
who is a director of G, brings the complaint  on Gs behalf.
background
G says that in May/June 2018 one of its new directors contacted Lloyds to ask that the 
former directors  be taken off the mandate for its bank account. Lloyds said it would need  a 
form signed by the account signatories (the former directors), which  G said it couldnt 
provide due to a dispute between the company and its former directors. Around the same 
time G asked the bank  for statements going back to the time the account was opened. 
Lloyds told G that it would only provide the statements  to the signatories on the account.
In June 2018 the former directors made several  payments  using the funds in the account. 
Later in June 2018, and after those payments had been made,  Lloyds put a block  on the 
account. The banks  contact notes show the block was removed two weeks  later after one of 
the former  directors told Lloyds the dispute had been resolved. The account was then closed 
(by the former directors) in August 2018. 
G complained that the delay in putting  a block in place and changing  the signatories allowed 
the former  directors to steal  from the company and close the account.  G alleged  that Lloyds 
staff had assisted  the former directors in the crime. A complaint was also raised about not 
getting the historic  account statements. G said they were required for audit and tax 
purposes, and would be essential for court  action  it was involved in.  
Lloyds responded to the complaint about  the withdrawal of the funds to say that it hadnt  
been notified about Gs new directors prior to that happening, so it wasnt  responsible. The 
bank also said it wouldnt provide the statements to Gs new director  as he wasnt party  to 
the account before it was closed.
G referred both matters to our service for review. G also took Lloyds to court regarding the 
statements, and the court ordered Lloyds to provide them  to G. An investigator  here said it 
would no longer be appropriate for our service  to consider the complaint about the 
statements not being sent, now the courts had made a finding on the issue. As for the 
money being taken  from Gs account, the investigator thought Lloyds ought to have acted 
sooner to put a block in place, once  it was on notice of a dispute. But the investigator wasnt 
satisfied G had lost out, citing  insufficient  evidence that the payments werent  costs  related 
to Gs operation.
G didnt agree with the investigators  view and said that further  evidence  would be provided 
to us about the theft of the funds. Later it said our service didnt have a right to see 
information concerning the police investigations.  As no agreement could be reached,  the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69096762not receiving the bank  statements
Our service is governed by rules, set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook, 
called the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules. DISP 3.3.4A says:
The Ombudsman  may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman
Service on or after 9 July 2015 without  considering  its merits if the Ombudsman considers 
that:
(3) the subject  matter of the complaint has been the subject  of court  proceedings where 
there has been a decision  on the merits;
A judge reviewed  the issue of Lloyds not sending the statements to G, and the bank was 
ordered to provide them. So the subject matter of this complaint has been considered by a 
court. G has asked our service to assess whether compensation  is due as a distinct matter  
but the resolution is part of the overall subject matter of a dispute. I appreciate that the 
courts didnt  award any other losses, but a judge  has looked at the matter  and issued an 
order outlining the resolution to Gs claim. So our service looking into it again, and potentially  
deciding a different  outcome, would not be appropriate given the courts are a higher 
authority. Therefore Im dismissing  this aspect of Gs complaint, without consideration of the 
merits.  
funds spent by the former directors 
G has alleged that funds in its account were stolen by the former  directors,  when they made 
a series of transfers  following a HMRC rebate. The question of whether  the former directors 
committed a crime is one for the police  our service  can only consider whether Lloyds acted 
unfairly in the circumstances.  That largely comes down to what the bank knew,  and when.
G cant confirm exactly  when it contacted Lloyds, but theres  a reference to earlier calls 
being made in the complaint submitted  by G on 17 June  2018. Some of the payments in 
question (to a transport  company) had been made by then, and the last transfer (to Gs 
accountant) went out the next day. Lloyds contact notes show a block being put on the 
account on 20 June  2018 (too late), but doesnt  have a record of any calls being  made  
before that. 
Ive seen an email in May 2018 from Mr S to Gs accountant asking how to change the 
mandate. And given the new directors took over G in April 2018,  its plausible theyd have 
contacted the bank  regarding the account  around the time theyve said they did. Lloyds also 
appear to have only been prepared to deal with the signatories (the former directors) during 
this period. So if the bank had been contacted by other  unauthorised  parties  its possible 
that notes about  that contact wouldnt have been  recorded against this account. 
Whilst its difficult to determine exactly when Gs new directors  first contacted Lloyds, taking 
account of the above I consider it was likely that G had tried to speak  to Lloyds before 
resorting to logging  a complaint online.  So, on balance, I find that Lloyds were likely on 
notice of a potential dispute  and ought  to have  acted quicker  to put an account block in 
place. Ive also seen  that Lloyds allowed the account to be unblocked and closed by a 
former director   without any involvement  from the new directors,  when it knew  about the 
dispute. Since I consider Lloyds made mistakes in its dealings  with G over the account, Ive 
gone on to consider whether those  resulted  in a loss to G.  
Ive reviewed the payments that G says were stolen, and can see they were transfers made 
to two businesses.  But I havent been able to find a link between  the former directors and the 
Ref: DRN69096763businesses the payments  were made  to. One of them was Gs accountant, which  G had paid 
before from the account. The new directors had also corresponded with the accountant prior 
to the transfers,  which suggests there  was an established relationship. I havent been 
provided with any other evidence corroborating  the allegation of theft,  or Lloyds complicity in 
it. So Im not persuaded those payments werent  made in the course  of Gs business 
activities, for invoices it owed for instance, or that they constitute a loss to G.
 
Theres no doubt that Lloyds mistakes would have personally caused  the new directors  
frustration and worry. Im also sure that some of the directors own time was wasted trying to 
sort matters out. But the banks customer in the context of this complaint was G, rather  than 
the individuals that run it. A company cant experience distress,  so our service could only 
make an award for any material inconvenience caused to G as an entity.  
Separate to the issues with Lloyds, this was a turbulent time for G  and its ability  to perform 
its usual business  activities  had been severely  impacted as a result. But I havent  seen 
anything to support  that Lloyds mistakes resulted in any discernible additional disruption to 
Gs operations. Nor have  I seen any evidence that the company incurred other losses  as a 
result of the banks failure to put a block in sooner, or the closure of the account. So I make 
no award to G in the circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dismiss Gs complaint that Lloyds Bank  PLC delayed sending  bank 
statements, as that matter has already been  considered by a court,  and I dont uphold Gs 
complaint about  the bank allowing funds to be stolen  from the account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2021.
Ryan Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6909676