K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy because Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) has paid only part of 
their claim for a cancelled  holiday  under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle  claims. 
Background
Mr and Mrs W bought an insurance policy provided by IPA online. They  paid £116.06 for the
policy, which included cover for Mrs Ws asthma and COPD.
Shortly before they were  due to travel  on holiday, Mrs W unfortunately fell ill. They  registered
a claim for the cost of cancelling their holiday  under their insurance policy with IPA. Mr and
Mrs Ws claim form included a medical  certificate  from Mrs Ws GP which  said the claim
arose from reactive stress/anxiety. The medical certificate said Mrs W had the following
medical conditions  in the previous 5 years;
Osteoarthritis knee
Hiatus hernia
COPD
Mr and Mrs W say IPA initially told them over the phone  that it wouldnt pay the claim
because of Mrs Ws knee problems. IPA subsequently said the claim wasnt covered
because the policy terms required  claims relating  to stress or anxiety to be supported by a
medical certificate from a registered mental health professional or a consultant specialising
in the relevant field.
Mr and Mrs W complained to IPA. They provided a letter from Mrs Ws GP dated December
2018 explaining why the holiday had been  cancelled and why Mrs W had not been referred
to a psychiatrist.
IPA considered this information and paid 57.5% of Mr and Mrs Ws claim. IPA said this was
because Mrs W didnt declare all the medical conditions  she should have, so Mr and Mrs W
had only paid 57.5%  of the correct premium  for the policy.
As Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to our service. They said
theyd declared  both of Mrs Ws respiratory  conditions but didnt declare any other medical
conditions, as they didnt think they were required to in response to the questions  theyd
been asked. Mr and Mrs W also disputed the amount IPA said the premium  would  have
increased by in the event they had declared  other medical conditions.
Our investigator initially said she thought IPA should pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim in full, as she
didnt think the medical  screening questions Mr and Mrs W were  asked  when they bought
the policy meant they should have disclosed any other medical conditions.
IPA responded  with screenshots showing different  questions which  it says was asked when
the policy was bought  through  an aggregator website, which  Ill call MS. However,  Mr and
Mrs W provided evidence from MS saying they hadnt bought  the insurance policy via its
website.
IPA then provided evidence to show  Mr and Mrs Ws policy  had been bought through a
Ref: DRN60008202different aggregator  website, which  Ill call MTC. IPA also provided evidence  to show the
sales process Mr and Mrs W followed when buying the policy,  the questions  they were
asked and the answers they gave.
After reviewing this information, our investigator  said she thought IPAs payment  of 57.5% of
the claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree,  so the complaint was passed to me. I made my provisional 
decision about Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in January 2020. In it, I said;
IPA says Mr and Mrs W incorrectly answered medical questions which they were asked
when they bought their policy. This means the principles  set out in the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosures and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and
reasonable to apply  these  principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate  remedy  if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying  misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered  when deciding  whether a
consumer has taken  reasonable  care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were.
Im aware there was previously some confusion  surrounding how this policy  was sold.
However, Im satisfied with the evidence IPA has now provided  showing the policy was sold
through MTC.
Mr and Mrs W were asked several  questions when taking out their policy  in September
2018. These included the following;
Within the last 2 years,  have you or anyone  to be named on the policy:
been prescribed medication, or received  treatment  or attended a medical
practitioners surgery?
attended a hospital or clinic  as an out-patient or in-patient?
and;
Have you, or anyone  to be named  on the policy
been currently put on a waiting list for treatment or investigation?
IPA says, in response  to these questions, Mr and Mrs W should have told it that Mrs W had
osteoarthritis and hiatus hernia in addition to COPD and asthma.
In deciding whether  I think Mr and Mrs W took reasonable care in answering these
questions, Ive reviewed  Mrs Ws medical records and Ive also considered what she has told
us about her medical history.
The claim form completed by Mrs Ws GP says she suffered  from osteoarthritis  knee in
Ref: DRN600082032017 and under treatment the GP has written await  replacement.  I think  Mr and Mrs W
should have told IPA about  this in response  to the questions there  were  asked.
However, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think  Mr and Mrs W failed to take
reasonable care when  they didnt tell IPA about Mrs Ws hiatus hernia.
The GP said Mrs W suffered from hiatus hernia and was prescribed medication for this
condition in 2016. But the GP has given no further dates, so I cant  be satisfied that this
occurred in the two years prior to September 2018. I understand the GP has described  the
condition as ongoing (years) but I dont  think its fair for IPA to assume  from the very limited
information given  that this means Mrs W was still on medication for the condition  when she
bought the policy. Mr and Mrs W said Mrs Ws hernia was dormant and caused no day-today
issues. They  said Mrs W takes no medication  for the condition  and has not seen her GP
about the matter  in over two years.
So, based  on the information  available, I dont think Mr and Mrs W should have answered
the questions  asked in a different way regarding Mrs Ws hiatus hernia.
In summary  therefore, I think  Mr and Mrs W did make a qualifying  misrepresentation under
CIDRA  but only in relation to osteoarthritis.
As Mr and Mrs W made a qualifying misrepresentation,  IPA is entitled to apply the relevant
remedy available to it under CIDRA.
CIDRA says,  in cases of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer  would still have entered
into the contract but would have charged  a higher premium, then the insurer is entitled to
reduce proportionately  the amount to be paid on the claim.
Mr and Mrs W paid £116.06 for their insurance policy.  IPA originally provided us with
evidence to show that if Mrs W had also declared osteoarthritis and hiatus hernia, a premium
of £201.81 would have been charged, meaning Mr and Mrs W only paid 57.5% of the
premium they should have.
I told IPA I didnt think it was entitled to take hiatus hernia into account  when calculating what
additional premium  it would have charged Mr and Mrs W, and that it was instead only
entitled to calculate the premium it would have charged based on an additional condition of
osteoarthritis. IPA has now provided evidence to show the premium it would have charged is
£126.18.
This means  Mr and Mrs W have paid 91.97% of the premium they should have so, in line
with the remedy  set out under CIDRA, IPA should  pay 91.97% of their claim.
Turning to the way Mr and Mrs Ws claim was handled, IPA originally  declined  the claim
because it wasnt supported by the specific evidence  which  is required under the policy
terms and conditions. Im pleased to see IPA reconsidered  its stance  when provided  with
further evidence  from Mrs Ws GP.
I understand Mr and Mrs W engaged  a solicitor to complain to IPA on their behalf.  They
were, of course, entitled to do this but it isnt necessary to appoint  a professional
representative to complain to a financial  business and Mr and Mrs W could have  pursued
their complaint themselves. As an informal alternative to the courts,  the Financial
Ombudsman Service doesnt generally  make  awards for legal  costs  and I dont intend to
Ref: DRN60008204make such  an award in this case.
So, my provisional decision was that IPA should  pay 91.97%  of Mr and Mrs Ws claim,  
together with interest. 
Mr and Mrs W accepted my provisional  decision.  IPA didnt respond. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs W nor IPA have provided any further submissions, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  in part. 
I direct  Inter Partner Assistance SA to do the following;
pay 91.97% of Mr and Mrs Ws claim;
add interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of the claim until the date 
settlement is paid1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If Inter Partner Assistance  SA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest  it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much it has taken off. If should also give 
Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6000820