K821x#15complaint
Miss N complains that esure Insurance Limited  didnt pay her enough for her stolen car 
when she made a claim on her motor  insurance policy.
background
esure offered Miss N £9,593 for her car. It based the offer on a review  of three national trade 
guides. It discounted one - as it thought the valuation it gave was out of line with the other 
two  and took an average of the other  two valuations. Miss N didnt think  esure had taken 
into account all the optional extras on her car. She said she couldnt  find a car similar to hers 
for the sum esure had offered. esure  said its offer represented the cars market  value.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ns complaint.  He noted that under the policy,  
esure was only required  to pay Miss N the market value for her car. He said that was the 
sum she could reasonably  have expected to sell it for immediately before its loss. He noted 
that Miss Ns car had various  optional extras, but he pointed out that they dont necessarily 
increase a cars market value. The investigator  thought esure had acted reasonably  by 
offering Miss N the sum it did. 
Miss N said the investigator  hadnt  taken into account the trade guide valuation that esure 
had disregarded.  The investigator wasnt able to get a valuation  from that guide  when he 
checked the other two guides.  But he got a valuation from a fourth guide. Initially, he said as 
that valuation  was also out of line with the other two guides, hed discounted it. Later  on, the 
investigator decided  he should have taken  into account all four valuations. The higher two 
were £10,994 and £10,290. He asked esure for comments from its engineer. Esure  replied  
to say that Miss N had only paid £9,298 when she bought the car in April 2018. 
The investigator said the price Miss N paid for her car had no bearing on its pre-incident 
market value. He said esure should pay Miss N the average of all four trade guide 
valuations, which was £10,092.25. esure said that would amount to betterment. And it said 
the mileage it based the valuation on was recorded six months prior to the theft. The 
investigator said Miss Ns financial interest  in the car was its market value at the time of loss. 
But esure said the evidence of the sum the car was bought for was more accurate than any 
guide. It said it was required to put Miss N in the position she was in before the loss of her 
car, so to pay her more  than it was worth  would mean shed profit from the insurance  claim.
esure asked  for an ombudsmans  review of the complaint, so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think esure can rely on the price Miss N paid for her car to determine what  its market 
value is. Miss N told esure she paid less than she should have done  for several  reasons. 
They included the fact that the dealer made  an error in not noting one of the cars  important  
features and in not carrying out a full service, as had been agreed.  I think the dealer may 
also have wanted  a quick sale, so was willing to compromise on the price. 
Ref: DRN62680262esure also said Miss N benefitted  from it using  the cars mileage at its last service as the 
basis for its valuation. I think thats  right, but it was unavoidable, as the car wasnt recovered. 
And it isnt possible to say for sure what the level of benefit to Miss N was.   
The policy requires esure to pay no more than the cars market  value. We think  the best way 
to establish market value is by relying on the national  trade  guides.  I can see why esure 
discounted the valuation in one trade  guide, as it was out of line with the other  two guides it 
checked. But I think including  the valuation from the fourth trade guide makes  a difference.  
Theres a variation of around £1,400 between the four guides. One guides valuation is £700  
more than the lower  two, but the highest  valuation is £700 higher still. So in this case I dont 
think its unreasonable to take the average of all four valuations,  which  is £10,092. 25. I dont  
think that amounts  to betterment, as esure has suggested. Under the policy, Miss N is 
entitled to the cars market value immediately  before  its loss. I think that applies regardless 
of the sum she paid for it. So had Miss N paid too much for the car originally, esure would 
still only be required to pay her its market  value. 
I think paying Miss N the cars market value will put her back  in the position  she would have 
been in prior to the cars  loss. At that point,  she had a car that was worth  its full market 
value, not the sum shed paid for it. I think if Miss N gets the cars market  value, she will 
have profited from the good deal she got from the dealer, not from the insurance  claim.  
Taking into account all the facts  in this case, I think it would be fair and reasonable for esure 
to pay Miss N £10,092.25 as the market  value for her car.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay 
Miss N £10,092.25  for her car.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6268026