K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr B say Santander UK Plc (when  it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
From now on, Ill just refer to Santander in my decision as it is responsible  for dealing  with 
this complaint. 
background
In 2000, Mrs and Mr B took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy and it protected their mortgage  repayments  if they couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  Both Mrs and Mr B were covered under the 
policy. The cover was split 60:40  in favour of Mr B.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint. Mrs and Mr B didnt agree. So their 
complaint comes to me to decide.  They said their PPI policy continued after their mortgage 
ended in 2002. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs and Mr Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs and Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander doesnt have all of Mrs and Mr Bs paperwork from the time of sale, but thats not 
surprising, banks often  only keep records for six years.  Mrs and Mr B said they were told 
they had to take PPI to get the mortgage. I cant know what was discussed at the time.  But, I 
think it likely  Mrs and Mr B wouldve understood PPI was optional and decided to take it. I 
say this because  Ive seen a letter Mrs and Mr B sent the bank prior to PPI being taken out. 
This queries the monthly cost of the policy. It indicates that if PPI comes at a certain cost, 
they want to take it. This suggests to me, they knew they didnt have to have PPI.
 
Mrs and Mr B recall  that the policy was recommended  to them. They  might be right about  
that. Santander accepts that, although it cant say how the policy was sold to them.  What  
that means is that Santander had to consider  whether  the policy was suitable for Mrs and 
Mr B. It also had to give them information that was clear, fair and not misleading about  the 
PPI, so that they could make an informed choice  about whether the policy  was right for them 
and they wanted to buy it.
Ive thought about whether the policy was suitable for Mrs and Mr B. I think it was. I say this 
because Mr B said he didnt have any benefits through  work if he wasnt working and Mrs B 
said she had less than 3 months worth of sick pay through work. The policy  wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months per successful  claim,  including for unemployment. They  couldve 
made repeated claims on the policy giving them long term protection over their mortgage  
repayments. They both appeared  eligible for the policy and I havent seen anything  to show  
it was unaffordable.  It was a monthly paid premium, so it couldve been cancelled at any time 
without them losing  out financially.
Ref: DRN66446902Mrs B had a long term pre-existing medical  condition at the time of sale. But she said she 
hadnt taken time off work because of it and wasnt taking medication for it. So, I think it 
unlikely that she wouldve  thought shed  have to make a claim on the policy  because  of this 
condition. So, even  if this condition wasnt covered, I dont think this wouldve put her off 
taking out the policy.  And Mr B appeared not to be affected by any of the main  exclusions or 
limitations in the policy, so I dont think having  clearer information wouldve changed their 
decision about buying the policy.
Mrs and Mr B didnt  appear to have  any other  means to make their repayments from. They  
did mention having life cover. But, this didnt provide them  with duplicate protection. So, I still 
think the policy was suitable for them.
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold. However, I think Mrs and Mr B still wouldve decided  to buy the policy even if theyd  
been given clearer  information as it gave  them  useful protection. I think  it likely they were  
told the cost of the PPI before they took it out, as I can see that they queried this before they 
bought the policy. So, I think they wouldve understood what they had to pay for the cover 
and decided to buy it. I dont find that Mrs and Mr B have lost out as a result  of anything 
Santander did wrong. So, it follows that I dont  uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint.
Mrs and Mr B say that their policy  wasnt cancelled  at the same  time as their mortgage. But, 
Santander says this was a freestanding  policy  so it provided protection  after their mortgage 
ended. Santander also say that Mr B was able to make a successful claim on the policy in 
2007 which shows the cover continued. So, I cant see that they have lost out here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Kim Parsons 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6644690