K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms L complain  they were  mis-sold  an interest only mortgage by Pi Financial Ltd. 
Mr W has dealt  with this complaint throughout.
background
Mr W and Ms L took advice from Pi in 2007. Theyd  already got a repayment mortgage and 
wanted to change deal and borrow further money.  Pi says the additional money was 
required for home improvements, although Mr W and Ms L say it was to repay other 
borrowing.
Following Pis recommendation, Mr W and Ms L took a new interest only mortgage, 
increasing their borrowing  and fixing the interest  rate for five years.
Some years  later, Mr W and Ms L separated  and moved out of the property, and its been  
rented out since then.  More recently,  they decided to sell. Mr W says he discovered  that the 
property was now worth less than the current mortgage balance. He says theyd been 
advised to take an interest  only mortgage  and rely on increasing property prices to repay  it  
only to discover, ten years  later, that this wasnt a suitable repayment  strategy. Mr W and 
Ms L say Pi didnt  discuss  with them the risks of not repaying the capital during the mortgage  
term or the relative  costs of interest only and repayment mortgages. They said the 
recommendation Pi made was unsuitable and has now left them in a position of negative  
equity. If Pi had recommended a repayment mortgage, they wouldnt now owe more  than the 
house was worth.
Pi didnt  agree that the mortgage had been mis-sold. It said its adviser  had explained the 
different types  of mortgage and Mr W and Ms L had wanted interest  only. It said it was, or 
should have been, clear  to them from the start that the mortgage was on interest only and 
the balance wasnt  reducing. And it said the complaint was made out of time. Ive previously 
issued a decision in which I set out that I didnt think the complaint was out of time. In this 
decision, I will set out my findings on the merits of the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the mortgage was sold some time ago, theres still quite  a lot of evidence from the 
time available, including notes of meetings. 
The mortgage adviser has recorded  that Mr W and Ms L already had a mortgage with 
another lender, which was on repayment terms. They were coming to the end of a fixed  rate 
and wanted to re-mortgage, taking  further  borrowing.  They were concerned, though, that the 
mortgage wouldnt be affordable for them and wanted to explore converting to interest only.
The advisers hand-written notes from the time go on to say:
I explained  that they would need some method of repayment at the end of the term 
but they would be happy to address this in the future  and only wanted an interest 
only quotation. I fully discussed the advantages  and disadvantages of interest only 
but they felt happy that they could change back to repayment in the future. Their 
Ref: DRN66690552main objective is to get the home improvements carried  out and to keep the 
payments at an affordable level and they felt interest only was the only way they 
could afford  to do this.
Mr W disputes that this conversation took place. But he doesnt dispute that he and Ms L 
wanted an interest only mortgage  at the time. His complaint is that Pi didnt  give proper 
advice on a repayment strategy, and that the loan was arranged without a proper strategy 
being in place.
I accept that Mr W might  not recall  this conversation. But the mortgage  was sold 12 years 
ago. Human memory  is fallible so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr W couldnt remember 
conversations from that long ago. And its possible his memory of what happened   or lack 
of it  has also been influenced by his feelings now about what  he considers went  wrong 
with the sale.  That,  too, is typical of human memory.
Theres a contemporaneous note, which Ive quoted part of, in the advisers handwriting.  I 
think its more likely  that this conversation  did take place, along the lines set out in the note, 
than it is that it didnt, and the note is a fabrication. 
The mortgage report the adviser  gave Mr W and Ms L says that they were  given 
information about the different sorts of mortgages so they could make up their own minds. 
That suggests they werent  given advice  even though the mortgage offer records that this 
was an advised  sale. Theres no record of the advice they were given that Ive seen  the 
passage Ive quoted above  seems to me to be more about identifying their requirements 
than giving advice.
However, it seems to me that Pi did arrange  the mortgage that Mr W and Ms L wanted  at the 
time. They were concerned their existing mortgage wouldnt be affordable  when the interest 
rate changed, and especially so if they borrowed more money,  as they wanted to do. I think  
its clear theyd made up their minds  about  the sort of mortgage they wanted and spoke to Pi 
so it could select the specific lender and arrange  it for them.
There isnt much detail recorded  about  how the mortgage would be repaid. Theres  a 
suggestion it could  be converted  back to repayment in the future, though  theres no real 
exploration of the plausibility of that. Mr W says in fact sale of the property was discussed, 
with the expectation they could rely on rising house prices. Sale of the property was an 
acceptable repayment strategy  at the time  it wouldnt generally  be now, but lending  
standards were  less strict then.
Based on what Mr W and Ms L wanted  at the time, Im not persuaded this was an unsuitable 
mortgage. It achieved  what they wanted, in allowing them access to further borrowing at 
lower cost. And even  if the broker should have  had a more detailed  discussion with them 
about their eventual repayment  strategy,  and even if they had been advised not to switch  to 
interest only, Im not persuaded  they would have taken that advice since they didnt think 
they could afford to do so. I think its more likely they would have insisted on going ahead.  
That means that I think its likely Mr W and Ms L would always  have ended  up with an 
interest only mortgage even if different advice had been given, and so I dont  think  Pi has 
caused them  any loss. I dont therefore think it would be fair to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN66690553Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6669055