K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs S. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004  by phone. Barclays  sold 
Mrs S the policy at some point after the card had been set up.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs S and her representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why.
Mrs S has said she cannot remember ever being  told about  the PPI. However,  without 
supporting evidence that the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent, it wouldnt 
be fair for me to say Barclays  acted  wrongly in this way. And this did all happen about 
14 years  ago, and I wouldnt necessarily expect someone to remember the detail of what  
happened so long ago. However, from what we know of Barclays  processes  at the time, I 
think its likely the PPI would have been set out as a choice  for Mrs S to decide upon. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs S, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  based  on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could  have helped  pay the credit 
card bill for a period  longer than Mrs Ss full employer sick pay; and it seems she didnt have  
savings to fall back on. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or 
redundancy pay, so leaving Mrs S more financially secure for longer. So, overall, the PPI 
was potentially useful.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant  see any other 
reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Barclays gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been.  But I dont think, 
in her circumstances,  full information about  costs and benefits would have affected whether 
she took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like shed have  been affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell 
Mrs S, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN64843562To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6484356