K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
Miss F says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out sometime  between August 1995 
and January 2000. The policy cost no more than 79p per £100 of the outstanding card 
balance and covered Miss F in the event she wasnt working due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. Following  a successful claim, it would repay 10% of the outstanding balance 
at the point of claim, for up to twelve months. The policy was cancelled  in March 2008  when 
the credit  card account was closed.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The PPI was sold more than 20 years ago when Miss F took out a credit card. Given  the 
amount of time that has passed  since it was sold, its understandable  that Lloyds can no 
longer provide documents now from the time of the sale.  I appreciate  what  Miss F says,  
but without more evidence, I cant say its more  likely  that Lloyds  didnt make  it clear that 
she didnt have to take out PPI or that Miss F didnt  choose to take it out.
Ive seen a sample  of the type of application  form used by Lloyds  at this time and taking 
this into account  together  with what I know about Lloyds sales  processes at the time, 
Im satisfied that the policy  wouldve  been presented as optional. And as the PPI 
wouldve appeared on her monthly  credit card statements, had it been added  to Miss Fs 
account without  either  her knowledge or her consent, I wouldve expected  her to query 
this at some  point in the first few months after the account was opened.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Miss Fs complaint) it is more 
likely than not Lloyds  presented the policy to Miss F as compulsory or that it didnt tell 
her about  the policy at all, or indicated  that it would assist her overall  credit  card 
application.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss F so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   she 
told us she was employed  and in good health  when she took the policy  out. Miss F told 
us she had some  sick pay in the event that she was off work due to sickness or an 
accident, but this policy would have  paid out for 12 months and at a level over and 
above that provided  by her employer.
Ref: DRN63185902Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. And if she no longer wanted it or decided  she 
could no longer afford  it, she couldve cancelled the policy  without penalty.
Miss F told us that sometime after she took out the policy she became self-employed  so the 
policy wasnt suitable for her. I have to tell Miss F that unless she told Lloyds of her plans  to 
become self-employed when she was sold the policy, it wouldve been her responsibility to 
decide whether  the PPI was still right for her when she changed her employment some-time  
later. I have, however, looked at the policies in place at this time and I can re-assure Miss F 
that she wouldnt have  been affected  by policy exclusions when she was self-employed  it 
wouldve been no more  difficult  for her to make a successful claim than an employed person. 
And at this time she would have had an increased  need for the cover as she would no longer 
have had the benefit of sick pay from her employer.
Ive taken into account all of Miss Fs other  comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6318590