K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited cancelled her motor insurance 
policy in error. 
background
In October  2017, a third party driver alleged that Miss D damaged  her car whilst driving. 
Miss D firmly disputed  that and reported  the matter to Hastings. In November 2017,  Miss D 
renewed her motor insurance policy with Hastings. 
In December 2017, Hastings wrote to Miss D and e-mailed her about the cancellation of her 
policy. Miss D contacted Hastings about that. In January 2018,  Hastings  told her that it had 
made an administrative error and that the policy was in force and due for renewal  in 
November 2018.
In July 2018, Hastings wrote  to Miss D again  and told her that she was no longer insured. 
Miss D contacted Hastings. Hastings  said that it had cancelled  Miss Ds policy  in error. It 
paid Miss D compensation  of £150  and reinstated Miss Ds policy.
In August  2018,  Hastings wrote to Miss D again  about cancellation  of her policy.  Miss D 
contacted Hastings and it told her that it had made the same  administrative error again. 
Hastings paid Miss D compensation of £75.
Miss D says that she was extremely  distressed, as she had been driving her car before she 
received the first indication that Hastings  had cancelled her policy. She says she has spent 
many hours on the phone with Hastings each time this happened. Miss D says that this 
matter caused  her stress,  lost work hours  and taxi costs. She wants compensation that 
reflects all that and the lack of service.  
Our investigator thought that the compensation of £225 Hastings had already paid was fair. 
He said that the reason behind the cancellations  was the handling  of a third partys  claim 
against Miss Ds policy. The investigator  said that Miss D hadnt  been able to provide any 
information about expenses shed incurred.  He also said that emergency cover had been  in 
place up to the reinstatement of Miss Ds policy.
Miss D didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Hastings had provided him with more 
information and explanation than it had given to her. That meant that she spent many  hours  
contacting Hastings. Miss D said that she didnt know that emergency  cover was in place.  
She said that the matter had caused her considerable anxiety.  Miss D reiterated that she 
spent hours  dealing with Hastings. She says that she didnt  get a years worth of cover,  
which is what she paid for. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN65288642Its common ground that Hastings made a number of errors here. Im conscious  that Ive 
condensed what  I dont doubt was a very worrying  time for Miss D into a short narrative. 
That reflects  our service  that, wherever possible,  aims to be informal.  But Im satisfied  that 
Ive captured the essence of what happened. 
Our investigator identified  correctly that the root cause of the difficulties Miss D faced was 
Hastings handling  of a third partys  claim against  Miss Ds policy.  Based on what  Ive seen, 
it doesnt appear that Hastings actually cancelled Miss Ds policy in December 2017. But 
Miss D didnt know that. 
On the first occasion,  I dont think that Hastings  put matters right particularly quickly. Its 
notes show that in late December 2017, Miss D queried the letter shed  received  and it 
wasnt until mid January  2018 that Hastings  told her that her policy was in force. That was no 
doubt worrying for Miss D.
On the second  occasion,  Hastings notes show that it told Miss D that it would ask the 
underwriter to reinstate  the policy and that the underwriter had said that it would indemnify 
Miss D in the meantime.  That means the underwriter  would deal with any claim arising. 
Miss Ds policy  was reinstated a few days later. After Miss D thought that this matter had 
been resolved,  it happened again. 
It remains for me to consider the appropriate level of compensation. Under  our rules, Im 
required to determine  cases by reference to what I consider fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances  of each complaint. We can award compensation for loss, distress  
and inconvenience   to aim to put Miss D in the position she would otherwise have been in 
but for Hastings errors. 
Ive considered this matter carefully.  Miss D hasnt provided any evidence to support her 
claim for financial  loss. When we look at distress  and inconvenience, we dont proceed 
based on an hourly rate for the time spent dealing with the issues. We look at the effect the 
errors had on the individual. 
This matter was no doubt worrying and inconvenient  for Miss D. She sought clarification 
from Hastings and was left in an uncertain  position on some  occasions. But Miss D would 
have been either covered under her policy or indemnified in relation to any claim that arose.  I 
appreciate that wasnt always  clear  to Miss D and its fortunate  that no claim or further  
adverse incident  arose. 
Considering everything, I agree with the investigator  that the sums Hastings has already 
paid are fair. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of 
the distress and inconvenience  Miss D suffered. Im sorry to disappoint Miss D but theres  no 
basis on which to direct Hastings to pay Miss D more. 
Ref: DRN65288643my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6528864