K820x#14complaint
Mrs O has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), when trading as TSB, mis-sold her 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card. She believes it should  
refund her all the premiums she paid for it, plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Os complaint. The adjudicator  didnt 
think that Lloyds  had mis-sold the policy, but Mrs O disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman 
to review her case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mrs Os case. Ive looked into everything  that Lloyds and Mrs O have told us or 
sent us about  the complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain why below.
Mrs O has told us that she applied for the credit card and took the policy  in 1996  during a 
meeting at one of Lloyds branches. Shes  said that she went  to the meeting mainly  to open 
a current account,  that she applied for the credit card to provide extra  (spending)  money  if 
she needed it, and took PPI at the same  time.  Lloyds doesnt have many records going back  
to 1996 and has told us that it cant t tell exactly when Mrs O bought  the PPI policy. Over two 
decades have passed since 1996  and Im m not surprised that Lloyds no longer has any 
detailed records from that time, but I have no reason to doubt  what  Mrs O has told us about 
this.
 
Mrs O has also said that during the meeting  Lloyds  led her to understand that saying  yes to 
taking PPI would put her in the best position  of being accepted for a credit card and that 
taking PPI would enable her to get the card. 
Obviously, I wasnt at the meeting and I dont know for sure what Lloyds said to Mrs O. But 
Ive looked at the type of credit card application  forms which Lloyds has told us it used at 
around the time Mrs O applied for her card. These  forms seem to have presented PPI as 
optional. Customers had to show they wanted  PPI by ticking  boxes which  gave them a 
choice. 
Neither Mrs O nor Lloyds have a copy of her own application form, which again I dont find 
surprising given how much time has passed,  but I think its very likely that Mrs O filled out 
one of these forms  and chose to take PPI. I dont  think that Lloyds told her she had to have it 
in order to get the credit card. 
Lloyds has also told us that during the meeting it recommended PPI to Mrs O and advised  
her to buy it. This meant that Lloyds  had to check that the policy  was right for Mrs O and tell 
her about  it fairly and clearly so she could decide if he wanted it. So Ive looked into Mrs Os 
circumstances when  she applied for the card to see if it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
recommend the policy to her. 
From what  Mrs O has told us, she met the policys  s eligibility rules and she seems to have 
been able to afford to pay the premiums.  And I havent t seen anything to make me think  that 
Ref: DRN60517282she would  have been caught out by any of the policys main limitations or exclusions if she 
had needed to make a claim. 
Mrs O has told us that if she was off work ill, she would  have  received  sick pay for quite a 
lengthy period.  But the PPI would have paid out over and above Mrs Os sick pay and would 
have lasted for longer. It would also have paid out if she was made redundant. Mrs O 
doesnt seem to have  had many other  significant resources to help her with her credit  card 
repayments, so I think  she had a potential need  for PPI and it was reasonable for Lloyds  to 
recommend the policy to her. 
I accept that Lloyds may not have explained everything about  PPI to Mrs O as clearly  as it 
should have done. But, Im satisfied  that she was eligible  for the policy,  that Lloyds gave her 
a choice, that it was reasonable  for Lloyds to recommend it to her and that she could afford  
it. So I dont think that clearer information  about  the policy would have stopped  Mrs O from 
buying it. 
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold PPI to Mrs O. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, Im not upholding  Mrs Os  complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. Im not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6051728