K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Miss W says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I cant know what was discussed with Miss W at the meeting at the bank. Miss W 
says she wasnt told about PPI and it was mis-sold to her. Halifax has sent in a copy 
of Miss Ws credit  card application  form.   On it, theres a section about PPI. To take 
out PPI, the customer  had to select the box saying they wanted it. The box couldve 
been left blank if they didnt want PPI. There is a cross in the box on Miss Ws 
application selecting PPI. The box to select card protection was left blank. So, I think  
it likely  that Miss W wouldve understood these  were optional products and she didnt 
have to take them. I think it more likely she opted  to take PPI, completing the 
paperwork and signing the form to say she wanted it. I can understand why she may 
not remember that now, given how much time has passed. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss W so it had to check that it was right for her. 
Miss W said she wouldve got benefits  through work and that her family and friends 
couldve helped. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think  
PPI was still suitable for her needs. Miss W couldnt  remember how long she 
wouldve been paid through  her work if off sick. The policy wouldve paid out on top 
of Miss Ws work benefits, allowing  her to use these to meet  her other  household 
expenses. It wouldve paid out until Miss W returned  to work, or her balance was paid 
off, whichever was the sooner. It wouldve paid out for possibly longer than her work  
benefits wouldve  covered her for. I accept that Miss Ws friends and family may have 
wanted to help out, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time 
comes. So, I havent placed any reliance on that. She was eligible to take out the 
policy and it appeared affordable. I cant see that she was affected by any of the 
main exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. So, I think she couldve  benefitted  from 
everything the policy offered.
Miss W says the information she was given about PPI wasnt clear. Its possible the 
information Halifax gave  Miss W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  
like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss Ws said but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN64759432my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6475943