K822xComplaint
Mr M has complained about the loans he took out through Elevate Credit International 
Limited trading  as Sunny.  He says Sunny lent to him irresponsibly and didnt undertake 
affordability checks.
Background 
Mr M took out two loans  with Sunny on 12 May 2014 and 7 February 2015. 
Loan 1 was a running  credit facility (RCF) with a limit of £500. This facility  worked  by setting  
a credit limit from which funds could be withdrawn  up to the agreed credit limit. Each 
withdrawal could be repaid in five monthly instalments. There  wasnt  a limit on how long the 
facility could run for. If Mr M withdrew the full £500  and repaid it over five months then his 
largest contractual repayment would be £179.01.  
Loan 2 was for £300 which was to be repaid  over six monthly  instalments. Mr Ms largest 
monthly contractual repayment was £92.40. This loan was given while  Mr M was still 
repaying the RCF. 
Sunnys initial  response stated that it hadnt  made  an error by providing  Mr M with either  of 
his loans. Mr M wasnt happy with this response  and asked his representative  to refer his 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ms complaint and thought Sunny had treated him fairly 
when it provided  Mr M with the RCF. The adjudicator also reviewed how the facility  was 
used, and she believed  that Mr Ms borrowing on the RCF suggested he may have become 
reliant on this facility and was struggling  to make  the repayments sustainably.  
While the RCF was still running,  Mr M was provided  with an instalment loan. The adjudicator  
didnt think given the way Mr M had used the RCF,  that this loan shouldve  been provided. 
Sunny agreed  with the adjudicators findings  and made an offer based on her 
recommendations. But Mr M appears to have agreed with the outcome but was unhappy 
with the refund Sunny was offering because he said he had repaid the outstanding  balance 
on the RCF.  Whereas, Sunny says there  is still an outstanding balance on the RCF.
As no agreement has been reached the case has now been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr M and Sunny appear  to have both agreed with the adjudicators findings so I dont see a 
reason to make a finding in my decision about whether the loans should have been lent. 
However, Mr M does dispute  the offer that Sunny has made  and it is this that Ive focused  
on in my decision. 
Ref: DRN61798872Mr M says he has repaid both of his loans with Sunny. Based on the account information  
Sunny has provided,  it appears loan 2 was repaid  on 17 June 2015. As loan 2 is not in 
dispute by either party  I will focus  on the outstanding  balance on the RCF.
Sunny has provided  an up to date statement of account which  shows that after Mr Ms last 
withdrawal of £72.29  on 24 December 2014, plus interest a few days later of £12, at that 
point his outstanding balance was £512.  Further interest was added  in January 2015 and 
Mr M made a payment of £184.51.  Then  he didnt make any further  repayments  towards  his 
RCF between February and May 2015.  As a result, interest continued to be added and his 
balance increased.  As of 26 May 2015 Mr Ms balance totalled £766.07. 
Sunnys statement of account also shows Mr Ms last payment towards  his RCF was on 
17 June 2015.  This was a payment of £80 and reduced his balance  to £686.07. There  isnt 
anything else from what Ive seen  to suggest  any further payments were made by Mr M 
towards the RCF. 
I note that when Mr Ms representative  told us Mr M had repaid the RCF, we asked for 
evidence that the facility  had been  repaid. However, to date we havent received any further  
information or evidence from either Mr M or his representative. 
I think Mr M has had a reasonable  amount  of time to provide any additional information for 
consideration and I have  now based  my decision on the information I have. Therefore, based 
on the evidence  provided, Im satisfied that Mr M does  have an outstanding balance  on his 
RCF.
As part of Sunnys response to our adjudicators view, it provided a breakdown  of what  Mr M 
had paid in interest  for loan 2 - £192.  Sunny has added 8% simple interest to this, minus  tax. 
This leaves  Mr M with a total redress amount of £248.32 (at the time the calculation was 
made). As Mr M doesnt  appear  to have disputed this redress amount, Ive not considered 
this calculation any further. But I have considered the redress amount as part of Sunnys 
overall offer.
Sunny hasnt made any reference as to whether  any adverse information was reported  about 
loan 2 on Mr Ms credit file. As Sunny shouldnt have given Mr M loan 2, its not right that he 
should have it affect his credit file in a negative way. So I think  its fair that Sunny  should
now remove any adverse  information it has reported  about loan 2. Having said that, as loan 
2 was repaid early  it is unlikely any adverse information was reported  about loan 2.
Sunny has explained that as Mr M still had an outstanding  debt of £686.07 they would be 
using the total redress  amount from loan 2 to reduce the debt. This would leave him with a 
balance of around £437.75 to pay (at the time the calculation was carried  out). 
In this instance, I dont  think  it is unreasonable for Sunny to off set the redress amount  
against Mr Ms outstanding loan balance.  I say this as it will the help reduce Mr Ms debt 
resulting in him repaying less overall. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
Sunny to do anything  different with the redress amount calculated.  
Sunny should  now action  the offer it has made and use the redress amount from loan 2 to 
reduce Mr Ms debt on the RCF as well as any credit  file adjustment to the second loan. 
Overall, Im satisfied that what  Sunny has already agreed to do is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. So Im not requiring Sunny to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN61798873My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that the offer made by Elevate  Credit  
International Limited to put things  right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.  So other than the credit file amendment I make  no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6179887