K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way their home insurance claim for accidental damage  
to patio doors was dealt  with by U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
Mr and Mrs M made a claim to UKI in October  2017 after their patio doors  were  damaged  
following a piece of furniture being backed into them. UKI accepted the claim and a 
contractor was sent out to repair one glass panel.  In May 2018 after they started to use the 
door again they noticed that a crack  had developed  in the other panel. Mr and Mrs M thought 
this was probably either a result of the original damage or of the subsequent repair.  Theyd  
noticed that during the original work  the contractor had struggled  to remove the panel  and 
thought this had probably  bent the frame.
UKI sent out the contractors again.  They indicated that the damage to the glass wasnt  
caused by the repair  and that the frame wasnt bent. They also said this was a separate  
event and unrelated to the original claim. UKI advised that Mr and Mrs M could make a new 
claim if they wanted to. They thought this was unfair.
Mr and Mrs M then noticed a small defect in the glass panel that had been repaired. They 
also said the gasket  around the frame had been fitted incorrectly.  UKI sent out its contractors 
who replaced the glass under the warranty. Mr and Mrs M paid the contractors privately to 
replace the broken panel with the defective  glass. The contractors  said the gasket was 
probably damaged  due to wear and tear but was replaced on a goodwill basis. UKI agreed 
also to pay Mr and Mrs M £50 for the inconvenience, but said the damage  to the other  panel  
would have to be the subject of a new claim..
After Mr and Mrs M complained to this service they noticed another small defect in the newly 
replaced glass. UKI sent out the contractors again  who replaced the glass  again.  I 
understand that the new glass is satisfactory.
Our investigator thought that UKI had acted  reasonably. She pointed out that according to 
the expert evidence from UKI the damage to the other panel wasnt a result of the original 
claim, nor of the repair.  Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and told us theyd consulted an expert  
glazier themselves  who had said that the crack  could have developed some  time after the 
original claim  but as a result of that impact..  They also said they were unhappy with the way 
the repair had been dealt  with at first as no dust sheets were  put down on the oak floor. They  
didnt think the compensation paid was sufficient.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that our process for investigating complaints consists  of reviewing 
documentary evidence  and any evidence sent or reported to us by both sides. We dont 
commission experts to report.  As a part of investigating the complaint we review the 
evidence sent in by both sides  and if the complaint concerns a technical  issue  we will look at 
any expert evidence  provided.
Ref: DRN66143542Here UKIs expert evidence is that of the glaziers sent out to repair the window. Their  
professional opinion was that:
Upon inspection,  the damaged unit is within a separate section of framework to the unit 
replaced under a previous  claim. Therefore, in our professional opinion,  the damaged unit is 
not related to the previous claim, or the works  completed as a result  of it.
They couldnt say what had caused the damage. But as a result  of that UKI said that any 
claim relating to the panel would have  to be made  separately.  I understand Mr and Mrs Ms 
reluctance to make  another claim, because of the likely effect on their premiums.
Mr and Mrs M have  told us they sought  advice from glaziers. And whilst I understand that 
they have put forward  opinions about  the possible cause of the damage,  there  is no written 
report from them from inspecting the damage. And whilst I appreciate that UKIs report  isnt 
entirely independent I have to consider from the evidence what  is most  likely to have 
happened. And the expert opinion in my view shows that the subsequent  damage,  noticed 
some seven months after the original repair wasnt related to the original claim, or to that 
repair. 
As regards  the subsequent replacement of the panels I understand that this caused some 
inconvenience and annoyance to Mr and Mrs M. I have  considered  that but also looked at 
the way UKI dealt  with the replacements.  The contractors said the condition  of the gasket 
was likely to be due to wear and tear but replaced  it, and the glass panel any way. When  
they reported that the replacement also had a similar defect in it UKI responded quickly  and 
the contractors arranged the repairs. Having  considered those repairs  and the way they 
were dealt with, I think that the payment of £50 was reasonable.
Lastly Mr and Mrs M were  upset  that the contractors didnt use dust sheets when they did 
the original repairs.  The floor was expensive wooden flooring. Again I appreciate their 
annoyance about this but they didnt  report that there was any damage to the floor to UKI. 
And they havent  told us that the floor was damaged. So I dont propose to take any further  
action in that respect.
Overall I think  that UKI dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms claim reasonably. I dont  think  that the 
evidence shows that the damage  to the other  panel  in their patio doors was related to the 
original claim  or to its repair. I also think UKI dealt with the subsequent replacements fairly 
and paid Mr and Mrs M reasonable  compensation. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6614354