K820x#14Complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC after she told it 
about her financial  difficulties.
Background
Miss J visited a Barclays branch in early 2019  to discuss her financial  situation as she had 
previously lost her job. Initially Miss J asked about  a loan - but this was declined.  So, Miss J 
was referred to an in-house coach to see how else Barclays  might be able to assist her. 
Miss J says the coach  only vaguely  explained  the procedures  she would need to go through.  
But she was told to complete an expenditure form and contact her creditors.  She says she 
was also led to believe that this wouldnt affect  her credit score. 
But having  contacted her main creditor  a credit  card provider which  is a subsidiary of 
Barclays, Miss J met with the coach again. But she says the coach didnt provide any help 
and was unprofessional. And when the coach called her credit card provider, the coach  
didnt act in her interests. 
Disappointed with this service, Miss J raised  a formal complaint with Barclays                              
Chief Executive Officer  (CEO). She says she felt misled, misrepresented and let down 
throughout the process. And that Barclays staff were inexperienced and it doesnt have a 
robust complaints  process in place. She asked for the CEO to look into her concerns and 
issue a personal  reply.  She said Barclays should  retrain its staff and asked for higher 
standards to be introduced. She also asked Barclays  to consider compensation for 
cancelling her overdraft  and pay her a substantial loyalty  bonus for being a long-standing 
account holder.  
Barclays Executive Office responded but it didnt uphold her complaint. It says Miss J wasnt  
receiving any income  or benefit payments when she first contacted  it. So the coach gave  the 
right information in the circumstances  and ultimately, she was advised to contact its 
Financial Assistance Team. 
Barclays did accept that Miss J had experienced some inconvenience when she had trouble 
accessing Barclays mobile app. And it offered her £50 compensation in recognition  of this. 
But Miss J is unhappy  as she didnt receive  a personal reply  from the CEO and that her 
request for the loyalty bonus was declined.  
As Miss J remained unhappy, she referred her complaint  to us and one of our investigators 
looked into it. But he didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Barclays  had done anything  
substantially wrong  in respect of Miss Js financial circumstances. And he felt the £50 
compensation offered was fair. 
Miss J didnt  agree. She asked for her complained to be looked  at by an ombudsman. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
Barclays has since written to Miss J to: update her on the status  of the account,  confirm 
access had been  restricted and  ultimately, to inform her that her account  had been  
terminated. Miss J says she found these letters to be of a threatening nature. Our 
investigator suggested that Miss J should contact  Barclays to discuss  the letters  or to seek 
the advice of a debt advice service. But he did asked Barclays  to suspend recovery action 
pending our final decision and Barclays agreed  to this pending a final decision on the 
complaint.
Ref: DRN69099222Miss J has complained about two separate entities of Barclays  Bank  UK PLC.  While the 
investigator dealt with her complaints as a whole, we have now reached  the formal  stage of 
our process. As such, the complaint has been  split to deal with the two business entities 
separately. But I assure Miss J that I have reviewed all the information on both cases.  For 
clarity, this decision relates  to Miss Js overdraft with Barclays  Bank UK Plc.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Miss J has strong feelings  about this complaint. Shes provided detailed  
submissions in support  of her view, which I can confirm Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Miss J will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in less detail,  as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
While I empathise  with Miss Js situation - I can appreciate that losing her job and struggling 
financially has been stressful  and overwhelming  for her. And from what Ive seen it seems 
that Miss J did try to manage for some time before seeking help from Barclays.  But having  
considered everything, Ive reached  the same  overall conclusion  as our investigator.  I know  
Miss J will be extremely  disappointed, so Ill explain why.
  
I think it would be helpful to explain that our role is to look impartially  at complaints and 
decide if the business complained about has done something wrong. If it has, we ask the 
business to put things  right. But we dont regulate businesses, so its not our role to tell a 
business how to train its staff or how to deal with complaints.
Where a customer is in financial difficulties, a lender is required to treat the situation 
positively and sympathetically. But the rules  dont say that there  are specific  remedies a 
business is obliged  to offer. The type of remedies we might expect a business to consider 
can include  (but is not limited to): suspending and/or refunding  interest and charges, 
agreeing to reduced payments, sign-posting to debt advise/other appropriate  agencies,  
offering a consolidation loan to reduce monthly  outgoings or a mix of these things. But which 
remedies the lender  ultimately offers is dependent on the individual circumstances of the 
customer. For example,  agreeing a consolidation  loan to reduce monthly outgoings might be 
appropriate when  the customer is still working  and is struggling to meet all their individual  
credit repayments.  
     
But here, when  Miss J contacted Barclays, she had not been working for some  time and 
wasnt in receipt of any benefit  payments.  She had been relying  on her savings and credit to 
meet her monthly commitments. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss J was 
expecting to receive a lump sum from  for example, the sale of a house. So while  I can 
understand that Miss J thought that a loan might help her, I wouldnt expect a lender to 
extend further credit to Miss J in these circumstances.  I dont think  she was in a position to 
maintain the monthly repayments. So, I dont  think Barclays did anything wrong when it 
declined a loan and referred  her to its in-house coach to see what  (if anything)  else it could 
do to assist. 
Ref: DRN69099223Given Miss J was not receiving an income  and her savings  had been depleted there  is a limit 
to what Barclays could  do to help her. But I note that during the meetings Miss J had with 
Barclays coach, she was encouraged to contact  her creditors and she was asked her to 
complete an expenditure breakdown. I also note she was told to find out about any benefit  
payments she may have  been entitled to and seek the help of a debt advice agency. I can 
see that Miss J says that when the coach  contacted  one of her creditors  on her behalf, she 
felt the coach didnt take her side. But overall,  I dont think Barclays  did anything wrong 
here. The coach  outlined the type of options  I would expect Barclays  to have explained to 
Miss J in her situation. An expenditure breakdown would allow  Barclays and any other 
creditors/debt advice agencies to assess Miss Js financial  situation accurately. And a debt 
advice agency  would  have been able to deal with Miss Js creditors  on her behalf and help 
her with any benefit payments she may have been  entitled to. 
Since the complaint has been  with us, Miss J has told us that Barclays has been sending  her 
threatening letters and text messages. So Ive looked at this correspondence. And I dont 
consider the content to be threatening. The text messages are alerting Miss J to the current 
status of her account  and asking her to contact Barclays  to discuss  the situation. And the 
letters are what I consider to be standard letters issued to account holders who have 
exceeded their overdraft limit. Again, the letters confirm  the status of account,  the 
consequences of not bringing  the account  back in order i.e. potential  for items to be returned 
unpaid, and they provide  a telephone number to call if help is required. Given  the status of 
Miss Js account, I dont think Barclays acted incorrectly in sending Miss J the 
correspondence it did. 
The later correspondence  confirms that Barclays had initially restricted  access  to her current 
account as her overdraft  exceeded the limit and subsequently it terminated her account. And 
Barclays was entitled to bring the overdraft to an end in Miss Js circumstances. But Miss J 
has received the benefit of the money  so I wouldnt  expect Barclays  to automatically write off 
the balance outstanding. So I would  urge Miss J to continue discussions with Barclays 
regarding the next steps. And as previously suggested, Miss J may benefit  from contacting  a 
debt advice agency to see how they may be able to help her. And while I appreciate  that 
Miss J has found these letters threatening, Barclays was required to let her know the action 
it was taking. So I dont  think it did anything wrong sending this correspondence to Miss J. 
I know Miss J is concerned that she was told by Barclays that there  wont be credit  score 
implications as things  can be settled in a positive  way. Ive thought about this and looked at 
the timeline of events  Miss J has provided. And it seems this conversation  happened  in her 
initial meetings  with Barclays  and before it fully assessed her individual  circumstances. So, 
while I dont dispute  that Barclays said this, I think its most likely  that Barclays  was talking 
generally. This is because  - dependent on the situation, not all credit files will be adversely 
affected just because someone is in financial difficulties.  For example  if providing a loan or 
refunding charges and interest  had been  appropriate remedies, this itself wouldnt have had 
a negative impact on a credit file. So, at the stage  this conversation  happened,  I dont think               
Miss J was mis-led on this point. 
I havent seen  Miss Js credit file. But Barclays is required  to record accurate data which  
reflects the account activity with the credit reference  agencies (CRA). So when Miss J was 
unable to bring her account back within its agreed  overdraft and Barclays  terminated her 
account, I dont  think  Barclays did anything wrong if this was reported to the CRA. So I wont  
be asking Barclays to remove any correctly  recorded information from Miss Js credit file. 
I can see that Miss J complained to Barclays CEO about both of her accounts held with the 
Barclays group. And that she is unhappy  that the CEO didnt personally respond to her. But I 
can see that Miss J did receive a response  to her concerns from the Executive Complaints 
Ref: DRN69099224Office. As mentioned  above,  its not for this service to interfere with how Barclays handles 
complaints or trains its staff. Barclays has an established complaint handling process - as 
most large  banks do. And Im satisfied in this case Barclays  followed its complaints process.  
As I understand it, Miss J has an expectation  that Barclays should pay her a loyalty  bonus as 
she has held accounts with it for many years. I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Barclays offer loyalty bonuses solely because an account has been open  for many years. So 
I dont think Barclays did anything wrong  when it turned down  Miss Js request.   
Buts Barclays has accepted it let Miss J down when  she tried to contact it through the  
mobile banking  app. There was an issue with the app which  caused  Miss J some 
inconvenience. Barclays has apologised and offered £50.00 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. I think this offer is fair. Miss J should contact Barclays  directly if she 
now wishes to accept  this offer.   
Overall, I dont  think Barclays has done anything substantially wrong which  would mean Id 
expect it to do anymore.  It gave her the type of advice  I would  expect it give someone in her 
financial situation. And it took action to prevent the debt from increasing. It has also 
recognised the inconvenience suffered when Miss J experienced  problems with the mobile 
banking app. So Im not going  to ask Barclays to do anything more  in relation to this 
complaint. But I would urge Miss J to contact Barclays  or any debt collection agency that 
the debt is transferred to, to discuss next steps.    
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6909922