K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
For the avoidance of doubt this decision only concerns Mr and Mrs As mis-sale  complaint 
about their PPI policy sold in 1998.  A separate  complaint has been set up to deal with their 
complaint about  a PPI policy sold a few years  later.
background
Briefly:
Mr and Mrs A took out PPI during a branch meeting  at the same time as taking out a 
mortgage. The policy was set up in Mr As sole name and it offered cover in the event Mr A 
was off work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy provided a monthly  
benefit of £400 a month plus an additional £100 and would do so for up to 24 months. And it 
cost around £33 a month.
At the time Mr A was employed and he says he was entitled to six months  sick pay and a 
redundancy package. He says he couldve accessed his workplace  pension  early if he 
couldnt work. And he says he was in good  health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale  complaint but thought Nationwides  offer in 
relation to high profit  share and commission was a fair way to settle  the complaint.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint  comes  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Nationwide likely made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs A didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out.
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs As mortgage application. I can see here 
the PPI details have been  printed on the application   that the policy was to be in Mr As 
sole name along with the benefit and the amount of additional cover.
Given the policy was arranged in Mr As sole name and there was an additional amount 
of cover included, I think its likely  there was a discussion about  it. And given Nationwide 
has provided an example  mortgage application  from the time showing what it would look 
like if PPI wasnt taken out, I think Nationwide did make it clear  PPI was optional.
So in light of the above and the fact that Mr and Mrs A signed their overall mortgage 
application, I think they chose to take out PPI and did so without undue pressure.
Ref: DRN67965472Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs A  Ive not seen enough  evidence  
to persuade me that it did. So it didnt have  to check if it was right for them. But it did 
have to make sure Mr and Mrs A got the information they needed  to decide if it was right 
for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. For example the evidence doesnt tell me when or if Mr and Mrs A 
were told about  the cost of the policy  albeit I find it unlikely they wouldve agreed  to go 
ahead knowing nothing about the cost.
But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of Mr As circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected  
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  for example those relating to 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances. So I think  it would 
have been useful for Mr and Mrs A if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and 
Mrs A off taking out the cover. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs A have  said - including  what they have said about 
their existing means they couldve  used to meet their mortgage payments, including  
accessing Mr As pension early. But these points dont change my decision.
I hear what Mr and Mrs A have said about using Mr As pension to meet  their mortgage 
payments. But not only do I think they wouldve wanted to avoid doing that, it would only 
have likely been possible for them to carry this out if Mr A was disabled to the extent that he 
could never  return to work.
Ive already said I think Mr and Mrs A chose  to take out the cover. And I dont think  it was 
misrepresented to them such that the policy operated significantly differently from what  they 
expected based on what they were told. I think its likely they chose PPI because  they 
understood the importance of protecting their main asset and they didnt want to rely on their 
other means  including  Mr As pension.
So while I accept Mr and Mrs A might  not have  been  clearly  given all of the information they 
needed about the policy to make an informed choice, for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont think they wouldve  acted any differently had Nationwide done anything  more.
Ref: DRN67965473my final decision
For the reasons  above Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold - so Nationwide Building  
Society does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020. 
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6796547