K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax caused him financial trouble because  of 
the change they made  to how they charge  him for his overdraft. He says they havent  helped 
him as they should.
background
Mr K has had a Halifax current account with an overdraft for some time Hes regularly been  
close to his £2500 limit and has often gone over it into an unplanned  overdraft, incurring  
additional costs  as a result.
Halifax changed the way they charge for their overdrafts  in November 2017. They switched 
to a daily charge  of 1p per £7 of balance used.  This replaced any interest  or other  charges 
which applied to Mr Ks account  previously, such as unplanned overdraft fees.
Mr K contacted Halifax that November in relation to the charges because  he thought they 
were going  to cause  him difficulty. He discussed  his options with their specialist team,  but 
was unhappy  with what they were  proposing as this could affect his ability to get credit in the 
future. 
Mr K rang back the next day. Hed mistakenly  given Halifax incorrect information.  He 
received more income than he originally thought, so had a surplus  each month instead of a 
deficit. He wanted them to freeze his charges for six months so he could reduce his balance. 
Other debts  were due to be repaid after this period, so hed have additional funds  available 
to help him do this.
Halifax refused Mr Ks proposal.  They froze charges  on his account until the end of 
December 2017  and waived the charges  that were due to be paid that month.
Mr K raised a complaint about the charges. He thought the cost prevented him from paying 
off his balance.  Halifax said they were able to make the change under the terms and 
conditions of his account. Unhappy with this response Mr K brought  his complaint  to us.
Our investigator decided  not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. They found:
-We werent going to make a general  finding  on whether the change Halifax made 
was fair or not, as this could affect other consumers  who may be happy with the new 
charging structure. But we would consider how the change  affected Mr K personally.
.
-Mr K had been experiencing problems with his overdraft before  the charging  
structure took effect. So the change hadnt caused his financial problems.
-Hed managed  to reduce his balance during the time the complaint had been with us, 
so no longer appeared to be having the same  trouble with his account. So Lloyds 
didnt need to do anything more to help.
In response Mr K said hed only be able to reduce his balance because he hadnt been 
driving, and had repaid other  debts.  Hed also received a sizeable compensation payment 
Ref: DRN62732472from Halifax. Halifax says this relates  to Mr Ks account usage between  May 2014 and 
November 2015.  They feel they shouldve done  more to help him during  this time.
Mr K asked for a final decision. He says hes now has been  made  redundant so may 
struggle to afford the charges in the future.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.
I agree  with our investigator that I dont think the change Halifax  made  was the initial  cause 
of Mr Ks financial  difficulties. He was having problems with his account for some  time before 
then. But I do think the change hasnt been  positive for him and certainly made  his account 
more expensive to service.
what does the law say?
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says an unfair term isnt binding  on a consumer. An example 
it gives of a term thats likely to be unfair, is one that allows a business to change its terms 
unilaterally without  giving  a valid reason in the contract. But it also provides several 
exclusions. 
One of these exclusions is a term allowing a change  in charges, providing the consumer is 
told about it at the earliest opportunity, and can exit the contract . And another  is a term in a 
contract - such as a current  account  - where the consumer must be told of the change and 
can exit the contract .
Mr Ks current account
The relevant  terms in Mr Ks contract  are quite  broad and on the face of it appear to give 
Halifax a wide discretion to make  changes to the way they charge for their account.  But 
because of how the terms are worded, its also possible Mr K wouldnt have foreseen  the 
kind of change Halifax chose to make when he first entered into his contract.
did Mr K have notice of the change?
Mr K says he didnt realise  the impact the charging  structure would have on him. But looking 
at the notification letter he received, it included different examples of what different size 
overdrafts would cost over a month.  So I think the letter contained enough  information  for 
him to understand the impact of the change if he compared his overdraft to those examples.
could Mr K exit his contract?
Ref: DRN62732473The terms of Mr Ks current account  do allow him to exit his contract at any time.  But 
whether he could exit his contract before the change is a practical,  as well as a legal 
consideration.
I appreciate Mr K received compensation from Halifax which helped  him reduce his overdraft  
balance. And I dont doubt he may have found it harder to pay down his balance  without  this 
while still being charged. But this doesnt  demonstrate he couldnt have found a practical 
way to pay back what he owed in order to exit his contract,  such as through  other lending. 
I understand Mr K might not have  wanted to look at alternative options.  But I think  it wouldve 
been reasonable for him to do this if he wanted  to avoid paying higher charges. After  all, his 
overdraft isnt permanent  and he could be asked to repay what  he owes  at any time.
has Halifax done enough to help?
Halifax should still take into account  their customers individual  circumstances to see how 
best they can help. And they should  also consider what  their customers  would  like them  to 
do. But this doesnt mean  they must always agree with them.  They might think  another 
solution is reasonable.
Mr K made it clear  he didnt want  an arrangement which  would affect his ability to obtain  
credit in the future.  Its true his creditworthiness  might be affected to a greater or lesser 
extent depending on what is recorded  on his credit  file. But I think it was appropriate for 
Halifax to consider a more  formal arrangement in Mr Ks circumstances. Hed had help from 
them previously and wanted further  help for six months, which is a relatively long period for 
charges to be frozen. Ive also bore in mind that Halifax often need to accurately report  their 
customers accounts to the credit  reference  agencies as part of the agreements they have 
with them.
I can see Halifax did give Mr K some  respite  from being charged and refunded  him charges 
which were due to be paid in December 2017. So overall I think  theyve done what they 
needed to so far. 
Im sorry  to hear Mr K has now been made redundant and no doubt this must be a difficult 
time for him. If he wishes to contact Halifax for further help, Id still expect them to see how 
best they can assist  him. But he might also wish to seek  advice from debt advice charities as 
I imagine the loss of his job may impact  him beyond just his Halifax  account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.  
Ref: DRN62732474Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6273247