K820x#14complaint
Mrs P and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1999 Mrs P and Mrs L took out PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Both were 
done during a branch  meeting. The policy was designed to protect Mrs P and Mrs Ls 
mortgage payments  (it also provided an additional benefit of 25% of the benefit amount) if 
either of them  were off work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment.  The policy benefit 
was established  on a 50/50  benefit  split basis and overall it cost just over £17 a month.
At the time both Mrs P and Mrs L were employed and both appear to say they were entitled 
to sick pay of 12 months pay (Mrs P initially said she was entitled to three months sick pay.)  
Theyve said they had other means  they couldve used to make  their mortgage payments, 
including savings and help from others. They said they were both in good health  at the time.
BoS records show the mortgage account ended  in 2007.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mrs P and 
Mrs L chose to take out PPI and there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or unsuitable for 
them.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mrs P and Mrs L were  hoping for, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasoning  is set out below.
did Mrs P and Mrs L know they had a choice about PPI?
BoS needed to make sure it presented PPI as being optional.
Mrs P and Mrs L say they were under the impression theyd stand a better chance of getting  
the mortgage if they took out PPI.
BoS has provided copies of the paperwork completed at the time of the sale.  Looking at this, 
I can see firstly that on the mortgage application Mrs P and Mrs L signed a separate section 
under the statement which read: Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage  
Repayments Insurance.  And they also signed a separate PPI application.
Ref: DRN64921032While I accept its possible the adviser  said or led Mrs P and Mrs L to believe they had to 
have PPI to get the mortgage,  given  they signed a separate application and there  was 
nothing on the paperwork which  said or implied  they had to have it (or that it would improve  
their chances of getting the mortgage approved) I think more  likely  than not they chose to 
take it out. 
So overall, I think Mrs P and Mrs L chose to take out the cover  albeit  cover  that was 
recommended to them  and they did so without undue pressure.
did BoS provide advice?
Its not disputed  that BoS provided advice  and recommended PPI to Mrs P and Mrs L. So 
BoS had to ensure the cover was suitable for them. And it had to give them enough  clear  
and timely  information  about the policy so they could make an informed decision about 
whether to go ahead  with the recommendation or not.
the advice
Based on the paperwork  BoS provided from the meeting with Mrs P and Mrs L, it appears 
the adviser took some steps  to ensure the cover was suitable for them.  For example the 
adviser recorded information  about  their employment and incomes and it appears based in 
whats written  on the PPI application  that they were asked some questions  about their 
health.
But the evidence  doesnt tell me that BoS took all reasonable steps when  providing  advice  
for example I cant see that questions were asked about Mrs L and Mrs Ps existing  means, 
such as their sick pay entitlement they could use to make their mortgage  payments. So I 
accept its possible BoS didnt do all that it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
provided advice  to Mrs L and Mrs P.
However, in light of Mrs L and Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time, it appears that the 
recommendation for them to take out PPI was ultimately suitable - so it wasnt wrong for BoS 
to have recommended it. I say this because:
both Mrs L and Mrs P were eligible for the cover.
they were both permanently employed  and in good health at the time,  so they werent  
affected by the significant exclusions to and limits on the cover.
both Mrs L and Mrs P said they were  entitled  to sick pay (although its not clear to me 
exactly at what level this was from the different information theyve given)  and they 
say they had other means they couldve relied on  including  savings and equity in 
the property.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay and for longer if 
necessary  the benefit period was up to 24 months for both disability and 
unemployment. This wouldve allowed them to preserve any savings or delay the 
need to call on them. Im mindful  too that I think its unlikely  Mrs P and Mrs L had 
significant savings  at the time.  I say this because the mortgage  application  doesnt  
record anything in the savings and investment section; they were borrowing 95% of 
their property  value; and its recorded  that at the time that Mrs L had approximately  
£10,000 of unsecured  debt elsewhere, which wasnt being repaid by the mortgage  
advance  these  borrowings  were set to continue.
Ref: DRN64921033Mrs P and Mrs L say they couldve sold personal  possessions or used the equity in 
their property to help them out. But given  the high loan to value (95%) I dont think  
using the equity in their property was a realistic  or reasonable  option  for them.  And I 
find it unlikely that if it came to it, Mrs L and Mrs P wouldve realistically  wanted  to sell 
personal possessions  to meet their mortgage payments  in any event I wouldnt 
expect an adviser to have  considered these guaranteed means when giving their 
advice.  
So despite  what  Mrs P and Mrs L say that PPI wasnt relevant to them  they didnt 
need or want it  I think they did have a need  for cover.  The evidence about  their 
circumstances suggests they didnt have  significant existing means they couldve 
used if things went wrong. So on the basis that they were taking out a not 
insignificant amount of debt secured  on their home,  I think the PPI wouldve played a 
useful part in helping  to meet their mortgage payments should the insured risks have 
become a reality  thus helping to protect their home.
the policy appears to have been affordable, so its cost didnt make  it unsuitable.
the information
I can see from the PPI application that Mrs P and Mrs L had some  information about the cost 
and the benefit of the policy. The mortgage  application also referred  to the policy as 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. Mrs P and Mrs L have said not much was said 
about the policy. But I find it unlikely they wouldve  agreed to go ahead  with the policy  
without knowing something about  it  the information they did have wouldve given them  a 
broad sense of what it was and what it offered. 
That said,  the evidence  doesnt tell me whether BoS told Mrs P and Mrs L everything they 
needed to know  and in a timely manner before they made their decision to take the policy 
out. For example,  while the PPI application suggests  Mrs P and Mrs L were  asked questions  
about their health,  I cant see that BoS told them why and sufficiently highlighted  the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  such as those relating to existing medical  
conditions. So I accept  its possible there were failings here.
But as Ive explained above,  the evidence about Mrs P and Mrs Ls circumstances at the 
time show that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for them: they were  eligible for its 
benefits; they werent caught by the significant  exclusions and limitations of cover; and it 
couldve played a useful part in helping them to protect their mortgage payments and 
ultimately their home in the event  the insured risks became  a reality - notwithstanding any 
employee benefits and other means they had. And it is in those circumstances that I think, 
more likely than not, Mrs P and Mrs L wouldve still taken out the policy had BoS done  
anything more.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs P and Mrs L have said. But these things dont  
change my decision. For the reasons  Ive set out above, I dont think  Mrs P and Mrs L have 
lost out as a result of taking out PPI with their mortgage  I think  theyre in the same position  
they wouldve  been had everything happened  as it should have. So it wouldnt be fair in 
those circumstances  to award compensation and give them back what  they paid for the 
policy.
Ref: DRN64921034my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6492103