K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the way that The Car Finance Company (2007) Limited  has dealt with 
his voluntary termination of a hire purchase agreement and about  the service  that hes 
received from it.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr B under  a hire purchase agreement  with the Car Finance 
Company that he signed in May 2016.  The agreement was for four years  and the monthly 
repayment was £391.13. Two payments were collected from Mr B in March  2018. He 
contacted the Car Finance Company and it refunded one payment to him, apologised and 
offered him £25 as a gesture of goodwill  which  it then increased to £50. 
Mr B didnt accept that offer and wrote to it in July 2018 to terminate his agreement. It says that 
it left messages for him but he didnt contact it so the termination process wasnt started and a 
default notice  was recorded on his account because he hadnt made the required monthly  
payment for the car. The agreement was terminated later that month and the car was collected 
from Mr B in October  2018 but he complained to it about the delay in terminating his agreement. 
It offered  to pay him £150  compensation  in view of the time taken and the level of customer 
service that hed received (which included the £50 that hed previously been offered). It said 
that it had removed a contractual  payment of £391.13 from his account and that it had 
amended his credit file to show that the agreement was voluntarily terminated in July 2018. 
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She agreed that the 
voluntary termination  process couldve been  handled better but she thought that the offer of 
£100 in relation to that was fair. She said that shed  seen no evidence to show  that Mr B had 
tried to contact it in the five weeks after his termination letter  and she thought  that it would be 
reasonable to expect  that he wouldve followed-up on the letter sooner than he did.
Mr B has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, that:
he asked for communication by e-mail;
the adjudicator says that the Car Finance Company sent him an e-mail  about his 
voluntary termination of the agreement  but he didnt  receive it;
the adjudicator hasnt  mentioned  the phone recording during  which  he was requested to 
pay the arrears  and threatened with repossession  when he refused  to pay;
after the car was collected he received a letter saying that he owed it more than £6,000; and
he tried to phone the Car Finance Company on the number provided but could never get 
through and didnt  have the time to wait until someone finally  answered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have clearly been some issues relating to Mr Bs hire purchase  agreement.  The Car 
Finance Company accepts that it collected two payments  in March 2018  in error. It 
apologised to him, refunded the payment and offered him £25  which it then increased to 
£50. It asked Mr B to confirm his acceptance  of that offer  but Ive seen  no evidence to 
show that he accepted it so the payment wasnt made. But I consider that its offer of £50 
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN62303902Mr B then wrote to the Car Finance Company in July 2018 and gave notice that he was 
terminating the agreement. He was sent a reply by e-mail later that day (and I consider it to 
be likely  that thats the e-mail to which the adjudicator was referring).  The e-mail said that 
the notice had been forwarded:  to the relevant department in order  to arrange contact 
with you to discuss the process with you further. Mr B received  that e-mail because  he 
replied to it. So I consider  that he knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that there was a 
process that had to be followed and that he would be contacted  about  it.
The Car Finance  Companys account notes show that it phoned both numbers that Mr B had 
provided on two occasions  and left messages for him to contact it. Ive seen no evidence to 
show that he contacted it until nearly  five weeks later. He says that hed asked for 
communication by e-mail but I dont consider that it was unreasonable for it to phone him on 
the numbers that hed provided and to lease messages for him.
Those notes show that it phoned him in September 2018 about the arrears on his account 
and he said that he wasnt paying it any money because  hed cancelled  his contract and: 
Advised cust if he does  not work with us the car will be repossessed  and he will be liable for 
the full outstanding balance, cust said he will see us in court. The Car Finance Company 
says that the car was repossessed in October 2018.
The agreement was terminated but Mr B says that he received a letter saying that he owed 
£6,000. Mr B complained to the Car Finance Company and it back  dated the voluntary 
termination of his agreement to the date of his termination notice in July 2018 and amended 
his credit file to show that so it waived the payments  that had become due after that date.  
And it offered to pay him the £50 compensation that hed previously been offered  and a 
further £100 in relation to the voluntary termination of the agreement. It says that Mr B 
doesnt owe it £6,000 and he was sent a statement of account which  showed  that the 
balance on his account was £0 (but the statement  did say that if he hadnt terminated the 
agreement the remaining  balance would have been  £6,474).
I consider that response to have been  fair and reasonable.  And Im not persuaded that these  
circumstances justify  a higher  award  of compensation  or that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require  the Car Finance Company to take any other action in response  to Mr Bs 
complaint. So I find that it would  be fair and reasonable  for the Car Finance  Company to pay 
to Mr B the £150  compensation that its already offered to him. But the Car Finance 
Company has stopped  trading and its unlikely that Mr B will receive that compensation.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that The Car Finance  Company (2007) Limited should pay 
£150 to Mr B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2021.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6230390