K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain in summary,  that Santander  UK Plc did not help them  recover  all the 
money they paid to a binary options  trading platform using  Mr Hs Santander  VISA  debit 
card.
As Mr H had most of the dealings with Santander, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having come from Mr H himself.
Background
After seeing an advertisement for an entity,  S Ltd, offering binary options  trading Mr H 
decided to deposit £250  with it using  a credit card with one of his banking providers (Bank  
A). Mr H says he felt persuaded  to invest because the advert was endorsed by a well-known 
celebrity and S Ltd appointed an investment manager to manage his trading account. He 
says he was pressured by the investment manager into depositing further  funds  using his 
Bank A credit card, so he deposited a further  £500. After more pressure  from the investment 
manager, Mr H deposited £1,250 using his Santander VISA  debit card on 4 September 
2018. Ten days later, Mr H saw that his investments had earned profits  and had grown to 
£2,348.74. 
A different investment manager got in touch with Mr H and asked him to invest a further 
£250 and he did so with his Bank  A credit card. Shortly after Mr H made the payment, he 
changed his mind and filled in an online withdrawal  form to get this money back. He was told 
his withdrawal would  be processed within five working days. The withdrawal  didnt 
materialise and Mr Hs account was subsequently  closed down by S Ltd and re-opened 
under a new username and password. 
Mr H saw his balance continue to grow to £3,074.90 and decided to withdraw £3,000 on 8 
October 2018.  He understood from his terms and conditions with S Ltd that it was entitled to 
take a fee of £20 for his request. Mr H was asked to validate his account with S Ltd by 
providing identification and address verification documents.  Shortly after Mr Hs account was 
validated, his available balance dropped  to £133.45. Mr H emailed  the investment  manager 
to inform him what had happened and explained  he was happy  to withdraw his deposits 
alone, rather than any profits.  
Mr H was diagnosed with cancer shortly  after his withdrawal request, which  he explained  to 
the investment  manager. The investment manager told Mr H that his request would be 
expedited, however, Mr H didnt hear anything further. That led him to approach  Santander 
and Bank  A to help recover his money.  
Bank A successfully processed  chargeback claims  for Mr H and recovered the deposits  
made with Mr Hs Bank A credit card. 
Santander declined  to process  a chargeback claim for Mr H because it said his particular 
dispute was not covered by the dispute resolution  process and he had benefited from the 
service of S Ltd. Mr H referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator concluded, first of all, that Mr H did have valid chargeback  grounds and 
Santander ought to have done more to gather the evidence it required to process a 
chargeback claim  for Mr H. He further found that S Ltd had operated  a scam and he felt 
there were strong grounds to process a chargeback claim. 
Ref: DRN60335372Although Mr H accepted the investigators  recommendation, Santander  did not. It maintained 
Mr Hs dispute was not covered by the chargeback  process. The complaint has, therefore,  
been referred to me for review and determination.  
My Final  Decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing  so, I uphold  this complaint for 
largely the same reasons  as that of our investigator. 
The chargeback scheme is voluntary,  and banks  are not under  a formal obligation  to submit 
a chargeback claim. However, this services view is that it is good practice for a bank to 
process a chargeback claim  where  rights  exist under the scheme rules. 
VISA expanded its rules for transactions made after 14 October 2017 to address  cases 
whereby a binary options or investment trading  merchant had imposed obstacles  preventing  
cardholders from withdrawing their available funds.  The applicable reason code is 13.5 
(misrepresentation). This chargeback right is limited to the amount available  in the account  
at the time funds  are requested and a card issuer cannot chargeback more than the original 
value of the transaction. 
There is a time limit of 120 days applicable to this chargeback reason code which  applies 
from the date the cardholder  expected to receive the services, rather than the date of the 
transaction, up to 540 days  from the date of the original transaction.  
In Mr Hs case,  Im satisfied he did have a dispute  right within  the VISA chargeback  scheme 
because S Ltd didnt allow him to withdraw his available balance. However, this reason code  
required some  specific evidence which Ive listed here:
Evidence the cardholder attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant.  If this 
was unsuccessful, evidence the cardholder cancelled services. 
Evidence that the cardholders investment account had funds to withdraw. This 
evidence must be dated to show that funds were available  on the day the cardholder  
requested the withdrawal. 
Evidence the cardholder requested  a withdrawal equal to or less than the funds 
available in the investment account. 
In Mr Hs case, he provided evidence to Santander  that he tried to resolve this matter directly  
with S Ltd. Mr H also provided evidence that he attempted  to withdraw £3,000 from his 
trading platform. He received a dated acknowledgement from S Ltd (the same day as his 
withdrawal request) who advised that his withdrawal  request of £3,000  would be processed.  
Im therefore satisfied  the evidence supplied  by Mr H to Santander would have been 
sufficient to support  a chargeback claim under  reason  code 13.5. 
Given that reason code 13.5 was introduced specifically for claims relating to binary options 
trading merchants preventing cardholders from withdrawing their available balances and this 
was the very nature of Mr Hs claim,  I think Santander unreasonably declined  to process a 
chargeback claim for him. As Mr Hs Bank A claim succeeded against S Ltd, it follows that I 
think, on balance, a chargeback claim would have also succeeded with Santander, if one 
had been attempted.  
Ref: DRN60335373Because of this, I think Santander should return the full amount he paid to S Ltd using his 
Santander VISA debit  card, plus interest. 
My Final  Decision 
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Santander UK PLC to:
Refund the payment Mr H paid to S Ltd (totalling £1,250).
Pay interest  to Mr H on the above sums, at an annual  rate of 8% simple,  from the 
date Mr H reported  the fraud, to the date of settlement.  If Santander is required to 
deduct tax from the interest  it should  send Mr H a tax deduction  certificate so he can 
claim it back from HMRC  if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2021.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6033537