K820x#14Complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, closed her account  and 
loaded a Credit  Industry Fraud  Awareness  (CIFAS)  marker. Shed like the marker removed. 
Background
In July 2018 three cheques were paid into Miss Ds Halifax account. These cheques  were 
returned unpaid  and Halifax received contact from another bank, Ill call S, who informed 
them that the cheques were fraudulent. 
Halifax reviewed Miss Ds account  and decided to close it. They  also added a Misuse  of 
Facility CIFAS  marker on Miss Ds record. 
Miss D had several telephone calls with Halifax and also visited a few branches  to discuss  
their decision. Miss D firstly  told Halifax  that she was moving money  earnt from selling goods 
in Sierra Leone and later explained she was paying  back a friend whod lent her money.  
Miss D explained that she wasnt aware that cheques were  going to be credited into her 
account  or that they were fraudulent. 
Halifax didnt uphold  Miss Ds complaint.  And said they were satisfied they had sufficient  
evidence to meet the bar for CIFAS. 
Miss D wasnt  happy with Halifaxs response  so complained to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ds complaint.  On speaking with Miss D she 
provided a further  explanation for why her account  details  had been  compromised. Miss D 
explained that shed sold land previously  owned by her late mother, and wanted this 
transferred to London. Our investigator  asked why shed provided different explanations 
before to Halifax and Miss D said this is because she was frustrated, and she wasnt  selling 
goods or paying back a friend.
Our investigator thought that despite Miss Ds contradictory testimony Halifax didnt have 
enough evidence  to meet the bar for CIFAS. But she felt the account had been closed fairly. 
And she recommended that the marker  is removed, Miss D is compensated for the 
additional costs  shes incurred in using a fee paying account and she should be paid £250 in 
distress and inconvenience. 
Halifax didnt agree with our investigators  conclusion. In summary they said:
-Miss Ds given a number of different explanations for why her account  details were 
compromised, and she was trying  to transfer  funds through  her Halifax account.
-Miss D hasnt provided any evidence to support  her explanations. 
-They believe theyve reached  the bar for a CIFAS  marker  to be loaded on Miss Ds 
record. 
As Halifax didnt agree  the case was passed  to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN63096832On reviewing Miss Ds case I came to a slightly different conclusion  to our investigator.  And I 
issued my Provisional  Decision to both Halifax and Miss D in October  2020. Halifax 
accepted my Provisional Decision without further comments but Miss D didnt. In summary  
she said:
-She decided to tell Halifax  different stories so that someone would ask her to find 
evidence. 
-She worked hard for the money  that was received into her Halifax  account.  
-She was expecting cash not cheques,  and didnt know  anything about the cheques. 
-Shes provided bank  statements from her account with Halifax and another  bank, Ill 
call N, which  show she was purchasing goods in UK supermarkets to sell in Sierra  
Leone. 
Because Miss D didnt  accept my Provisional Decision Ive re-considered my conclusions. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive not changed  my 
original conclusions. 
In my provisional decision I said:
The marker that Halifax have filed with CIFAS is intended to record  that theres been a 
misuse of facility   relating to using the account  to receive fraudulent  funds. In order to file 
such a marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss D is guilty of 
a fraud  of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds  for more than mere 
suspicion or concern.  CIFAS says:
 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed  or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such  that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show  that either there was an 
attempt to put fraudulent funds into Miss Ds account or fraudulent funds have entered  
Miss Ds account, and were either moved  on or retained. Secondly, the bank will need to 
have strong  evidence to show that Miss D was deliberately  dishonest  in receiving the 
fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This can include 
allowing someone  else to use her account  in order to receive  an illegitimate payment. But a 
marker should not be registered against  someone  who was unwitting;  there  should  be 
enough evidence  to show deliberate complicity. 
Ive thought about whether Halifax have provided evidence that fraudulent funds entered 
Miss Ds account and she knew they were, or might be, illegitimate payments. And I think 
they have, Ill explain  why below:
-Im satisfied  that the evidence Halifax provided  regarding the three cheques  credited 
into Miss Ds account shows they were  fraudulent. 
-Im concerned and surprised about  Miss Ds contradictory accounts of what 
happened. I accept that the cheques were  deposited  over two years ago now and 
Ref: DRN63096833Miss Ds explanation may have changed slightly over time. But I think  there are 
significant differences in Miss Ds accounts of what happened ranging  from owing  
money to a friend,  being self-employed and selling goods and her most recent 
explanation which centres on selling land owned by her late mother. And Ive not 
seen any evidence to support any of these accounts.
-Even if I did accept Miss Ds final explanation of what happened  as accurate, I 
struggle to understand  after receiving  funds from Miss D  why a fraudster would 
deposit fraudulent  cheques  into her account.
Account closure
Ive also thought about whether Halifax closed Miss Ds account fairly,  and Im satisfied they 
did. On the 21 August  2018 Halifax sent Miss D a letter  saying that her account  would be 
closed within  14 days. Ive looked  at the terms and conditions of Miss Ds account and Im 
satisfied that they acted  within these  terms when closing Miss Ds account  immediately.  
I realise this will be disappointing  to Miss D but for the reasons Ive outlined above  I think  
Halifax have acted fairly in loading a CIFAS  marker on her record and closing her account.  
In doing so Im currently minded to not ask the bank to do anything  further. 
Ive considered Miss Ds response to my Provisional  Decision. 
Miss D has responded  to my point about  the different  versions shes  provided by stating that 
she gave different accounts  to Halifax out of frustration.  And wanted  them  to ask her for 
evidence to demonstrate her innocence.  Im afraid I dont find this explanation credible. I 
struggle to understand why Miss D provided two explanations she now informs  me werent 
accurate when she was provided with the opportunity to explain the origin of the funds to 
Halifax and our service. 
Miss Ds provided me with bank statements, from two of her bank  accounts,  to support her 
explanation of the origin of the funds. From looking at the statements I can see transactions  
which took place  at UK supermarkets  but what this doesnt show  me is exactly what  
Miss D was purchasing  and how she transported  or sold these products in Sierra  Leone.  Ive 
also not seen  anything to show Miss Ds discussions with money  transfer agents in Sierra 
Leone to indicate her attempt  to transfer  genuine funds. 
Miss Ds explained  that she wasnt aware cheques would be deposited into her account. I 
accept, that its possible  Miss D wasnt aware  that the money was going  to be deposited into 
her account  in the form of cheques. But, as I explained in my Provisional Decision, I cant 
find a plausible  explanation for why a fraudster would deposit the cheques  into Miss Ds 
account without  her knowledge.  
In summary  for the reasons Ive explained  above I think Miss D was complicit in receiving 
the fraudulent  payments, it follows Halifax have met the requirements to load a CIFAS 
marker and I wont be asking the bank to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Ref: DRN63096834Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2021.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6309683