K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt tell her it was adding  extra  excess 
endorsements to her home insurance  policy at the 2016 renewal. 
background
Following a number  of claims,  UKI added three endorsements to Ms Rs policy  at the 
October 2016 renewal. Effectively, the three  endorsements added  an additional £200 excess  
for any claim  (in addition  to the standard policy excesses) under the buildings, contents  and 
personal possessions  sections of the policy. The endorsements appeared on the 2016, 2017 
and 2018 renewal documentation.  
When Ms R called to discuss her renewal in October  2018  the advisor failed to pick up on 
the extra excess endorsements now on the policy when talking about the premium and a 
claim she recently tried to make for her glasses that wasnt financially worth it because  of the 
applicable excesses.  UKI paid Ms R compensation of £40 for any trouble  and upset caused  
by giving her incomplete information. Ms R renewed the policy. 
Shortly after, Ms R complained to this service that shed renewed her policy  and had been 
told by UKI during  the renewal that shed only pay a standard excess  should she make a 
claim. She said shed  now received the policy documents and noted the extra  excess  
endorsements which meant shed have to pay more in the event of the claim. She said she 
hadnt been told about this nor had it been clearly explained to her by UKI why the 
endorsements had been added. Ms R thought she hadnt been treated fairly.
Our investigator looked into Ms Rs complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. She said 
UKI had drawn  the endorsements  to Ms Rs attention in a number of ways since 2016 so she 
couldnt agree with Ms R that itd failed to tell her they were  being applied to her policy. She 
said it was up to UKI to decide on what basis it would offer cover but could see it had added 
the endorsements in line with its own underwriting criteria. Finally she thought UKI had fairly 
compensated Ms R for any trouble and upset caused by providing her with incorrect 
information about the excesses.   
Ms R disagreed with our investigators  findings.  She said UKI had also increased  her 
premium. She asked for her complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant agree  with Ms R that UKI didnt tell her that it was applying  the three  endorsements to 
her policy and that she has been unfairly  treated as a result. Thats  because  I can see that 
UKI sent Ms R a letter  in August 2016  advising her, in view of her recent claims history, that 
endorsements would be added to her policy at the October 2016 renewal. The letter  listed  
four claims Ms R had made since November 2012  two of which (one for storm, one for 
subsidence) were still ongoing.  The letter said, Renewal documents will be sent to you 
shortly but I would ask you to note that in future  you will be responsible  for the first £200 of 
any claim under the policy. This is in addition to the standard  excess printed in your policy  
documents. These terms will be reviewed in 3 years time dependent on the claims 
experience in the meantime. 
Ref: DRN66355142And Ive seen the renewal documents from the 2016, 2017 and 2018 which clearly set out 
the endorsements on to the policy.
I can also see that when  Ms R claimed  for her glasses in 2018,  she was told then by UKI 
that shed have to pay as additional excess of £200  on top of the standard  excess of £250.  
Ms R withdrew the claim because it wasnt financially worth  making.  
So I cant reasonably  say that UKI failed to make Ms R aware that the endorsements were  
being applied  to her policy, or that it failed  to tell her why.
 
Ive also thought about whether UKI unfairly  applied the endorsements and Im unable  to 
agree it did. I can see they were  applied in line with its own underwriting criteria and were  
applied as result  of Ms Rs recent claims history. Its up to individual  insurers  what factors 
they choose to take into account when deciding  whether to offer cover  and, if so, on what 
terms. So long as UKI applies its criteria fairly  to all its customers, and hasnt singled Ms R 
out in any way, then this service wont interfere in that decision. Ms R says that it wasnt  fair 
to apply the endorsements at all and that she couldve  taken her business elsewhere if shed 
known about them. Of course theres no obligation  on Ms R to continue to take out her 
insurance with UKI but, even if she were  to decide to move  insurer,  it is almost certain that 
her new insurer would  consider her recent  claims history to be a relevant factor when  
deciding whether it wished to take on the risk of insuring her and at what  cost. 
Finally Ive thought  about whether UKI has fairly compensated  Ms R for its failure to discuss 
the endorsement excesses with her when she called to talk about her October  2018  renewal. 
UKI has admitted  its advisor failed to pick up the extra excess endorsements on the policy 
during the call. Its said it couldve provided Ms R with better customer service  and has paid 
her compensation of £40 for its shortcomings. I think that the amount paid is fair in the 
circumstances and in line with this services approach  to such awards. Indeed, if this 
complaint had passed across my desk without any award having already been  made,  its 
unlikely Id have  awarded any more. 
Im unable to consider  here Ms Rs more recent  complaint  about  the price  of her policy.  
Thats because she needs  to make it to UKI first so it has the chance  to consider it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6635514