K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc lent him money irresponsibly when it should have 
realised that he had a gambling problem.
background
In May 2014  Bank of Scotland  (trading  as Halifax) approved a £500 overdraft limit for Mr W. 
He quickly increased  this to £1,900 by online application. In April 2015 he settled the 
overdraft using a loan from another provider. Over the following year he frequently  applied 
online for overdraft increases and reached  a limit of £3500 in May 2016. Again he repaid this 
in full using a loan from another provider. The same  pattern of overdraft  applications and 
increases continued until Mr W reached a limit of £4,150 in October 2017. Mr W applied for a 
Halifax loan that month  and used it to repay his overdraft and existing loan.
Mr W then complained to Halifax saying that it should  not have continued to approve  his 
applications as he was using the money  to fund his gambling habit. He said he had told 
Halifax of his problems  during branch visits, but in any event an inspection  of his account  
would have revealed that he was spending  money on gambling. Mr W said Halifax had 
allowed him to run up significant  debts that were  made worse  by interest charges and 
overdraft fees. He said all of this had had a very severe impact  on his health and well being, 
and also resulted in him now having a very poor credit score. 
In its reply Halifax explained how it assessed borrowing applications by taking account of, 
amongst other things,  applicants credit reference  file information and information it had on 
file if the applicant was an existing customer. It also considered income and expenditure 
information to determine whether the sum applied for was likely to be affordable. And the 
bank said it had followed these procedures in approving Mr Ws applications.
It said it wasnt aware that Mr W had gambling problems and didnt routinely look at the 
detail of how customers were spending  their money  on a daily basis.  It didnt uphold  Mr Ws 
complaint, but provided a telephone number if Mr W wished  to discuss his finances or seek  
support.
Mr W was unhappy with this response  and brought  his complaint to us.
Our adjudicators view was that Halifax had dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly. In summary, 
the adjudicator  considered that the bank had carried out reasonable checks  before 
approving Mr Ws applications and his credit file hadnt revealed a record of significant  
arrears or account defaults. 
The adjudicator also looked at whether the two loans Mr W had taken  out with Halifax could 
be said to have been lent to him irresponsibly. But his view was that the loans  appeared to 
have been affordable, and the second  loan reduced Mr Ws monthly outgoings.  And whilst 
he accepted that Mr W had a gambling  problem, he could see no evidence that the bank had 
been made aware of this. Mr Ws account did show online gambling transactions, but he 
nevertheless remained  broadly  within  his credit limit and made  regular credits  to his account.
Based on the information available to Halifax the adjudicator didnt consider that its lending 
decisions had been made irresponsibly.
Mr W disagreed  and re-emphasised  his earlier  points about the adverse impact  of his debt 
on both his health and credit score.  
Ref: DRN67175862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Essentially, Mr W is saying that Halifax should have realised  he was spending his money  on 
gambling and not continued to provide him with the means to do this over an extended 
period. He has said that the banks irresponsible lending resulted in him incurring a 
significant level of indebtedness and that this has had an adverse impact  on his health.
Banks are expected  to act responsibly  in approving borrowing requests. They  should  carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks on applicants credit  worthiness and assess  the 
likelihood that applicants will be able to repay  the money in an acceptable timescale. But the 
precise checks are not prescribed  and it is up to individual organisations to determine what 
checks they consider  necessary in particular  circumstances.  
Most of Mr Ws applications were made online and were for overdraft increases. Halifax has 
said that that although the approval  process  was automated, checks  were nevertheless still 
carried out and it has explained in broad terms what these were.  
Having looked  at Mr Ws credit file and information  about his account  I can see no apparent 
reason why Halifax would have had concerns  about either his overdraft or loan applications. 
His account was generally well managed and his credit file didnt highlight any particular 
issues. And the amounts he was requesting appear  to have been affordable based on his 
declared income.
But Mr W believes that the bank  should  have realised from his statements that he was 
spending a lot of money  gambling and so turned down his applications. But Im afraid  I 
cannot agree with Mr W on this point.  Generally  I wouldnt expect banks to analyse 
customers daily expenditure unless customers were either  in financial difficulty, which  Mr W 
wasnt, or the bank  had been alerted to some  problem with a customers financial 
circumstances. Mr W has said that he told branch staff about  his gambling problem, and 
although I do not doubt that he did, he mustnt have done so with sufficient emphasis for it to 
be noted as of potential concern. 
And so although  I have  considerable  sympathy  with Mr W Im afraid I cannot reasonably  
conclude that Halifax has done anything wrong  here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6717586