K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that JD Williams & Company Limited treated  him unfairly  in relation to 
his Jacamo account  and that it provided credit to him irresponsibly when it provided him with 
a second credit account under the brand name  High and Mighty.  
background
JD Williams provided  Mr L with a Jacamo  account  in April 2016 but removed this credit  
facility from him in April 2017.  I understand the outstanding balance  on this account  was 
eventually passed  to a third-party debt collector  in December 2017.
In March 2017 JD Williams also provided  Mr L with a second credit  account under the brand 
name High and Mighty (H&M). I understand this account was opened with a credit limit of 
£125. The account defaulted in February 2018 and it appears that in March  2019 JD 
Williams wrote off the outstanding balance of £140.
In April 2017 Mr L complained to JD Williams  about  the removal  of the credit facility  from his 
Jacamo account. JD Williams didnt uphold his complaint and in January 2019 Mr L brought  
his complaint to this service. 
At the same time as complaining to us about  the removal of the credit facility from his 
Jacamo account, Mr L also complained that JD Williams  had provided  credit to him 
irresponsibly when allowed him to open the H&M account. And he complained that JD 
Williams had acted unfairly when it applied charges and interest to his Jacamo account, after 
the credit  facility had been removed.
It seems  that Mr L hadnt previously complained  to JD Williams about his H&M account  or 
about what he says were unfair interest  and charges applied  to his Jacamo  account. So JD 
Williams investigated and provided him with its Final Response  on this second complaint in 
March 2019. Mr L wasnt  happy with JD Williams response, and he asked this service to 
look into it.
JD Williams has told us that it thinks Mr Ls original complaint about the removal  of the credit 
facility from his Jacamo account  was brought too late, as it says it was referred to this 
service outside of the six-month time limit under  the regulations. And it didnt uphold  Mr Ls 
second complaint  about his H&M account or what hed said about  interest  and charges that 
had been applied to his Jacamo account.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She agreed that Mr Ls complaint about the 
removal of his credit facility had been referred too late, so she thought we couldnt look at 
that part of his complaint. But she thought  that JD Williams ought not to have provided  Mr L 
with his H&M account and that JD Williams had acted unfairly when it applied charges and 
interest to Mr Ls Jacamo account after it had removed the credit facility.  So she asked JD 
Williams to put things right.
JD Williams acknowledged the adjudicators  view but asked for an extended period in which 
to consider its response. 
Mr L told us he accepted the adjudicators view and that he had nothing further to add. I am 
not going to consider any further  his complaint about  the removal of the credit facility from 
Ref: DRN66941452his Jacamo account  - Mr L has not challenged the adjudicators view that this part of his 
complaint was brought too late. But I am considering in this decision  whether or not JD 
Williams ought  to have provided  him with his H&M account and whether  or not it acted 
unfairly towards him in relation to the interest and charges it applied to his Jacamo account.
JD Williams does not appear to have  given any further response to the adjudicators 
assessment. The date by which it said it would respond passed some  weeks ago. As the 
matter has not been  settled  it has been  passed to me to resolve.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering complaints  about  consumer credit and 
irresponsible lending  on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good 
industry practice and law. And Ive considered  this approach when deciding  Mr Ls 
complaint.
As Ive explained, I am not considering  Mr Ls complaint about the removal  of his credit  
facility from his Jacamo account.
But I am considering  Mr Ls complaint raised in 2019 that firstly, JD Williams provided credit 
to him irresponsibly when it allowed him to open  his H&M account and secondly, that JD 
Williams acted unfairly when it applied charges and interest to his Jacamo account after the 
credit facility had been removed.  
Did JD Williams  provide credit irresponsibly to Mr L when it provided him with an 
H&M account?
The rules  and regulations throughout JD Williams lending relationship with Mr L required it 
to carry out a reasonable and proportionate  assessment of whether Mr L could afford to 
repay what he owed  in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes  referred to as 
an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so JD Williams had to think  about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr L. In 
practice this meant that JD Williams had to ensure that making the payments to the credit 
wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt  
enough for JD Williams to simply think about  the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had 
to consider the impact of any repayments  on Mr L.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the credit  application.  
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including (but not limited to) the particular circumstances of the consumer 
and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN66941453the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income);
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact that 
the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater  and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether JD Williams did what  it needed to before agreeing 
to provide Mr L with his H&M account  and set a credit limit of £125.
JD Williams has told us that when Mr L applied for his H&M account, he was up to date with 
payment to his Jacamo account. And that Mr L was provided with his H&M account a month 
before he started  to fall behind with payments to his Jacamo account.  JD Williams  says it 
does not believe  it was irresponsible to accept  Mr Ls application for his H&M account based  
on this and the positive information it says it received from the credit report  it had acquired.  
JD Williams also says that Mr L was only given a 125.00 credit limit and this limit was not 
increased.
But I think it would have  been proportionate  for JD Williams checks  to go further than they 
did. I think it is difficult to establish whether repayments of credit would be affordable  without 
an understanding of a consumers income  and regular monthly expenditure. Overall, given 
the limited information  that Ive seen from JD Williams, I cannot say that the checks  it carried 
out before  providing Mr L with his H&M account were reasonable and proportionate. 
However, I do think its likely that JD Williams would have been aware from its existing 
relationship with Mr L that he might already be struggling to manage his finances  when he 
applied for the H&M account. 
I say this because  there  was only a very short time between Mr L applying  for his H&M 
account and JD Williams  removing the credit  facility on his Jacamo account. JD Williams has 
said removed the credit facility due to excessive adjustments on the account  when it 
compared these  to the repayments that Mr L was making. It seems  that excessive 
adjustments refer to the credit limit increases on Mr Ls Jacamo account. 
I think its likely that when  Mr L applied  for his H&M  account,  JD Williams already had 
concerns about  the way he was managing his Jacamo account. He had exceeded  the credit 
limit on his Jacamo account,  which was considerably higher than the limit set when he 
opened his account. And hed been  in arrears on the account in the months  prior to his 
application for the H&M account. I think JD Williams ought reasonably to have been aware 
that Mr L might be experiencing difficulties managing his finances  and this it was likely he 
would struggle to repay what he owed on his H&M account in a sustainable way. JD 
Williams is likely to have been  aware that Mr L wasnt managing to repay his Jacamo 
account in a sustainable way or making any significant inroads into his outstanding debt. In 
the circumstances, I think  JD Williams ought reasonably to have concluded it was not 
appropriate to provide  Mr L with the H&M account.
Did JD Williams  act unfairly when it applied  charges  and interest to his Jacamo 
account after the credit facility had been removed?
As Ive explained, I think JD Williams had concerns about the way Mr L was managing his 
Jacamo account which resulted in the credit facility on this account  being removed in April 
Ref: DRN669414542017. It seems that Mr L had been  in arrears  several times in the previous few months  and 
the outstanding balance  on the account was increasing. From what Ive seen, Mr L was not 
managing to meet his minimum monthly  payments on a regular  basis, and he was not 
reducing the balance on his account  in any meaningful way. There  isnt very much  
information about what happened  at the time, but it doesnt seem to me that JD Williams 
tried to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L at the time.  JD Williams  did remove  
the credit  facility from the account, which meant the outstanding balance wouldnt increase 
as a result  of Mr L taking  further credit. But JD Williams continued to add interest  and 
charges to the outstanding balance  even though it would  reasonably  have been aware that 
Mr L had been  experiencing some difficulties with the account  for some time. So it would 
have been difficult  for Mr L to reduce  his outstanding  balance, even though the credit  facility 
had been removed, due to the charges and interest  being applied to his account. 
I think JD Williams ought reasonably to have  realised that by continuing to apply charges 
and interest to Mr Ls account after April 2017, it was potentially increasing his arrears and 
his indebtedness. In the circumstances, I think JD Williams ought reasonably to have frozen 
Mr Ls account when  it decided to remove the credit facility from the account in April 2017.
In summary:
I dont think JD Williams ought  to have provided  Mr L with his H&M account;  and 
I think JD Williams didnt treat Mr L fairly when it continued applying  charges and 
interest to his Jacamo account  after it had removed  the credit  facility in April 2017. 
So JD Williams  should put things right for Mr L.
Putting things  right
Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls Jacamo account
As Ive explained, I think it would  have been fair and reasonable in the circumstances for JD 
Williams to have  frozen this account from the date it removed the credit  facility (which I 
understand to be on or around 4 April 2017). So JD Williams should:
Remove all interest and charges (including any BNPL interest) incurred on the 
account since the credit facility  was removed on or around 4 April 2017.
Re-work the account and calculate  how much  Mr L would have owed after the 
interest and charges  applied after 4 April 2017  have  been  removed.  Any repayments 
made by Mr L since the credit facility was removed should be used to reduce the 
adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance,  then any sums remaining should be refunded  to 
Mr L with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment  to the date of 
settlement.
If after all adjustments have been  made Mr L no longer owes any money,  then all 
adverse information  regarding  the account from 4 April 2017  should be removed from 
his credit file.
If an outstanding  balance remains, then JD Williams should try to arrange  an 
affordable payment  plan with Mr L for the outstanding amount. JD Williams should 
adjust Mr Ls credit file as above once any outstanding balance has been repaid. 
Ref: DRN66941455As it seems that JD Williams sold Mr Ls account  to a third party,  it should work  with 
that third party to achieve what is set out above.
Mr Ls High and Mighty  credit account
In the circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr L to have paid the cash price for 
any goods he has kept. But he has paid interest  and charges on an account that shouldnt 
have been provided to him. So JD Williams should:
Re-work Mr Ls H&M account and remove all interest (including any BNPL interest) 
and charges.
Calculate out how much Mr L would have owed after these adjustments.  Any 
repayments Mr L has made since the account was opened  should be used to reduce 
the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance  any funds  remaining should be refunded to Mr L 
with 8% simple interest* - calculated  from the date of overpayment  to the date of 
settlement.
JD Williams may use the total redress calculated  to repay any principal credit which it 
has written-off.
Any adverse  information regarding this account should be removed from Mr Ls credit 
file.
If after reworking both of Mr Ls credit accounts,  as set out above, there is an 
outstanding credit balance on one or both accounts,  then any leftover redress funds 
that would  otherwise be paid to Mr L from either account, can be used to reduce the 
outstanding balance(s). Any funds that remain after this should then be paid to Mr L.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires JD Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. JD 
Williams must give Mr L a certificate  showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for 
one. If JD Williams intends  to apply the refund  to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint  about  his H&M account and about 
the interest and charges applied to his Jacamo  account. I direct  JD Williams  & Company 
Limited to put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 June  2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6694145