K821x#15complaint
Mr D is complaining that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  trading as 
Audi Finance  wont let him reject a car that he acquired under a hire purchase  agreement.
background
In April 2017 Mr D entered into a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS to acquire a car. He 
says when he picked  the car up the tyre pressure warning light was on. The dealership says 
that it had simply refurbished the alloys  and hadnt  reset the tyre pressure monitoring 
system. Once it reset it, the light went out. But Mr D says that this light and the stability  
control warning light would occasionally come back on again, but then disappear.
Mr D arranged for the car to go back to the dealership for review  in January 2018. Mr D also 
says that the start/stop  function on the car had stopped working at the time. The dealership 
carried out works to the car and says that it test drove the car for 150 miles and it says the 
faults didnt reappear.
In March 2018 Mr D contacted  VWFS to say that the warning lights  were still coming on so 
he wanted to be able to reject  the car. But VWFS didnt think  he had the right to reject it. 
Following this, the car went  back to the dealership who Mr D says replaced  the battery and 
cleaned the earth wires. Mr D says that the dealership said it was hopeful this would resolve  
the issue but it couldnt be sure.
VWFS says that Mr D hasnt shown that the faults  were present at the point of sale.  It also 
says the issue  with the start/stop didnt materialise until 10 months after he received the car. 
And it says that he needs to provide an independent report  to show that there is a fault with 
the car and that it was present at the point of sale to be able to reject it.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019  upholding  the complaint. I said the following:
Mr D acquired the car under a hire purchase  agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)   implies a term into the contract that a car provided 
under a hire purchase agreement must be of satisfactory quality. Mr D says that the car has 
had a number  of faults since VWFS  supplied it, so he doesnt think the car was of 
satisfactory quality. 
Theres no dispute that there have been problems with the car  in particular with the tyre 
pressure and stability control warning lights coming on intermittently since he first acquired  
the car. There also has recently been  an issue with the stop/start  function  in this car. The 
issue here is whether  those problems were likely to have been present or developing at the 
time of sale,  as opposed to natural and inevitable wear and tear in a used car, so as to make 
the car of unsatisfactory quality.  
In this case, Mr D paid around £31,500 for the car. The car was around three years old and 
had travelled 46,000 miles at the point of supply. It seems that Mr D had to take the car to 
the dealership  for repairs on at least four occasions  within the first 12 months of him having 
the car.
When Mr D first collected the car in April 2017, the tyre pressure monitoring system warning 
light was illuminated.  Mr D took the car back to the dealership who said that it had 
Ref: DRN66288452refurbished the alloys before it was supplied to Mr D but it hadnt  reset  the tyre pressure 
monitoring system.  I understand the light went out once  it reset  the system.
Mr D says that over the subsequent few months, the warning light would appear,  but then 
disappear again shortly  afterwards. But in September 2017,  he says the warning light 
appeared to come on more frequently. Mr D said says that he contacted  the dealership then 
but it wasnt able to do any repairs immediately and the car eventually went in for repairs in 
January 2018.  I understand  that the dealership then replaced the brake servo,  bled the 
brake system  and did a software update. However,  this didnt fix the fault,  so Mr D had to 
take the car back  to the dealership for a third time on 22 February 2018.
It appears that the dealership then removed and replaced the ABS unit. It also bled the 
hydraulic brake system.  But Mr D says the fault reappeared again after the car was returned 
to him. And on 14 March  2018, Mr D sent an email  to VWFS saying that he wanted  to reject 
the car. VWFS responded to say that it didnt think he was entitled  to do so. It said that the 
dealership took the car for a long test drive, but the fault didnt appear. So it said that it didnt 
think the fault was present any longer, which meant  that it didnt think Mr D could reject the 
car. 
I acknowledge what VWFS  has said,  but, given it was an intermittent fault,  just because it 
didnt appear on the test drive, doesnt  mean it wasnt there.  Indeed, later that month the 
dealership saw the car again. This time it replaced the battery  and cleaned  some  of the earth 
wires, which I think supports the fact that the dealership  thought there was still an underlying  
issue with the car at the time.
It seems  to me that warning lights, albeit different ones, have been intermittently coming on 
throughout the time Mr D has had the car, despite the number of attempts made to fix it. 
And, I think its most  likely that there  was an underlying  fault with the car causing  this. Given 
how soon after collecting the car the first warning lights came on, I think  its most  likely that 
the issue was present  or developing at the point of sale. Ultimately, Mr D had to take the car 
back to be repaired four times in the first 12 months  of him having the car for an underlying  
fault with the warning  lights/functioning in this car that I think was present or developing at 
the point of sale. All things considered, I dont think a reasonable person would expect there  
to be problems such as Mr D has experienced in a car of this price,  age and mileage.  
I can also see that Mr D did ask to reject the car in March 2018 before VWFS asked the 
dealership to do the final repair.  VWFS  said that he wasnt  able to reject it because the fault 
didnt materialise on the test drive.  But Mr D has been consistent throughout in saying that 
this was an intermittent  fault. So, the fact that the fault didnt materialise during the test drive, 
doesnt mean it wasnt there  merely that it didnt come up at that point. And Im also 
conscious that further work was done  to the wiring after this point. Im persuaded from 
Mr Ds testimony  and VWFSs internal notes that its most likely there the fault was still 
present with the car when  he asked  to reject it in March 2018. 
As I said,  it seems that Mr D had taken the car back to the dealership  on at least three  
occasions, to get the fault fixed  before he asked to reject  it. But I dont think  the repairs  were 
successful. 
I acknowledge that Mr D agreed to the final repair to the car, but I dont think Mr D was given 
any choice other than to do this after VWFS  didnt allow him to reject the car. I can also 
understand why Mr D has lost faith in the car given the number  of times it has been  in for 
Ref: DRN66288453repair. So even though the issue hasnt  re-appeared since  the last repair, I think the fair and 
reasonable thing to do in this case is that VWFS should now allow Mr D to reject the car. 
VWFS should arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr D. It should  also refund the £3,581 
that he paid as a deposit  for the car, plus 8% simple interest per year (less tax if correctly  
deducted) from when he paid it until he gets it back.
I also think that the fact VWFS supplied a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality has caused  
Mr D some amount of distress  and inconvenience. As I said,  Mr D has had to take the car 
back to the garage  on at least four occasions. And I can also see that hes had to contact 
VWFS and the dealership on a number of occasions  to try and resolve this matter. 
Furthermore, Mr D said that he doesnt  have  any faith in the car so hes not used it as much 
as he would like. And Im satisfied that he hasnt  used  it as much since  the final repair as he 
did before  it. So I think  hes has suffered some impaired use since then. Ive weighed  that 
against the fact that he has still been  able to drive the car, it would seem without further 
incident. Taking all of this into account,  I think VWFS should pay Mr D £300  compensation.
Mr D responded to say that hes recently  sold the car as he wasnt confident in driving it 
around. And he said he needed a car he could use daily to drive to work. He says that he 
had to pay an extra £2,173.75 to clear  the finance  which he wants VWFS to refund.
VWFS responded not accepting my provisional decision. It said that the garage who bought 
Mr Ds car has said that there  werent any faults with it and VWFS said that Mr D received 
market value for it. So it still thinks Mr D didnt have the right to reject  the car. But it also 
said, under  the terms of the agreement, Mr D didnt have the right to sell the car. It said,  as 
Mr Ds car vehicle was fault free, it would have  sold it to the retailer at its request for the 
amount outstanding on the finance.  So it says that it wouldnt have the settlement shortfall 
Mr D paid.
VWFS also didnt  agree that Mr D had had a reduced usage of the car. It said the cars 
mileage when he sold it was 59,540  miles in January 2019. It said that the mileage at the 
start was 46,100  miles and Mr D was entitled  to drive 8,000 miles annually  as per his finance 
agreement. As the agreement started  in April 2017,  and given the miles hed already done, it 
thought he was on track to complete the mileage  he said he would complete at the start of 
the agreement.  
It still maintained that it didnt think Mr D had a right to reject  the car. It said the first issues  or 
faults were found  more  than ten months after the point of sale. So it said that theres no 
evidence the faults were  present when  sold. And it said Mr D's complaint should be directed 
to the manufacturer and the supplying dealer if hes unhappy with the cars durability.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken VWFSs comments into account.  I appreciate that VWFS  still doesnt  think  Mr D 
should be allowed  to reject the car. In particular,  Ive taken into account  its comments that no 
fault was found with the car by the purchasing dealer.  But my provisional decision set out 
that the reason I said VWFS should allow Mr D to reject the car was because  he asked to 
reject it in March 2018 before VWFS  asked the dealership  to do the final repair. And my 
Ref: DRN66288454decision was that Mr D should have been allowed  to reject the car at this point,  rather  than 
do a further repair.  But instead VWFS  authorised  further work to the wiring  after this point. 
I remain persuaded from Mr D's testimony and VWFS's internal notes that it's most likely a 
fault was still present  with the car when he asked to reject it in March 2018. And VWFS 
should have allowed him to reject  the car at this point.  It appears that this repair  may have 
rectified the issue, but that doesn't change the fact that he should have been allowed to 
reject it at the time.
I also dont agree that, if Mr D is unhappy  with the durability  of his car, hell need to raise this 
with the supplying dealership or with the manufacturer directly. The CRA says that durability 
is an aspect of the quality of the goods.  Its important  to remember that VWFS supplied the 
car to Mr D and he paid around  £31,500  for it. So VWFS was responsible for the quality of 
the car and he was entitled to expect  the car to be reasonably durable given the price  he 
paid for it. But the car had to go back to the garage for repairs on at least four separate 
occasions in the first 12 months he had it. So I dont  think  it was sufficiently durable. And as 
the supplier of the car, VWFS was required to put this right.  And ultimately, as I said above,  
Mr D has the right to reject it.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I acknowledge that Mr D ultimately  agreed  to the final 
repair to the car, but I don't think he was given any choice other than to do this after VWFS  
didn't allow him to reject the car. So I don't think he should lose his right to reject the car as a 
result of this. I also understand why he'd lost faith in the car given the number of times it has 
been in for repair.  So I can understand why he wanted  to get rid of it. And I still think  this. I 
don't think  Mr D would have looked  to sell the car so early into the finance agreement if it 
hadn't originally  been of unsatisfactory quality. Had VWFS not provided  him with a car which  
wasn't of satisfactory  quality, he wouldn't have been out of pocket in respect to having to 
clear the finance  and also have to pay to take out a new finance.
I acknowledge that Mr D was contractually not entitled to sell the car. But I remain of the 
opinion that the root cause of this is the fact that VWFS sold him a car that wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. And I dont think its fair that Mr D loses  out as a result  of this. So, 
subject to Mr D showing  that he had to pay an additional £2,173.75, VWFS should refund  
this, plus 8% simple interest  per year.
However, Im no longer  persuaded that Mr D has had a reduced usage  of the car. The repair  
invoices Mr D has provided  us for the car show  that hed driven around 7,000 miles in the 
first year hed had it. It seems that hed driven  around a further 5,000 in the next seven 
months hed had it. And I think  his usage  was in line with what  he said he intended to use it 
under the terms  of the policy. Given this, I dont  think  VWFS  needs  to pay Mr D anything  
further.
Ref: DRN66288455my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to do the following:
1.refund  the deposit of £3,581 Mr D paid and the amount that he paid to clear the finance, 
subject to Mr D showing that he had to pay an additional £2,173.75; and
2.pay 8% simple interest per year on the above from when he paid it until he gets it back. If 
it thinks its required to deduct tax from this interest  it should provide Mr D with a 
certificate to confirm how much its taken  off.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6628845