K822xcomplaint
Mr F is unhappy  with Legal and General  Assurance Society Limiteds decision to not pay his
entire claim.
Mr F brings  his complaint through a third party  representative but for simplicity, Ill refer to all
submissions as being made by Mr F personally.
background 
The background to this decision  is set out in my provisional findings  a copy  of which  has 
been attached below.  
Mr F made a claim on his employers  income protection policy. His claim was declined  twice, 
once in December  2017 and again  in April 2018.  L&G declined the claim both times saying 
Mr F didnt  meet the policys definition of incapacitated. L&G eventually accepted Mr Fs 
claim in May 2018 and began making payments. But Mr F said it should  have done this 
much earlier.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Fs complaint  and said L&G should  look to backdate the claim to 
when he was first unable to attend  work  in March 2017. Meaning it should have began  
making payments  to Mr F around eight  months  earlier, in September  2017. L&G didnt  agree  
because it felt there was enough evidence to suggest Mr F was well enough  to return to 
work throughout the period he was off sick.
I agreed with our investigator for mainly  the same  reasons. I also felt it fair for L&G to pay 
Mr F £500 compensation for the overall  trouble and upset caused. I invited both parties to 
respond to my provisional findings.
L&G responded and disagreed with my recommendation. There were a number of reasons 
for this, some of which, Ive summarised below;
L&G highlighted that Id made  an error when quoting part of the occupational 
physicians report. Instead of saying Mr F was not ready for a return to work now, it 
actually suggested  a return to work would benefit his mood;  
L&G doesnt think Mr Fs situation was down to work-related  stress. It recognised  
there was an illness  but it felt that based on the occupational physicians reporting of 
Mr Fs symptoms, it didnt  consider Mr Fs illness was severe enough to preclude a 
return to work at the completion of the deferred period and
L&G is very sympathetic towards  Mr Fs situation and his mental wellbeing.
And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  L&Gs  response  to my provisional findings. But Im still minded to 
uphold Mr Fs complaint. My reasons  for doing  so are mainly similar to those already 
Ref: DRN62940342explained in my earlier decision. However,  I thought it would be helpful to comment  on some  
of the additional arguments made  by L&G.  
Mr F was absent from work since  March  2017.  He was reviewed around two months  
later on 6 June by L&Gs occupational health  nurse who explained  he was unfit for 
work. A second  review was completed  by the occupational physician who suggested 
that generally, people who suffer with depression  benefit from a return  to work, 
however, it was noted in Mr Fs case that this could not happen until his depression 
had been addressed  with psychological support. This report  was concluded by 
saying he would  review  Mr F in a months  time  with the hope that he would have  
undergone some  psychological  treatment  by then.
Mr F wasnt seen  by the occupational physician again until 7 September. He was still 
awaiting psychological treatment.  It was acknowledged that there was a backlog with 
NHS treatment and so little had changed  in terms of his condition,  including his 
readiness for work  and his prognosis. The occupational health physician said Mr F 
was able to meet  with management  at work  to discuss some of his work-related 
issues. But it doesnt say hes ready  to return to work. This chronology  highlights  that 
Mr F was unable  to work  from March   September 2017 owing to his mental health 
problems. 
Im persuaded that this successfully demonstrates  Mr F met the 26 week  deferred 
period, as set out under  his policy, because he was incapacitated for that period of 
time. All reports up until then suggest Mr F must have  his mental health needs met 
through psychological treatment prior to considering  a graded return to work. As this 
had not happened within 26 weeks from his first occasion of absence  in March, Im 
persuaded he satisfied the deferred  period.
February 2018  Mr Fs GP explained  he was still unfit for work despite undergoing 
some psychological  treatment and being on a high dosage of antidepressants. He 
said of Mr Fs mental health  problems  that they continue to impact  his day to day life 
significantly and that he was still awaiting further  treatment. This was two months 
after L&G declined his claim because it didnt  think Mr F was incapacitated  enough.  
In March 2018 the occupational physician reported that Mr F was keen to return  to 
work. I had previously mis-read this report as the physician suggesting that Mr F 
wouldnt benefit from a return  to the workplace. However I also note additional 
comments within the report  which said this was subject to a further  meeting  with the 
management team at Mr Fs place of work. This was because  there  were  some 
recommendations made  that would need  to be discussed prior to Mr F returning to 
work. The physician also highlighted  that these needed to be explored as he had 
significant concerns  about Mr Fs condition deteriorating if these could not be met. 
This is important because it doesnt  suggest Mr F is ready to return to work  at that 
moment. It says he is potentially fit to return to the work environment, as long as he 
has a role which presents a low risk of exacerbating his existing symptoms 
Its unclear whether  this meeting went ahead or whether Mr Fs employer could 
accommodate the recommended reasonable  adjustments. But Im persuaded Mr F 
wouldnt have been able to return to work without them.  The report  also said about 
Mr Fs prognosis  that he would likely need to continue with his medication and 
psychological treatment  for the next three  four months or possibly even longer. And 
given the impact the high dosage medication was having  on Mr F  continued 
Ref: DRN62940343tiredness among other  symptoms described  throughout  this case  I dont think  it 
reasonable to suggest he would have been able to complete the material or 
substantial duties of his role elsewhere  whilst  suffering with his illness.
Mr F was sectioned  under the mental  health act a few weeks later.  I note he didnt  
return to work in between and given it was a concern  of the occupational physicians 
that things could get worse, Im persuaded it was unlikely that Mr F could have 
managed a return to work  even with the recommended reasonable adjustments in 
place. I take at face value that L&G is sympathetic to Mr Fs situation and that it was 
acting on the information given by the occupational physician   which it interpreted 
as Mr F wasnt as incapacitated as hed reported. But I think  theres enough evidence 
to persuade me that Mr F was severely  depressed to the point he was incapacitated 
and unable to work  from the outset. Further, there doesnt  appear to be any specific  
event that triggered  what happened  to Mr F in May 2018. Rather it suggests to me 
that this was a continuation of his poor mental wellbeing  which  was the initial cause 
of his absence  in March 2017.
L&G reviewed Mr Fs claim and accepted  it in May 2018, but I still believe it should have 
began the deferred period from the first occasion  of absence for all the reasons Ive 
explained. Because it didnt do this, it must now backdate his claim as described in my 
provisional decision.  
my final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Legal and General Assurance  
Society Limited must  now;
Backdate Mr Fs claim to 27 March 2017  when he first became unable to work  due to 
his depression and anxiety.  It must  pay him 8% simple interest on the amount owed 
and;
Pay Mr F £500 for the overall trouble and upset  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
[copy of provisional decision]
complaint
Mr F is unhappy with Legal  and General Assurance Society Limiteds  decision to not pay his entire  
claim.
Mr F brings  his complaint through a third party representative but for simplicity, Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mr F personally.
background
Mr F had a group income protection policy through his employer. In March 2017 he became  too 
unwell to work  after a number of experiences  triggered his long term mental  health problems. Mr F 
Ref: DRN62940344lived with depression  and anxiety for a number of years although hed been able to manage this 
effectively through on-going regular  contact  with his GP and prescribed medication.
The issues surrounding Mr Fs down  turn of health were  a combination  of problems at work  and other  
family-related issues. He raised a claim with L&G a few moths later in July as hed not received sick 
pay from his employer and he was aware he had a six month deferred period on his policy. But his 
claim was initially declined in December that year. I note Mr F appealed L&Gs decision  around 
March 2018, only to receive a further decline the following month.
However, Mr Fs health didnt improve  and shortly after, in May 2018,  he was hospitalised  owing to 
his poor mental health.  L&G decided  to approve his claim  shortly afterwards and began  paying him 
income protection benefit from the beginning of May.  But Mr F would like L&G to essentially back 
date his payments to when he was first signed off from work as he considers this to be the 
beginning of his incapacity.
L&G didnt agree. It said there wasnt enough evidence to show that Mr F satisfied its definition  of 
incapacity back  then. It said this was because Mr F was unable to work due to a breakdown in 
relationship with his employer   suggesting that he was suffering from work-
related stress   and that his policy didnt  offer cover  for that.
 
L&G accepted  that things became much worse for Mr F by the end of May 2018 and said that, upon 
reflection, there was enough  evidence to suggest he now met the terms of the policy, namely the 
definition of incapacitated, and that hed satisfied the 26 weeks  deferred period. And so it began  to 
pay him income protection benefit from the beginning of May.
Our investigator thought L&G hadnt treated Mr F fairly. She said it should  have began  the 
deferred period from 26 March 2017  when he was originally  unable to work.  She said it should 
back date Mr Fs claim and pay him the money hes owed, plus 8% simple  interest. But L&G 
disagreed. It gave a number of reasons why, but Ive summaries those I believe to be material to 
the complaint below. L&G said;
  The evidence it relied on to reach its decision suggested there were  times when  Mr F
was well enough to return  to work  highlighting  a number of quotes  from the 
medical reports to help support its position;
   It highlighted a subsequent statement from an occupational physician that it believed 
contradicted an earlier medical report hed authored. L&G believed this was a key piece of 
evidence in our investigators  opinion which was mis-leading and incorrect. L&G said it 
followed the advice in the physicians original report at the time and so said itd be unfair  to 
place more  weight on the amended  comments, mainly  because those comments were  
added retrospectively with the benefit  of hindsight;
   L&G has highlighted that its policy is for a suited occupation  it believed Mr F would  
be have been suited to complete a similar level of occupation  at another  organisation and 
that this point  has been overlooked and;
   L&G raised concerns  about the neutrality of the physicians  reports given he was 
employed by Mr Fs employer as an occupational  health  advisor.
And so its for me to make  a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think L&G has treated  Mr F unfairly  and so 
Ref: DRN62940345Im upholding  his complaint for similar reasons to those  already explained  by our investigator.  But 
there were also some  additional reasons that have led me to this outcome that Id like to explain.
L&G concluded that Mr F was unable  to work in March 2017 due to an on-going work  problem. In 
the evidence Ive seen  it suggested that this caused Mr F significant distress and it was concerned 
that this was perhaps why he didnt  return to work  suggesting there was perhaps a reluctance on 
Mr Fs part because of the work-based issue. But this was at odds with the reasons given on his 
doctors FIT notes as these suggested Mr F was unable  to
work due to depression and anxiety and not work-based stress.  Further,  when  L&G requested Mr 
Fs medical records, it also asked  his GP about the issue at work  and whether  he felt this 
prevented Mr Fs return, but his GP said he was unaware of that being the issue.
I understand  the connection L&G attempted  to make here  it was essentially saying that Mr Fs 
problems were  situational and therefore would have been resolved had he moved away from the 
area of work  where the problems began, or even if hed changed employer.  Had Mr Fs problems 
been down to work-related stress there would have been no provision  of cover for that sort of 
issue. But the problem  I have with L&Gs  position here is that the evidence does not support  its 
theory and so Im not persuaded that it did the right thing.
To give further context,  Mr F experienced some serious problems at work which  understandably 
would have been upsetting for anybody.  This happened  some  five months prior, in November  2016,  
and his first absence due wasnt until March  2017. The workplace issue was resolved, in Mr Fs 
favour, and he was able to continue working  in another area of his organisation. This is important 
because it successfully demonstrates he was able to work for around five months without being  off 
sick from work. And so Im less persuaded by L&Gs suggestion about  Mr F being unable to work 
due to the work-related issue alone.
Further, in the claim form Mr F completed in July 2017, he explained this. He also mentioned, when 
asked about the cause of his illness,  that there were a number of other factors  that affected his 
ability to cope  with his long term mental health issues at the time. These were owing to a 
breakdown of a relationship and two occasions  of family illness. They were also in close succession 
and shortly after the problems  at work and so I think  there  were a number of factors which  
contributed to Mr Fs absence  from work, which happened against the backdrop of an on-going long 
term struggle with depression and anxiety.
Ive not seen  any evidence to suggest Mr F was suffering with work-related  stress like L&G had 
suggested. And so Im satisfied the depression  and anxiety was the reason he was unable  to 
work and that this is covered under his policy.
From March 2017 Mr F was signed off work  with depression and anxiety. His employer supported 
him throughout the time he was away with occupational health  referrals. These  were conducted 
by an occupation health physician who completed a number of reports  on Mr F and regularly 
commented on his readiness to return to work. These reports  were  also shared with L&G but Ive 
not seen many other reports commissioned by L&G.
The reason Ive highlighted this is because L&G raised  some questions about the accuracy  and 
impartiality of occupational health reports completed by Mr Fs employer. Particularly because the 
occupational health physician later clarified  his position on Mr Fs readiness to return to work   
which L&G perceived as a notable change in his original position.
L&G said it was led by the physicians analysis and recommendations, particularly where  it 
believed Mr F was well enough to return to work. L&G said it would not consider backdating Mr Fs 
claim because  it thought  he was well enough to return  to work because  of what the physician had 
said in his some of his medical reports.
To be clear, Ive carefully considered the medical reports and assessments available to me, but 
Ive not seen  anything  that persuades me that Mr F was ready to return to work.
Ref: DRN62940346In June 2017  Mr F had been off work for around three months.  The physicians  report said Mr C 
was unfit for work in any capacity. This was further supported by the only time L&G 
commissioned its own assessment of Mr F  this was completed by its occupational health nurse 
over the phone. The notes  from that conversation also conclude that he was unfit for work owing  
to depression,  anxiety,  sleep deprivation due to poor sleep hygiene, problems with obsessive 
compulsive disorder  and weight loss due to low appetite.
One of the comments made by L&Gs nurse was that his anxiety was such  that he could only 
complete a food shop  during the early hours of the morning because he simply found  it too 
challenging to be around people during  the daytime.
All of this paints a rather different picture to the one where L&G consider Mr F being well enough  to 
return to work  during that time. I note its comments about the medical report  completed some nine 
months later in March  2018  where  the occupational health physician states;
he is potentially fit to return to the work environment, as long as he has a work role which  
presents a low risk of exacerbating existing symptoms
L&G appear  to rely on this statement in isolation to support its decision to decline Mr Fs claim on 
both occasions. But I should highlight there were  other  important  factors within that report  that 
should have been considered alongside that statement. The report also says that Mr F is still in the 
severely depressed range and perhaps most importantly, the physician
does not think a return to work now would  benefit his mood. And so in isolation,  the quote 
highlighted by L&G suggested Mr F would  have perhaps been ready  to return  to work. But in the 
wider context of the report I disagree.
Further, I think L&G should  have questioned this much  sooner than it did. I note the physician did 
clarify his comments later in July 2018. He reaffirmed that at no point during  his investigations did 
he state Mr F was well enough to return to work. And to be clear, Ive
not seen any evidence that persuades me he did either. Rather, I think it was something that was 
discussed but with no real determination of when  Mr F would be ready.
L&Gs position was that it reached  its decision to initially decline Mr Fs claim, and then later pay it, 
fairly, based on the evidence available  to it at the time. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded by this. After  Mr F was taken into hospital in May 2018 L&G changed its position and 
accepted his claim   which I think it should have done from the very beginning in March 2017.  I note 
its reasons for doing so were  due to a deterioration in Mr Fs health.  But I was surprised by L&Gs 
change in position here as only a month before, it said Mr F was well enough to return to work.
The reason Ive mentioned  this is because Im unclear  on L&Gs logic to begin paying his claim  
two months later in May, after having declined his claim a second time the month before,  as 
well as in December 2017. L&G also said Mr F had satisfied the six month deferral  period which 
is why it began making payments when it did.
Given what Ive just explained about  the confusion around satisfying the six month deferral period 
and the other  arguments made by L&G about whether Mr F was eligible for cover,  Ive concluded 
that he should have been entitled to cover  from March 2017.  And therefore Mr F should  have began  
receiving payments from September 2017. I say that because L&G
should have accepted his claim from March 2017 and upon completion of the six months 
deferral period.
I should also say Ive not seen any detailed  or persuasive  evidence that suggests Mr F would  have 
been able to perform his role, or a similar one, at another organisation. All evidence persuades  me 
that he was unable to work due to severe mental health  issues  and these  were further exacerbated 
by L&Gs poor handling  of his claim.  Throughout the
Ref: DRN62940347handling of his claim, L&G was aware Mr F suffered  with suicidal thoughts on a regular basis and 
was deemed a moderate risk to himself and others  as described in his medical reports as early as 
June 2017.
Mr F has explained the severe money problems  hes experienced  because of L&Gs
decision to decline  his claim. Mr F didnt receive  occupational sick pay during that time and so he 
struggled immensely  to make ends meet. At one point in particular, he was close to losing his 
home because he fell behind with his mortgage repayments. This may not have happened had 
L&G accepted  his claim when I believe  it should have and so it should compensate  Mr F for the 
trouble and upset caused.
my provisional  decision
Im planning on upholding Mr Fs complaint for the reasons Ive explained. To put things right
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  must:
    Backdate Mr Fs claim to 27 March  2017 when he became unable to work due to his 
depression and anxiety. It must pay him 8% simple interest  on the amount owed and;
    Pay Mr F £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN6294034