K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2004. The policy  was taken  out at the 
same time as Mrs K applied for an Egg credit card. It gave her accident, sickness  and 
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed so the complaint  was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs K says at no point was it made clear PPI was optional. Ive looked at the PPI 
screen Mrs K wouldve seen during her application  for the credit card.  This gave her 
the options Yes, I want to protect my repayments or No, I understand it is my 
responsibility to keep up my repayments should  I fall ill or lose my job. The options  
were set out with equal prominence. The business  has sent in a copy  of the 
application report for Mrs K. This recorded  the information Mrs K provided during her 
online application, and the choices she made. There is a Y flag for PPI showing 
Mrs K selected the cover  during  the application process.  Overall,  Im satisfied  
Canada Square  Operations made  it clear  to Mrs K that PPI was optional and its most 
likely she chose to take it.
Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K, so it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable  for her. It was up to her to decide, given the other  ways  she 
had to make her repayments if she wasnt working.
 
Its possible Canada Square  Operations didnt give Mrs K all the information  about 
the PPI that she needed before she made  her decision. But it seems Mrs K chose to 
take out the policy and so appears to have wanted  this type of cover. She wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy  was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable. Mrs K was entitled to six months  full pay and six 
months half pay if she was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her 
work benefits and for up to 12 months.  It also gave her up to 12 months  redundancy 
cover. So, on balance, given her circumstances and the policy  terms, I think it 
unlikely Mrs K wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. 
It follows that I dont think Mrs K has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
Ref: DRN67015092my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6701509