K820x#14complaint
Mrs E, on behalf of herself  and the late Mr E, says Nottingham Building Society mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
I hope Mrs E will not be offended or upset that hereon in I will refer to Mr and Mrs E for ease.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs E bought the policy  in 1998 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in-branch.
The policy provided  cover  jointly for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Mr and Mrs Es 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost just over £13 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr E was employed as a logistics  officer for a pharmaceutical company. Mrs E 
told us he was entitled to at least six months sick pay and didnt have any other  means of 
repaying their mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr E was in good health at the time of 
the sale. 
Mrs E was employed as a shipping co-ordinator. She told us she was also entitled to at least  
six months sick pay and also the same  amount  in redundancy pay. She too didnt have any 
other means  of repaying their mortgage  should she be unable to work. Mrs E was also in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
Nottingham Building Society has sent us evidence  to show that the mortgage account closed 
in 2007.
Mr and Mrs Es representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Es representative  says:
Nottingham Building Society failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the 
time. In those circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for 
businesses on handling PPI complaints under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed  Mr 
and Mrs E wouldnt have  taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr 
and Mrs Es representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nottingham Building  
Society should have  told Mr and Mrs E about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN60701692The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nottingham Building  Society  
should have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover  to 
Mr and Mrs E and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a 
claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs E received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs E disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN60701693There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nottingham  Building Society  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the 
ABI Code and these other publications  into account  when deciding,  what is in my opinion,  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nottingham Building Society was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 
as if they were guidance when considering Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nottingham Building Society gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs E with 
reasonable care and skill  in particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or 
suitable for them, given  their needs  and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN60701694-Whether Nottingham Building Society gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and 
timely information to enable them  to make an informed choice about whether to take 
out the policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy  and significant limitations 
and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs E, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs E 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs E 
and Nottingham Building Society, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ive 
set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs E know they had a choice?
Nottingham Building Society had to make  it clear that the PPI policy  was optional. 
Because of the passage of time Nottingham  Building Society doesnt have all of the 
paperwork from the time of the sale. But it has provided us with a copy of Mr and Mrs Es 
mortgage application. Looking at this there  is nothing about  PPI here  so nothing  which  
says or implies that PPI had to be taken out. It seems likely to me therefore  that Mr and Mrs 
E wouldve had to complete a separate application to take out PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs E knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure  theres  not enough 
evidence to persuade me otherwise.. 
did Nottingham Building Society  provide advice?
Nottingham Building Society says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs E said 
they couldnt remember. Looking at what happened when Nottingham Building Society sold 
Mr and Mrs E the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice  Ive not seen anything  
which shows or suggests that it considered  Mr and Mrs Es needs and circumstances and/or 
recommended the cover  as being  right for them.
This means  Nottingham Building  Society didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs E. Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs E were given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if either of 
them was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs E 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
Ref: DRN60701695But the limited  evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Nottingham Building 
Society gave sufficient information  about the actual monthly benefit,  the actual cost or about 
the exclusions or limitations  before  Mr and Mrs E agreed to take out the policy.  
So based  om what Ive seen I dont  think Nottingham Building  Society  gave Mr and Mrs E 
sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable them  to make an informed  choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing their attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Es. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Es representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs E about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs E have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nottingham Building  Society  ought to have 
done either. 
what effect did Nottingham Building Societys  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs E? 
To what extent did Mr and Mrs E suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nottingham Building Society  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this 
policy to Mr and Mrs E. So Ive gone  on to consider  whether  it would be fair and reasonable 
to conclude they suffered loss and damage as a result.
To answer  this, I must decide  whether  or not Mr and Mrs E would have still taken out the 
policy, had Nottingham  Building Society  done things  properly. 
Mr and Mrs E say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN60701696As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs E had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of them being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs E chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs E thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs E have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Nottingham Building  Society  told them  the exact 
premium at the point  they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs 
E would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Nottingham Building Society at the time 
or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs E would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Nottingham  Building Society  made clear exactly  what Mr and 
Mrs E would get back in return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think  its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs Es expectations about  what the policy  would pay in the event  of a claim 
(an amount  sufficient to meet  their mortgage payment) were significantly different to what the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  (based on the available policy document  closest to the 
time of the sale) were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr and Mrs E knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy,  or anything 
theyd seen a doctor  about during the 24 months before the start date (subject to an 
overall time limit); 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs E werent permanent employees; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs E from 
taking out the policy.  
Ref: DRN60701697But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr and Mrs E were eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to them  
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr and Mrs E wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  neither of them 
had any pre-existing medical conditions and they were  both in permanent employment. So, I 
still think they had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs E would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr and Mrs E needed to be unable to do any paid work. I dont 
think this is likely to be too different to what they would have expected to make a claim  I 
think its unlikely they would have thought theyd been able to make a successful claim if 
they were still working.
Nottingham Building Society may not have told Mr and Mrs E that any claim they made  
would be limited to a 12-month period. This may have differed from what  they expected and 
might have hoped for  but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs E would have 
received full sick pay for and their statutory redundancy  entitlement was also significantly 
less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs E would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs E be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Es sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs E would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and/or Mrs E were  made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr 
and Mrs E would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Es representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. 
Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  with 
the approach  I have  taken. 
Ref: DRN60701698Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs E would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Es circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs E found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nottingham Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs E 
compensation, as that would put them  in a better position than they would  have been  in if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs E think Nottingham Building Society misrepresented the 
terms of the policy  in how it described  the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court 
might conclude some of Nottingham  Building Societys statements misrepresented the 
contract, in my opinion the reason why Nottingham Building Society failed to act fairly  and 
reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided   but 
because the overall  information Nottingham  Building  Society  gave Mr and Mrs E, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Es representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Nottingham Building  Society  negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr 
and Mrs E and about the remedy a court might award if it were to find that Nottingham 
Building Society had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt  
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs E in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
Ref: DRN60701699my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E, on behalf  of 
herself and the late Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6070169