K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs unhappy with the way Santander  UK Plc allocated payments  he made into his credit 
card account  and he says the accounts  terms and conditions  werent  made clear to him and 
shouldve been  displayed more prominently.
background
Mr Gs statement dated 7 March 2019 showed a balance owed of about  £6,596.  This 
included a £3,306 balance transfer  at a 0% interest  rate until 30 September 2019.  Mr G says 
he made a payment of £3,195 on 12 March 2019  then carried out a new balance  transfer on 
27 March 2019  of £3,465  at a rate of 1.24%. This was followed by a further payment of 
£3,200 on 29 March 2019.  Hes unhappy that this later payment was applied  to the 0% 
balance transfer  from the previous statement and not the balance  transfer hed just taken out 
at 1.24%.  He thinks the accounts  terms and conditions  werent  made apparent enough  and 
he followed  the information on the reverse of the statements  which says items  with the 
highest interest rate will be paid off first. He thinks  Santander  got things wrong and wants  the 
0% interest rate reinstated on the £3,306 balance transfer.
Santander said in its final response that the information given to Mr G including in the key 
facts explained  how payments would be allocated. A summary of this information also 
appears on the reverse of the statements and refers the customer  to the accounts terms 
and conditions. And it says if the statement balance isnt paid off in full, payments received 
will be applied  to the highest interest bearing transactions  first. And that it would pay off 
balances that are already on the statement first and before any new transactions.  Its 
explained the £3,200  payment  on 29 March  wouldnt have been used to pay off the 27 
March 2019 balance transfer of £3,465  at a rate of 1.24% as it wasnt on the 7 March 
statement.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary she said Mr Gs credit 
card agreement and the reverse of his statement explained how payments would be 
allocated against  transactions shown on the statement.  As the new balance transfer wasnt 
on that statement  Santander acted correctly by applying all payments towards the 
transactions shown  on it. Santander mightve  now decided to add more information onto the 
reverse of its statements but that doesnt  mean  what was said before was unclear. She cant  
ask Santander  to change anything.
Mr G remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says the use of the 
word key  gives  a specific legal meaning to the sentence on the reverse of the statement  
and the contents of the table there. A summary should include all the elements that have a 
material impact.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the conclusions of the investigator.
Santander says the information on how payments  into this type of account are allocated is 
available in the Key Facts document  which explains  if you do not pay off your balan ce in 
full, payme nts we receive are applied to the highest interest bearing transact ions first. We 
will pay off balances that are already on your statemen t before any new transac tions.
Ref: DRN61827342Mr G is unhappy about the information  provided. But the key facts document, which is 
available online,  clearly sets out that if, as in Mr Gs case, the balance isnt paid off in full 
payments will be applied  to the highest interest bearing transactions  first and balances  
already on the statement will be paid off before any new transactions. 
Thats what  happened in Mr Gs case. His statement was dated 7 March  2019 and the 
balance transfer  of 27 March 2019  of £3,465 at a rate of 1.24% obviously didnt show on 
that statement. It was recorded on the next statement  on 5 April 2019.
Mr G is also unhappy with the summary of this information set out on the reverse  of his 
statement. It says If you do not pay off your balance in full, payments we receive  are 
applied to the highest interest bearing  transactions first. For further details, please refer to 
your terms  and conditions ."
Mr G is unhappy about the level of information  provided but I dont  think  its unreasonable for 
the allocation  of payments only to be summarised  in this way. It isnt practical for, or 
reasonable to expect,  Santander to set out in full or great detail all the accounts terms on 
the reverse of the statement.  It is by its very nature just a summary of some  of them.
In addition I think a normal reading  of this sentence  on the reverse of the statement 
reasonably suggests  that it refers to transactions on that particular statement. 
I think Santander did enough to bring  the terms and conditions of the account, including how 
it allocated payments, to Mr Gs attention. And it reasonably  referred him to the full terms 
and conditions. If what it said wasnt clear  Mr G couldve referred to the full terms and 
conditions, contacted Santander or checked  online.
Although I recognise  Mr Gs frustration I think on balance that Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the accounts terms and conditions, by utilising the £3,200 
payment he made on 29 March 2019 to pay off the transactions shown on the 7 March 2019  
statement. Unfortunately  for Mr G that meant  it was used to repay the money owing for the 
previous balance transfer made at the 0% rate and not the most recent balance  transfer  he 
had made  at the rate of 1.24%.
Overall I dont think I can therefore fairly or reasonably  require Santander to reinstate  the 0% 
balance transfer  as Mr G would like. And I dont see any compelling reason to change the 
proposed resolution  of this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6182734