K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven short-term high-cost loans Uncle  Buck provided to Mr K 
between October 2013 and April 2016.  They varied in term from one to three  months. This is 
a summary of Mr Ks lending history from Uncle Buck.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 17/10/2013 25/10/2013 150
2 01/11/2013 25/02/2014 250
3 10/03/2015 29/05/2015 150
4 10/06/2015 28/08/2015 300
5 08/10/2015 31/12/2015 400
6 06/01/2016 31/03/2016 300
7 06/04/2016 - 400
Our first adjudicator upheld Mr Ks complaint in part and thought  loans 6 and 7 shouldnt 
have been given. Uncle Buck accepted  this. However, a second adjudicator reviewed the 
complaint and thought loans from loan 3 onwards shouldnt have been given. Uncle Buck  
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN61726642But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish
whether Mr K could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  defines sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
There was a significant break in Mr Ks borrowing from Uncle Buck. There  was a gap of just 
over 12 months between loans 2 and 3. I think it would have been reasonable for Uncle 
Buck to view that gap as an indication that Mr Ks finances had stabilised after whatever the
circumstances that had caused him to take out his previous loans. So I will look at Mr Ks
borrowing in two separate lending chains. The first chain is made up of loans 1 and 2, and 
the second of loans  3 onwards. 
I agree  with both adjudicators that there  was nothing to indicate  Uncle  Buck needed to do 
more when it approved  loans  1 and 2. It carried out proportionate checks  asking for details of 
Mr Ks income and expenditure and it checked  his credit file. And there was nothing  in the 
information it gathered  that I think should  have  led it to make different  lending decisions. So I 
dont think Uncle Buck was wrong  to give loans 1 and 2 to Mr K.
When Mr K applied  for loan 3 however,  I think  that there were  indications that Mr K was 
having problems  managing his money. This time, from the information it gathered, Uncle  
Buck was aware  that Mr K had at least three outstanding short  term loans. So I think  Uncle 
Buck ought  to have realised there was a risk that loan 3  and any subsequent loans in the 
Ref: DRN61726643short term  were not likely to be sustainably repayable for Mr K. Uncle Buck  points out that 
Mr K repaid  loan 3 in line with the contractual repayment schedule. But he then took out loan 
4 less than two weeks later, and it was for twice the amount of loan 3. So I think its likely  
repaying loan 3 left a gap in his finances and so Mr K had to borrow again, further increasing 
his indebtedness. This suggests  to me Mr K hadnt been able to repay loan 3 in a 
sustainable manner   and it was likely this would be the case  for any subsequent loans in 
the short term. And I think Uncle Buck ought to have realised there was a risk of this from 
the data it gathered when Mr K applied for loan 3. So I think Uncle  Buck was wrong to give 
loans 3 to 5 to Mr K.
  
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Uncle Bucks lending history with Mr K, with a view
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans until there was a significant  gap in lending.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ks case, I think  that this point  was reached at
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Uncle Buck ought to have realised Mr K was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Looking solely  at the second  lending chain, Mr K had been 
indebted to Uncle  Buck  in 10 months out of the previous 11. So Uncle Buck  ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr K was having  to borrow further  to cover 
the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Ks 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. I note Uncle  Bucks  point that there was 
a borrowing gap of 40 days  between loans 4 and 5. But given the overall pattern of 
lending here, I dont see this as long enough for Uncle Buck  to reasonably  argue that 
Mr K wasnt  showing an increasing reliance on its short-term high-cost credit.   
Mr Ks first loan in the second lending chain  was for £150 and loan 6 was for £300. At 
this point Uncle Buck ought to have known  that Mr K was not likely  borrowing to meet 
a temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
From  loan 6 onwards  Mr K was provided  with a new loan within  days of settling a 
previous one. 
Mr K wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle  Buck. Loan 7 was 
taken out 13 months after Mr Ks first loan in the second lending  chain. And it was for 
a larger  amount. Mr K had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt 
to Uncle  Buck over an extended period.
I think that Mr K lost out because Uncle Buck provided loans 6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans were  likely  to have had negative implications on Mr Ks ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 onwards, and Uncle  Buck should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
Ref: DRN61726644refund  all interest and charges Mr K paid on loans 3 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
if it chooses, apply  the refund to any outstanding principal balance on loan 7 before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Mr K**; and
remove any negative information  about loans 3 to 5 from Mr Ks credit file
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from 
Mr Ks credit  file.
I understand Uncle Buck has sold the outstanding debt from loan 7 to a third party so it 
should buy it back before doing what Ive said above. If this isnt possible, Uncle Buck  needs  
to make sure that Mr K has paid or will pay no more in total than the principal amounts he 
was lent. So Uncle Buck should (in addition to the above if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Mr K has already  paid to the third party,  plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
instruct the third party  to remove any information that it may have recorded about the 
loans from Mr Ks credit file.
If Uncle Buck doesnt buy the debt back then it isnt entitled to make any deductions  
from the amount  that it needs to pay Mr K.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck must give 
Mr K a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If Uncle Buck intends to 
apply the refund  to reduce  any outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after taking  the above steps  there is still a principal balance due, I remind  Uncle  Buck of its 
obligation to treat Mr K fairly and reasonably in any settlement discussions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ks complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should pay Mr K compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.  
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6172664