K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained that an appointed representative of TenetConnect Limited mis-sold him 
a Free-Standing  Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan instead of recommending  
he joined  his employers  in-house AVC scheme.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 May 2020. A copy  of this is attached 
and forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I concluded that:
-The adviser wouldnt reasonably have been expected to recommend added  years to 
an investor at the outset of their career; single with a medium attitude to risk. 
-The in-house AVC provider of Mr Js employer (Equitable Life) was already known to 
offer low charges  on its unit-linked  funds, before taking into account the further 
discount likely available as part of a large public sector scheme.
-The adviser didnt  quantify this likely saving in charges compared  with an FSAVC  or 
assess whether the performance potential of the FSAVC justified the higher cost.
-All I could see was that Mr J agreed  to invest in a Skandia FSAVC  instead of, say, a 
National Mutual FSAVC after a quantified comparison of the performance versus  
higher charges which wasnt carried  out for the likely  even  cheaper  in-house AVC.
-The advisers initial discussions with Mr J seemed to focus on the benefits  of an 
FSAVC and didnt  disclose the likely lower charges under the AVC.  
-Regulatory Update 20 (RU20) was published  during  this advice, and the advisers 
late attempt to refer to the AVC charges didnt demonstrate hed complied with the 
Update. So I was going to uphold  the complaint.
-However Mr J had likely obtained some benefit from the greater range of funds over 
the time the FSAVC has been running. So it was open to TenetConnect to establish 
whether, even after the higher  charges, he had benefited from better  overall 
performance and there  was no financial  loss  instead of using the standard  method 
of calculating the loss only due to the difference in charges.
Mr J accepted the provisional decision,  but made  the following points:
Would the ombudsman service be able to check whether  the resulting calculation  
looks reasonable?
He is currently breaching his annual allowance  for his employers pension  and would 
be keen for any reimbursement not to be paid into his pension.
TenetConnect also accepted the provisional decision, confirming that it would use the 
standard charges only method of calculating whether Mr J had suffered a loss. It was not 
interested in pursuing whether Mr J had, in fact, benefited overall as a result of any superior 
performance under the FSAVC.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN66389742Both parties  have accepted my provisional decision. So whilst I can clarify  the points raised, 
I see no reason to depart from the overall findings reached in that decision, which  is 
attached. 
TenetConnect has confirmed that it intends  to calculate redress  as allowed in my provisional 
decision, on a charges  only basis in accordance  with the regulators FSAVC  review 
guidance. 
Data for the CAPS mixed  with property index, which is used to compare the charges, isnt 
available for periods after 1 January 2005. So where the calculation requires ongoing 
charges to be compared after 1 January 2005,  TenetConnect  should  use the CAPS mixed 
with property index  up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE  UK Private  Investor Growth  Total 
Return Index thereafter.
These calculations  require specialist software,  which I expect TenetConnect will either  be 
familiar with or need to engage an external actuary  to calculate. Data  for the CAPS and 
FTSE UK indices is contained in that software,  and TenetConnect (or its actuary) will need to 
input the charges of the FSAVC and AVC plans which it will need to obtain  from the relevant 
providers. Mr J is entitled to see the information  it has used. Whilst we arent able to provide 
a detailed checking service, if Mr J has any questions about  how the calculation works  he is 
welcome to raise them with TenetConnect or this service.
As Mr J has indicated  that he does have  a problem with his annual allowance at the 
moment, this is one of the protection  or allowance implications I allowed for in my 
provisional decision. So in this case,  TenetConnect should pay the compensation directly to 
Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income  tax that would  
otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free so the deduction  
would only be applied  to 75% of the loss, based on Mr Js marginal tax rate in retirement.
 
Mr J will need  to provide  details of his estimated NHS pension at retirement age in order to 
determine whether  hes likely to be a 20% or 40% taxpayer in retirement in respect of the 
band of additional income this loss would have  represented. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint and require TenetConnect Limited to calculate charges only 
compensation and pay this to Mr J as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66389743Provisional decision  of 13 May 2020
background
In 1996 Mr J was single and aged  around 25. He had joined the NHS Pension Scheme one 
year previously. The TenetConnect adviser  carried out a fact find which recorded his attitude  
to risk as 5 on a scale from 1 (low risk) to 10 (high risk).  He wrote to Mr J summarising his 
recommendations for increasing pension provision  in May 1996.  
These were  based on Mr Js aim to have the option to retire  early, at age 50 or 55. He could 
afford to commit £50 net per month.  The adviser listed all three  options,  namely  buying  
added years, in-house AVCs or an FSAVC. He dismissed  added  years on the basis that it 
offers no flexibility whatsoever in the event that Mr J wanted to alter his contributions. 
Regarding the in-house AVC, which was with Equitable Life at that time,  the adviser said 
although it does  flow [sic] charges, its performance in Managed  Funds has been 
substantially bettered  elsewhere and as such I am recommending  FSAVCs *source Micropal 
15/11/95 - Equitable Life fund performance data.
The adviser also suggested that it was worth Mr J paying higher charges than the cheapest  
FSAVC provider to obtain  better performance, based on past statistics. Skandia Life was 
selected for its flexibility as it had the widest range of funds available  from external fund 
managers. The contract was to be written  to age 50 so that there would be no penalty for 
retiring at or after that age.
The original  illustration for Mr Js plan, reflecting his application, had a 25% split across four 
different funds (Fidelity Managed, Foreign  & Colonial  Investment  Trust, Morgan Grenfell 
Managed and INVESCO Perpetual Managed). The maintenance charges, which have 
increased with inflation,  were then about  £30 per year. A bid/offer spread also applied 
(causing a loss of about 5% of each contribution made). The overall  impact  of the charges at 
the time of advice,  including  fund management  charges  and 0.75% per year going to 
Skandia, was estimated on the illustration to be 2.2% per year if retiring at 55.
By 1998 Mr J had switched three of the funds and added another  (Property, Fidelity 
European/Special Situations  and INVESCO  Perpetual High Income).  In 2000 he switched  
the FSAVC into a Technology and Far Eastern fund,  and changed the destination  for his 
future contributions. He then remained largely  in the same funds with the addition of a small 
investment into the Deposit fund and a partial switch into a Pacific  fund in 2007.
Mr Js contributions were made  paid  up in late 2017 with a value  of about £50,000 based on 
about £21,800 of contributions. It was spread across the following  six funds:
-INVESCO Perpetual Pacific - Janus  Henderson Global Technology 
-Fidelity Global Focus - Jupiter  UK Special Situations
-Old Mutual Foundation 4 - Deposit  (only £1,700)
The total expense  ratios (TERs) for the non-deposit funds in 2018 ranged from 0.63% to 
1.38% per year, plus the same 0.75% per year going to Skandia (now Old Mutual Wealth).  
The maintenance charges had increased  to about  £62 per year.
Mr J complained that, if the adviser  recommended additional contributions  at all, in-house 
AVCs or added years would have been  better for him. However he also questioned whether 
it really was necessary  for him to make additional  contributions, as he was given the 
impression that the NHS  scheme  was less beneficial than it actually was. 
Ref: DRN66389744TenetConnect defended the sale of the FSAVC on its merits, as it could demonstrate  that 
both the in-house  AVC scheme and added  years were assessed before recommending the 
FSAVC. The issue of costs for the AVCs  versus FSAVCs was considered and as the 
FSAVCs had a greater potential for growth than the AVCs, this offset the increased charges.
As part of its investigation  Mr J completed  a questionnaire for TenetConnect in which  he 
ranked low administration costs last of four priorities. The highest  were to provide income 
and growth. He considered himself to be a low risk taker at the time of advice, however he 
enclosed a copy of a letter he was sent by another financial adviser in 2014 stating him to be 
adventurous after he had completed a risk profile questionnaire. Mr J says he didnt ask 
that adviser to review  his pension arrangements.
One of our investigators  then considered the merits of the complaint and thought it should 
succeed. In brief, she said:
-It's unlikely that an adviser would have  recommended  Mr J bought added  years  since 
that route would perhaps be more suited to someone with a lower attitude to risk. 
-The contributions Mr J would have had to make to added years  were likely to have 
been more expensive, per year gained, than his payments  to the main scheme. 
-He was also single  at the time and early on in his career,  so it wouldn't have been the 
best option for him to be funding for additional benefits that included a spouse's 
pension, when  money purchase  AVCs would have been more flexible.
-There was no evidence of the advisers analysis that Equitable  Lifes performance in 
managed funds has been  substantially  bettered elsewhere.
-If the higher Skandia product charges, rather than just the fund performance, had 
been taken into account the Equitable  Life performance  wouldnt necessarily have 
looked unfavourable   as the public sector employers  were  in a position  to negotiate 
low charges  for their in-house schemes.
-Superior fund performance couldnt be guaranteed, yet the 2.2% per year loss in 
charges under  the FSAVC was at least double that of a public sector AVC scheme.
-The FSAVC  was not as flexible  as it was portrayed by the adviser given  that Mr J 
would suffer  higher charges for stopping  contributions earlier, which wouldnt happen 
under the in-house scheme.
Our investigator recommended that TenetConnect calculate the difference in charges 
between the FSAVC and in-house  money  purchase  scheme in line with the regulators 
guidance for the industry-wide FSAVC  review.
Mr J didnt object to the investigators  view, but TenetConnect did. It agreed  with the 
investigators conclusions  about added years,  but in respect  of the rest it said:
 
It was clear from the content of the two letters he sent Mr J that the adviser had 
conducted a significant amount of research into the options available  and 
comparative fund performance. At least two discussions then took place.
The adviser gave his source for the research as the Micropal  software tool for 
advisers, taken  from November  1995.
He referred Mr J to the Skandia illustration  and page 13 of the 17-page Skandia 
member guide  for details of the charges.
It was clear from the suitability letter that the advantage of the in-house  scheme  was 
low charges.
It was wrong  to suggest the FSAVC was inflexible as the adviser had written it to age 
50 to avoid early  encashment penalties.
TenetConnect doesnt therefore  agree that the advantages and disadvantages of the 
AVC and FSAVC  werent explained to Mr J.
Ref: DRN66389745As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of the advice TenetConnects adviser  an Independent  Financial Adviser (IFA)   
was bound by the FIMBRA rules,  which had been adopted by its then regulator the Personal 
Investment Authority (PIA). Since 1988 the FIMBRA rules had required an adviser to know 
its client, meaning it should:
-Not make a recommendation unless it believed, having carried out reasonable care 
in forming its belief,  that no transaction in any other such investment (of which  it 
ought reasonably  to be aware) would  be likely  to secure the objectives of the 
consumer more  advantageously, and
-Take reasonable care to include  in any recommendation to a person, other than a 
professional investor, sufficient information  to provide that person with an adequate 
and reasonable basis  for deciding whether to accept the recommendation.
Its my view that in this case, the adviser  did believe that the FSAVC would secure Mr Js 
objectives more  advantageously. But I would question whether that was a belief formed with 
reasonable care, and furthermore I have  concerns  about whether Mr J was given  sufficient 
information to understand  the risks he was accepting in following that recommendation. Ill 
explain why.
Firstly I agree with the investigator that it wasnt  unreasonable for the adviser  in this case  to 
recommend additional pension provision. Mr J was about four years  of service short of the 
maximum in the NHS pension scheme,  even on the basis that he remained there until the 
normal retirement age  and that was before considering the possibility of retiring early. 
Im aware that Mr J has enjoyed above average  earnings increases and is now at risk of 
exceeding the Lifetime Allowance, leading him to question whether he needed this additional  
pension provision. But the imposition  of a Lifetime Allowance (or that it would reduce to as 
little as £1million) wasnt known about at the time of sale.
I further agree with the investigator that the adviser  wouldnt reasonably have been expected 
to recommend added  years to an investor right at the outset of their career,  who was single 
with Mr Js attitude to risk. Whilst there is little other evidence  to substantiate Mr Js attitude  
to risk at that time, it isnt unlikely in my view that he would have had this risk profile for long-
term investment. Looking at the funds he utilised in his pension and his subsequent advisers 
risk rating of him theres little to suggest he had a more cautious outlook than this. And I note 
Mr J hasnt disputed this part of the investigators findings.
The advisers letters explain that he carried out research into the past performance of the in-
house AVC option with Equitable Life. I dont doubt  that this research was carried  out using 
the Micropal software and that there  were  some managed funds  in the marketplace which  
outperformed Equitable  Lifes  managed  fund.  Very few funds can claim to be consistently at 
the top of the charts  over long periods. 
I assume the adviser focused on the managed fund because  of Mr Js medium attitude to 
risk, but this wasnt the only unit-linked fund Equitable  Life offered. It was already known to 
offer low charges  on its unit-linked funds, before taking into account the further economies of 
Ref: DRN66389746scale achieved by contracting to provide an in-house AVC arrangement to one of the largest 
pension schemes  in the country. 
The advisers position as an IFA meant he actually needed to find out the charges applying 
to the in-house  AVC,  quantify the difference with the FSAVC  and consider  if it was likely that 
the FSAVC funds could materially  exceed  this difference on average over the longer term. 
He made  such a comparison between the range of FSAVC providers available, arriving at 
the conclusion  that Skandia  a more  expensive FSAVC provider  was worth paying higher 
charges for because  of its past higher performance.
Yet I cant see that he included the Equitable Life AVC in this comparison as he dismissed it 
on the fund performance  alone, and it isnt even clear whether that comparison took into 
account the additional charges with Skandia   such as the 0.75%pa product charge, 
bid/offer spread or maintenance  charges. I think on balance its unlikely all of these were 
included.
Clearly the aim of the Skandia  proposition was that investors would be willing to pay the 
maintenance and product charges in the hope  of getting superior performance from the 
external fund managers Skandia allowed on its platform. Access  to a greater range of funds 
might have been attractive to Mr J, particularly as greater funds accumulated later on in his 
investment. But TenetConnect still needed  to justify whether it was suitable for Mr J to pay 
these higher charges from the outset,  given that superior performance was not guaranteed.
When he completed TenetConnects questionnaire  recently Mr J ranked income  and growth 
above low charges  but its reasonable to say the growth he was referring  to was the growth 
he would  actually see in the policy. That is, net of charges. 
Weighing all of this up, I think that if TenetConnect had clearly set out how much more 
growth Mr J wouldve had to obtain to offset higher charges in the FSAVC,  before being able 
to benefit from superior performance  - and Mr J then agreed with its recommendation - I 
wouldnt be upholding this complaint. But all I can see is that Mr J agreed to invest  in a 
Skandia FSAVC instead of, say, National Mutual  FSAVC after being given a quantified 
comparison which wasnt carried out for the in-house scheme.  And that in my view left him at 
a material disadvantage.
TenetConnects second letter (the suitability letter with Mr Js copy dated 28 May 1996) also 
contained a rather  significant typo  it said Equitable Life had flow charges  instead of low 
charges. I accept that the letter is intended  as a record of a verbal  discussion when the 
correct term is more  likely to have  been  used, but Im also concerned that this wasnt  the first 
conversation in which the idea of investing an FSAVC was first raised with Mr J.
Another letter sent a few weeks earlier (Mr Js copy is dated  10 May 1996) made no mention 
of the benefits  of the AVC at all. In fact it contained the misleading sentence, The most tax 
efficient and cost effective way of supplementing your NHS pension  is a FSAVC.  That 
wasnt correct on several  counts  higher rate tax relief isnt available  at source under an 
FSAVC and it is not likely to be as cheap  to run as an AVC.
The adviser said in that letter he was now researching which companies would offer Mr J the 
best FSAVC, and left him with FSAVC product literature without mentioning the AVC 
alternative at all. When he met Mr J for a second  time to justify  his recommendation the 
reference to the Equitable Life AVC appears to be an afterthought  and I think  Mr J would 
have been left with the conclusion that Equitable Life was a poor choice without a sound  
basis on which to make his decision. Im not satisfied it was a poor choice when everything, 
including the total impact  of charges, was taken into account.
Ref: DRN66389747It may well be that the late inclusion of the AVC reference was as a result of the PIA 
publishing Regulatory Update  20 (RU20) in May 1996. This reminded IFAs that the 
discussion should specifically include  the difference  in charges and expenses between the 
FSAVC and AVC. Im not satisfied the adviser  in this case  went  far enough to demonstrate  
hed complied with RU20.
But would that have made a difference in this case?  As Ive said above,  I dont  accept Mr J 
was a particularly  cautious investor.  He likely obtained some benefit  from the greater range 
of funds over the time the FSAVC has been  running.  However  Im aware that Equitable  Life 
did offer its own range  of unit-linked  funds,  some of which  had regional concentration, plus a 
with-profits fund which if necessary could be used for further diversification (I note that Mr J 
wasnt averse to investing even some of his money  in a deposit  fund.)
So if TenetConnects adviser had approached this sale openly and fairly in line with what the 
FIMBRA rules  and RU20 expected, I think theres  a significant prospect that Mr J would have  
opted for the Equitable  Life in-house  scheme instead. That doesnt mean its certain that he 
would have done so, but I think its significant enough for me to consider  what detriment has 
been caused and what would be fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
fair compensation
The regulator set out a remedy during the industry-wide FSAVC Review  which  it expected 
would be used for the majority of cases.  It wasnt to put consumers back  precisely in the 
position they would have  been in, had they contributed to the in-house scheme. However  it 
recognised the main  cause of any loss by accumulating  the value  of the higher FSAVC 
charges in line with a neutral benchmark index  the CAPS mixed with property index. 
That index is therefore likely to show an increasing  loss over the years if the in-house AVC 
charges were lower  than Skandias overall  charges (including the fund charges).  However 
the regulator also allowed businesses the right to demonstrate that, even after the higher 
charges, the policyholder had benefited from better  overall performance  and there  was no 
loss1. The investigators  view said that TenetConnect should carry out a calculation in line 
with the FSAVC Review guidance and I see no reason why this part of the same  guidance 
should not be available for TenetConnect to follow if it wishes to do so.
I therefore intend that TenetConnect should  undertake a redress calculation in accordance  
with the regulators  FSAVC review guidance,  incorporating the amendment  below to take 
into account that data for the CAPS mixed  with property index isnt available  for periods 
after 1 January 2005. And with the option  to investigate whether there is, in fact, no loss or a 
lower loss due to the differential fund performance.
In our view the FTSE UK Private  Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges to be compared after 1 January 2005, TenetConnect should  use the CAPS  
mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth  
Total Return Index  thereafter.
If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
1 Financial  Services Authority,  FSAVC  Review, Model Guidance,  paragraph 6.25
Ref: DRN66389748If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free so the deduction would only be applied to 75% of the loss, based  on Mr Js marginal tax 
rate in retirement.
 
Should the calculation identify a loss, it would be reasonable  to expect Mr J to provide 
details of his estimated  NHS pension at retirement  age in order  to determine whether hes 
likely to be a 20% or 40% taxpayer in retirement in respect of the band  of additional income  
this loss would have represented.  
TenetConnect must confirm in response to this provisional decision whether it intends to 
explore whether there  is no loss or a lower  loss, due to the differential fund performance 
after charges between the FSAVC  and AVC. I ask this as it will be necessary to agree 
between the parties  which  in-house  AVC funds were  suitable alternatives  to the funds Mr J 
selected in his FSAVC, in order  to investigate this further. 
If it wishes to do this TenetConnect  would be expected to source the past performance  
information in order to carry out a comparison and present it for Mr Js consideration. It is 
under no obligation to do this if it would prefer to simply calculate  the loss due to charges as 
set out above.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr Js complaint  and require TenetConnect Limited to calculate any 
redress as set out above.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6638974