K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that Barclays  Bank 
UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) sold him in 2004.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 16th August 2019,  where I concluded that I was minded to 
not uphold Mr Bs complaint. I do not intend  to repeat my provisional decision in full here, but 
in summary, I found:
The PPI policy was sold alongside a credit card. Mr B took the policy  out alongside a 
credit card application  taken out in a meeting. He did this in September 2004.
I concluded that Barclaycard gave Mr B a choice to have the policy  and he chose to have 
it with his card.
I thought Barclaycard recommended  the policy to Mr B and the policy was more  likely 
than not suitable for him.
There may have been shortcomings in the way Barclaycard sold the policy. But after 
careful consideration I could  not conclude  that these possible shortcomings  would have  
affected Mr Bs decision to take the policy. 
I was unable to conclude that Mr B would have necessarily declined the policy  if the 
information he had received would  have been any clearer.
Mr Bs complaint was initially upheld  as he had a medical condition  at the time of sale 
and our adjudicator  felt after reviewing the terms of the policy, that it would have  made 
the PPI unsuitable for him. But Mr B has told our service that the condition didnt affect 
him day to day, so I felt the policy  was a suitable recommendation for him and that he 
would have had some need  for the cover provided. So I didnt uphold  his complaint and 
asked him and Barclaycard if they had any further comments  before  I issue a final 
decision.
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr B has not responded and so I have  no further 
information to consider.  Barclaycard has also not put forward  any further information.
As neither party has raised any further  points,  I see no reason to depart from my conclusion  
given within  the provisional decision.  So I conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do 
not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and I do not make any award  
against Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Ref: DRN65749462Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6574946