K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that a car he financed  through an agreement with Blue Motor Finance  Ltd 
(BMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr G took receipt of a used car in June 2018.  He Financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF. At the point of supply the car had completed  78,700  miles and was 
eight years old.
But within three days of collecting  the car Mr G had experienced several problems: 
the air conditioning wasnt  working
there was a padlock on the spare wheel and no key to open it
a noise coming from the brakes
a knocking  sound from underneath  the car
the gear knob  came  off
roadside assistance was called  when a loose spark plug shot out and damaged the 
spark plug casing
Mr G told the dealership he wanted  to reject the car. He told BMF the same  thing  on 13 July 
within a month of him taking receipt  of the vehicle.  
There have been  additional problems since that time. In October the cabin  fan shorted and 
was replaced. The track  rod end was shown to be bent and Mr G says it was creating tyre 
wear. An investigation  into the brakes  in October  showed the front callipers to be seized, the 
brake pads  completely worn and the discs damaged from excessive heat.  The garage said 
the wear was a year old.
BMF wouldnt allow  Mr G to reject  the vehicle as they said there was no proof  the damage 
he was complaining of had been there at the point  of supply: when they were responsible for 
the condition of the car.
So Mr G referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He 
said that as the issues  had happened in the first six months of ownership and BMF hadnt 
provided evidence  to show the issues werent  present at the point of sale, he was persuaded 
that they were. Especially, he said, because Mr G had covered so few miles in the vehicle. 
So he thought it was fair to uphold Mr Gs complaint and tell the company to pay Mr G £200  
to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience the matter  had caused him. He also 
thought it was fair to ask them to refund the £1,554.46 Mr G had spent repairing the faults.
BMF didnt agree with the adjudicators view. They said an inspection  of the car had been 
completed before it was supplied to Mr G and no faults were  noted and they said the MOT  
completed two months later also showed  no faults.  So they didnt believe any existed at the 
point of supply.  Mr G also disagreed with the adjudicators view. He said hed spent a lot of 
money financing  a car that was substandard and he thought £200 was meagre 
compensation. He said hed had to get frequent taxis and this whole issue had been 
stressful.
So the complaint has been referred for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN65017652my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF are 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
BMF to put this right. 
But BMFs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Wed usually assume that if a car developed a fault in the first six months it was likely to 
have been there from the point of supply  but if it happened after that wed usually  look to the 
consumer to prove this was the case.
But here I am persuaded that there  was a fault with the car within  the first three  days and 
that Mr G complained to the dealership and subsequently to BMF, within  the thirty day 
cooling off period. He said there were faults concerning all of the bullet pointed items Ive 
listed in the background and at least one of these items was supported by a roadside  
assistance report. 
Im not persuaded that the pre-delivery inspection suggests these  faults werent present. The 
spark plug issue alone would have been enough to merit rejection of the car within  the first 
30 days and I think its likely this wouldnt have been picked up during the inspection.
Whilst the car had completed a reasonable mileage since first registered in 2010, I dont 
think a reasonable  person would think the issues Mr G complained of should be expected on 
a car of this age and mileage. 
Mr G didnt ask BMF  to repair the fault at that time.  Its clear  that he wanted to be allowed to 
reject the car and I think  BMF should  have allowed him to invoke his short term right to do 
so. 
The subsequent problems identified in October were within the first six months and would 
again suggest this car was not of a satisfactory  quality  when  received. BMF have not 
provided an independent engineers assessment to dispute that the faults in October were 
present at the point of supply and, given the fact they happened so shortly after inception  of 
the deal, I think  its reasonable to suggest  they were developing at that point. 
Ref: DRN65017653I accept that brake problems are usually related to wear and tear but I think the comments  
from the dealership  are clear here. The inference  is that its most likely  the braking problems 
were developing when  Mr G took receipt of the car.
Considering all aspects  of this case I think there is evidence  that Mr Gs car experienced 
problems within the first 30 days and as a result I think it would be reasonable for BMF to 
take the car back  and terminate Mr Gs finance agreement.  This issue  has evidently been 
distressing for Mr G. So in those  circumstances I think that BMF should provide some 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this has caused.  But I dont think this 
should be more  than the adjudicator suggested and Im persuaded that, In the 
circumstances, £200 would be reasonable.
Mr G has also had to get issues repaired and I dont think  that would have been necessary if 
BMF had accepted  the car back  when  they shouldve done: within the first 30 days.  So I also 
agree that they should refund the £1,554.46  repair costs that Mr G has evidenced  to us.
Ive also considered whether BMF should  refund any of the finance  instalments Mr G has 
been paying in recognition of his lack of use of the vehicle.  
Mr G told us he took the car off the road on 8 August  2018  but its clear  he has been driving 
it since that time as the mileage has increased quite significantly. So I dont think theres 
evidence to suggest BMF should make an additional payment for loss of use in these 
circumstances as I cant be sure the car wasnt used.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to:
allow Mr G to reject the car and end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr G
pay Mr G £200  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced as a result of these issues
reimburse Mr G for the repairs  carried out at a cost of £1,554.56
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6501765