K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society opened an account for him with a 
promotional rate of interest but later removed this rate. To settle matters hed like Nationwide 
to pay interest at the promotional rate.
He also complains that Nationwide contacted credit reference agencies  and hed like these 
markers removed from his credit file.
background
In January 2019 Mr B opened  a FlexDirect  account online. He thought  the account would 
pay 5% interest for twelve months. He discovered  that Nationwide had paid interest at 5% 
until March 2019.  But when he checked  his account at the end of April 2019  he found  the 
interest rate had been reduced  to 1%.
He thinks the reduction in interest is unfair. He wants  Nationwide  to pay him interest at 5% 
for the remainder of the twelve  month period. And he wants  any record  of his Nationwide 
account removed  from his credit file.
Mr B complained to Nationwide but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said that because hed 
previously held a FlexDirect account  he wasnt eligible for the 5% introductory rate. 
However, due to a systems error his account  was incorrectly opened and introductory rate 
was incorrectly applied.  Nationwide agreed that Mr B could  keep the interest hed already 
earned at 5%.
Unhappy with Nationwides response  he referred  his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld.  He noted that 
Nationwides systems error  allowed Mr B to benefit  from a higher rate of interest  than he 
was eligible for. Nationwide had agreed that Mr B could keep the interest itd already paid to 
him at 5%, so he didnt recommend that Nationwide needed to pay any further interest.
The investigator noted that Nationwide  had a duty to accurately report  to credit  reference 
agencies applications  for an account.  He hadnt seen anything to show that Nationwide 
had incorrectly reported anything to credit reference agencies or that Mr Bs credit rating 
had been affected so he wouldnt be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
Mr B disagrees with the investigators view, so hes asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary  hes concerned with the following:
he says he asked  Nationwide  to close his account in May 2019 but his account 
statements for July and August show it remained open. This shows  
Nationwide doesnt act on customers instructions.
Nationwide admitted its error so he feels hes been treated unfairly as his 
account shouldnt  have been opened  in the first place.
Nationwides terms and conditions  were changed only after hed closed his 
previous accounts  - so we should obtain  the terms and conditions that applied  
when his last FlexDirect account was closed.
he wants to know why Nationwide  wont remove  the footprint  of searches from 
his credit file and why the investigator  is unable  to tell him whether or not his 
credit rating has been affected.
Ref: DRN63578922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide explained  in its final response  letter that in early 2018  it made  a decision to 
remove the introductory rate on its FlexDirect account for members  whod previously 
benefitted from this type of account.  I dont agree that Nationwides updated  terms and 
conditions shouldnt apply  because they were  changed after hed closed his last FlexDirect 
account in October  2017.
I say this because  he opened his new account  after the date the terms and conditions  were 
updated by Nationwide in early 2018  - so Im satisfied the updated terms and conditions 
applied to accounts opened after this date. And the terms and conditions that applied to the 
account Mr B closed in October 2017  allowed Nationwide to make changes  to its terms and 
conditions  as it did in early 2018.  So Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt treated Mr B unfairly.
Nationwide has provided information to show Mr B previously held three Nationwide  
FlexDirect accounts. So Im satisfied  this meant Mr B wasnt  eligible for the promotional rate 
of interest in accordance with the eligibility criteria for the account that Nationwide  included  
on its website and in the terms and conditions  of the account.
Nationwide accepts it made a mistake  when a systems error meant Mr Bs account was 
opened with the promotional rate of interest when it shouldnt have been. When  Nationwide  
became aware  of this it reduced  the rate of interest from 5% to 1%. Im satisfied Nationwide 
acted fairly  because  as Ive explained  above   in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account Mr B wasnt eligible for the promotional rate because hed 
previously held a FlexDirect account.  Nationwide has agreed Mr B can keep the interest 
already paid to him at 5% which I consider fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It follows  that 
I wont be asking Nationwide to pay any further  interest to Mr B.
Our investigator invited  Mr B to provide a copy of his credit report  to show the information 
hed like removing from his credit  file. Mr B hasnt  provided this to us: hes concerned  that 
the supplier requires him to provide confidential information before providing  the report. This 
isnt something Mr B wants to do. The investigator has explained that were unable  to obtain 
a copy of Mr Bs credit  report for him and we cant require him to obtain  his credit report  if he 
doesnt want to. But this means Im not able to consider whether inaccurate information has 
been recorded by Nationwide.
Its not unusual  for a business to conduct  a search  of an applicants credit file before opening 
an account. And this is something Nationwide explained it would do in the online application 
form Mr B completed. The online application  form says: 
Once you click continue, well send the information  youve  given us on to credit reference 
agencies who will check this, along with your credit rating.
It also says: These checks are part of most  application processes  however, they will leave 
a record on your credit file that other  lenders can see. This might  affect  your ability  to get 
credit elsewhere for a short while.
I cant say Nationwide  has acted  unfairly  in undertaking such searches because  it made  
clear it would do so on the online application form. It follows  that it wouldnt be fair for me to 
ask Nationwide  to remove any footprint  of the searches  it did. Nationwide  is also required to 
Ref: DRN63578923report to credit reference agencies the way an account has been  managed  so it wouldnt  be 
fair for me to ask it remove this information  either.
Mr B also complains that Nationwide didnt  close  his account after hed asked for this to be 
done. The investigator has explained  that as this is a new issue which wasnt part of his 
original complaint to Nationwide he will need  to raise this with Nationwide  first and give it the 
chance to investigate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6357892