K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that following an account switch to a new bank American  Express  Services 
Europe Limited didnt set up his new direct debit correctly. This meant he incurred interest  
charges and had adverse information recorded  on his credit  file. 
background
Mr C changed his bank  account in May 2018. At this time American Express had already 
raised the payment request under his old bank details. The direct debit was returned  unpaid 
as it been cancelled. Around  the same time American Express  received new instructions but 
these werent enabled.  
Mr C made  manual payments in May, June and July 2018. But he incurred  interest charges 
and had adverse  information recorded  against  his credit history.  Mr C complained  to his new 
bank, who conducted  the switch. It investigated but didnt think it had done anything  wrong   
but it did credit his current account  with £41 representing the interest  he had incurred and 
£50 to cover  call costs. 
Mr C complained to American  Express and when he didnt get a response complained again. 
He was unhappy not only because of the direct  debit not collecting but also with the service 
provided in trying to establish what happened  and his complaint not being  acknowledged. 
American Express upheld  his complaint. Although it said it wasnt  clear it had done anything  
wrong, it agreed it should have actioned the new direct debit. It also agreed  that it hadnt  
provided good customer service. To put matters right it refunded the interest charged of £41 
and offered 12,500 reward points. It also arranged for his credit  file to be amended. 
Not happy with that Mr C asked  us to look into the complaint. When  sending  its file American 
Express explained Mr C hadnt been  given 12,500 reward  points  as his account was a cash  
back account. Instead it had credited his account  with £125. Our investigator  was satisfied 
American Express had fairly  resolved the complaint. 
Mr C has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, he didnt think  
the apology, the credit file amendment or £125  sufficient to compensate  him for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused. Hes drawn  comparisons with a published case  study where an 
ombudsman awarded  substantially more where an account switch hadnt  been completed 
properly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its common ground that American Express didnt act on the new direct details when it ought 
to have done.  It also accepted the service  it had provided hadnt been acceptable. So I dont 
need to reach any findings about  these matters.  What is left for me to decide is whether the 
actions taken by American Express are sufficient to put this right. 
American Express arranged for the interest  Mr C had incurred to be refunded.  Had the direct  
debit details been set up correctly, its likely this charge wouldnt have been made. So I think 
refunding the interest is fair. However, Im also aware that Mr C had already been  
compensated for this interest charge  by his new bank  so he has actually been refunded 
Ref: DRN65171202this amount twice.  Had American Express not already  refunded this amount, I wouldnt have 
it asked it to do so, as Mr C had already received that compensation from his bank. 
American Express also amended Mr Cs credit file. Again, had things not gone  wrong,  its 
unlikely any adverse information would  have been recorded. I do understand how worrying  it 
is to have incorrect information recorded  on a credit file. But once American Express was 
made aware  of this it took steps  to rectify the matter  in a relatively short  period of time. Mr C 
hasnt provided  any evidence to show that during  the time he had adverse information 
recorded, it had had any material affect on credit  applications or credit searches. 
Mr C has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of this matter.  When making 
an award for distress  and/or inconvenience I need  to take into account the impact the act or 
omission had. This is an individual  consideration in each case we investigate.
I have considered the case  study  Mr C has cited in support of a higher compensation award. 
But Im not persuaded the two are similar.  The case study  concerns a complaint against a 
bank carrying out the switching service.   It also concerned a number  of failed switches,  
including repayments  to a mortgage  and payments to utility companies   each of which 
could have serious consequences. Im not persuaded Mr Cs situation is comparable.  His 
complaint is against  American Express involving a single direct debit, not multiple payments 
to a number of different institutions.  
I do accept this has caused him worry and inconvenience in finding  out what  happened.  So 
its right he is compensated for that. In all the circumstances, I am satisfied £125, in addition 
to what else American Express has done  to put this right,  is a fair reflection of the distress 
and inconvenience  caused. This means  I wont be making any additional  award against 
American Express. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited 
has already fairly resolved this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6517120