K820x#14Complaint
In May 2017  Mr B took out an instalment loan with CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Pounds 
to Pocket  (CEN). He has complained that the loan was irresponsibly lent. He has also 
complained that CEN did not treat him fairly and failed  to make reasonable adjustments for 
his medical conditions and disorders.
Mr C is bringing  the complaint on Mr Bs behalf.  
Background
In May 2017, Mr B borrowed £500 from CEN payable  over 12 monthly instalments of around  
£79. Mr B paid the first three  instalments. He then refinanced the loan in August 2017, with 
additional borrowing  of £350. The new 12 month  agreement had payments of around  £120. 
This extended the due date from April 2018 to July 2018. The first payment was due on 31 
August 2017 but no payments were ever made. 
A number  of calls (appendix summary  at the end of this decision) between the parties took 
place between 2 September 2017  and 13 December  2107. Mr C raised  a formal complaint 
on behalf of Mr B.
CEN did not agree the loan and additional borrowing had been lent irresponsibly.
Our adjudicator concluded that CEN was not wrong  to lend to Mr B. He said that because  
these were Mr Bs first instances of borrowing with CEN, it was not unreasonable for CEN to 
rely on the information Mr B provided about his income (£1,200) and expenses  (£525). 
Based on the monthly repayments,  the loans would have appeared affordable  to CEN. He 
also concluded that Mr B had not mentioned his health conditions during any of the calls and 
he didnt think he had been treated unfairly.
Mr B accepted the adjudicators conclusions  about  Mr Bs irresponsible  lending complaint. 
However, he did not agree about the way Mr B had been treated. He said there were a 
number of calls which caused Mr B a great deal of stress,  the most severe being in 
December 2017.  
I issued my provisional decision on 26 July 2019  explaining why I was thinking of reaching a 
different conclusion to the adjudicator and upholding Mr Bs complaint in relation to how he 
was treated by CEN.
Ref: DRN60959352Mr B has accepted my provisional decision.  CEN did not agree. It said: 
During the final call on 17 December 2017,  the representative attempted to gain 
additional information as to the nature of the third party representative  to ensure they 
were acting  in Mr Bs best interests. As Mr C seemed to be directing  Mr B, the 
representative needed to determine whether  this was the best course of action.
As it had not been more than eight  weeks since the complaint had been filed,  it does 
not agree  its fair to conclude  the complaint was not dealt with.
Mr C was initially given incorrect information about Mr B needing to file that complaint 
himself. However this was rectified  and the complaint reviewed ahead of schedule.
On this basis it believes £50 is fair and £150  seems disproportionate as the 
misunderstanding was rectified on the same day in the same phone call.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. For completeness,  I have set my provisional  decision out below and addressed CENs 
arguments within it to form my final decision.
It is disappointing that CEN did not provide us with all the necessary calls during  our initial  
investigation. Not only is it disappointing, but it is a serious matter to withhold evidence from 
this service. Were not the regulator  of the industry   thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). But I can - and will - raise  relevant  concerns about  a lenders behaviour  with 
the FCA if I feel its appropriate to do so. However, any investigation it carries out is not 
shared with us or the consumer.
I understand that Mr B now has the relevant  call recordings. I gave both parties  the 
opportunity to provide me with all the calls and any other evidence before reaching my final 
decision and I received no further  calls.  I have listed the calls that CEN has provided  at the 
end of the decision. 
If CEN was aware that Mr B had a number of medical conditions then clearly  its reasonable 
that it adjusts its communications accordingly.  Having listened to the calls available  to me, it 
wasnt evident to me that either  Mr B or Mr C ever specifically  mentioned  Mr Bs medial 
conditions and disorders  until Mr C raised a formal complaint during the third of three phone  
calls that took place on 13 December 2017.  
I am concerned though, that during that call on 13 December 2017, Mr B asked the call 
handler if Mr C could  speak on his behalf because  he could explain the situation  better  than 
himself. Shortly  after,  the call handler  asked; what is the reason for placing Mr C on the 
phone? Mr B gave an explanation about  the situation and then again said that Mr C would 
be able to explain things  better. The call handler  continued to ask Mr B questions about  his 
employment status. Even when Mr B explains he has a disability so Mr C would like to speak 
on his behalf;  the call handler  continued to ask Mr B direct questions.
Ref: DRN60959353I dont agree the representative was obtaining  additional information  as to the nature of the 
third party; he was directing questions about  Mr Bs situation and the purpose of his call. 
Mr B had made three  requests to the representative for Mr C to deal with the call because  
he could explain things  better. It was only on the fourth attempt that Mr C can be heard in 
the background directing Mr B. It was at this point Mr B explains he has a disability and still 
the representative continues to talk to Mr B about his unemployment and the hardship status 
of the account.  So a fifth request is made.
Mr C then makes  it clear  that Mr B wants to raise a formal complaint and there  is a long 
delay before being passed to a second  call handler. During this second part of the call, Mr C 
clearly explains that one of Mr Bs conditions is brought on by being put under pressure or 
having to deal with situations out of the ordinary. Mr C also explains Mr Bs other conditions 
means he is unable  to deal with a call of this nature. At the end of this call, Mr C is told that 
they would  receive  confirmation that the complaint had been filed later that day; which  I 
understand they did.
However, when Mr C calls back on 18 January 2018  to find out what  has happened with the 
complaint, it doesnt  appear that the complaint has been dealt with. I accept that this was 
within the eight  weeks CEN is allowed to investigate  a complaint. But that fact that the call 
handler insists that Mr B needs to make  the complaint  certainly suggests to me that 
nothing had happened in relation to the complaint  at that point. 
In any event, I think given  the previous conversations,  CEN ought to have made sure its call 
handlers were aware a complaint  had already been registered but also that Mr B was not in 
a position to deal with the matter for the reasons clearly outlined in the previous call.
In light of CENs comments  and objections, I have reconsidered the trouble  and upset 
caused to Mr B. Assessing trouble and upset is very subjective and awards  of this nature are 
not intended to punish a business but to compensate  for the distress  caused by its actions or 
lack of. Weve set out on our website how we determine such  awards  and £150 is at the 
moderate end. Ive reconsidered  the impact the matter has had on Mr B and in view of the 
circumstances in this particular case;  I still believe an award of £150 is appropriate. 
my final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading 
as Pounds to Pocket  to pay him £150 for trouble and upset as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN60959354appendix: summary of telephone calls
Date of call summary
2 September 2017 Outgoing call from CEN regarding payment
16 September 2017 Incoming call from Mr B about  his job and agreeing a Debt  
Management Plan (DMP)
17 September 2017 Outgoing call regarding  payment
18 September 2017 Incoming call regarding  DMP  reference
6 November 2017 Incoming call DMP paperwork  and email about upfront payment
17 December 2017 Outgoing call DMP removed due to no payment
17 December 2017 Incoming call waiting  for DMP  paperwork
17 December 2017 Incoming call formal complaint
18 January 2018 Incoming call chasing complaint
12 July 2018 Incoming call requesting  all calls
Ref: DRN6095935