K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms Cs complaint concerns a whole of life policy sold to them  by a predecessor  
business of Phoenix  Life Limited. Theyre unhappy  the level of cover provided  by the policy  
has significantly reduced. They feel this is a consequence of the costs  associated with the 
policy and the poor management of the associated investment fund.
background
The policy was taken  out in 1983.  It initially provided  £87,000 of cover for a monthly premium  
of just over £23. This was set up to increase  annually by 10% over the first five years,  to just 
over £35, which has been the regular monthly premium since 1988. 
The policy has been reviewed on a number of occasions since  its 10-year anniversary in 
1993, with the sum assured being reduced each time, to a level of just over £16,000  in 2018 
 the point at which  Mr C and Ms C made  their complaint. 
Phoenix Life considered  the matter and explained that it felt the part of the complaint 
concerning the reduction in the level of cover had been brought too late. This was because 
Mr C and Ms C wouldve have been  aware that the cover was reducing  when review 
information was received,  as early as 1993 but certainly by 2003, by which  point it was only 
just over £21,000. In respect of the management  of the investment  element of the policy, 
Phoenix Life didnt  feel that it had done anything wrong.
Our adjudicator broadly agreed with Phoenix  Lifes view of the matter.  Mr C and Ms C did 
not. They said that theyd been  led to believe that the policy would always  provide life cover  
of £87,000 and when the level fell below this they assumed it was due to investment 
performance that would  eventually  improve. 
They highlighted the growth in the value of the stockmarket over the 35 years  the policy had 
been in operation and how the disparity between this and the value of the policy suggested it 
must have  been  mismanaged. They  also felt that the original illustration  for the policy was an 
important document  that would have confirmed what they were saying. They added that they 
had concerns about the level of commission paid that wouldve also impacted on the value of 
the policy. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review. 
my provisional view
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained that I agreed that the part of the 
complaint concerning the policy reviews and investment performance had been  referred  too 
late. I thought  that when the sum assured had dropped  to just over £21,000  by 2003, a 
reduction of this scale was such that Mr C and Ms C ought  reasonably  to have questioned 
whether there might be something wrong  with the policy. 
In response, they reiterated their view that they assumed the situation would recover. And 
they highlighted that they hadnt then received any further communication  from Phoenix Life 
until 2018. They also challenged the claim that they wouldve known that the first review,  
after 10 years, was likely to lead to a reduction  in the sum assured.
Ref: DRN68431282Ive considered these  comments  but my view remains that the part of the complaint 
concerning the reduction in the sum assured has been brought too late. And Ive seen no 
evidence of any exceptional circumstances that might have caused a delay  in referring the 
complaint. 
In my provisional decision I also looked at the merits of the part of the complaint concerning 
the management of the policys investment element.  I said;  
Mr C and Ms Cs complaint  has also been  driven by the policy value information given to 
them with the 2018 review  letter. This showed  the policy to have a surrender value  as 
opposed to the sum assured payable on death   of just over £11,000. 
They feel this indicates that the managed  fund in which their premiums have been invested  
must have  been  mismanaged. And that the surrender value has also been impacted by the 
administrative costs of the policy, the cost of providing life cover and the payment of 
commission.  
Ive looked carefully  at each of these issues but am unable to conclude that Phoenix Life has 
done anything  wrong. 
Mr C and Ms C have  paid around  £14,500 in premiums over the course of the 35 years  
during which  the policys  been in operation. Theres been some deductions for costs,  which  
although the original documentation  isnt available (which is not surprising given  when the 
policy was sold) Ive no reason to think have been applied  incorrectly. Theres been 
deductions for the cost of life cover  of around  £8,600  again, an amount  that doesnt  strike 
me as obviously unreasonable given the length of time during which  the policys  been  
providing life cover.  
In respect of any commission, Phoenix  Life has confirmed  that the payment was made  
directly by the original  business to the adviser  and wasnt deducted from the premiums  paid 
by Mr C and Ms C, which would be the normal arrangement  for policies sold at this time. 
So, in all the circumstances,  I cant see that Phoenix  Life has acted incorrectly.  I can 
appreciate that Mr and Ms C may be disappointed  that the policy hasnt attained  a greater  
value after such a long time. But the policy was never intended as an investment or savings 
vehicle. It was an insurance product that has used  an investment element to provide flexible 
life cover over a 35 year period.
Mr C and Ms C didnt  specifically comment on this issue beyond noting  that the only variable 
ever referred to at the time of the sale was the value of the underlying investments. As 
noted, their response  to my provisional decision  dealt primarily with the other issue  of the 
policy reviews.     
my findings
Ive considered all the information provided  by both parties to decide which  parts of this 
complaint we can look at. And, as noted, my view remains that the part concerning  the 
reduction in the sum assured has been  brought too late.
Ive also considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  the further  
submissions, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the part of the 
complaint concerning the management of the investment  element of the policy.  Having done 
Ref: DRN68431283so, Ive not been persuaded  to depart from my original conclusion that, as explained above, 
Phoenix Life has not acted incorrectly or unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
James Harris  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6843128