K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that a payment into his Nationwide Building Society ISA was rejected  and 
that he was given poor customer  service. He also complains about its handling of his 
complaint. 
background 
After asking Nationwide staff at his local branch what information was needed,  on 
3 April 2018 Mr M attempted  to transfer £20,000  into his Nationwide  ISA. 
Unfortunately the payment was rejected by Nationwide.  So the deadline for ISA contributions 
for the year ending  5 April 2018  was missed.  On 9 April 2018 Mr M says a complaint  was 
made online about this. 
When he hadnt heard  anything  back about  his complaint, on 8 June 2018 Mr M went into his 
local branch and spoke with one of the staff members hed dealt with on 3 April.  There  is 
some disagreement  as to what  was said both in branch and over the telephone between 
8 and 11 June.  As the calls originated  in the branch it was not possible to get a recording of 
them. 
But both Nationwide  and Mr M agree  that he was told that the complaint made on 9 April 
hadnt been received. On 8 June  the staff member,  and then over the next few days,  the 
branch manager,  tried to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  But Mr M didnt think  it was appropriate 
that the staff member  who hed dealt with on 3 April handle his complaint as he was unhappy 
about the service  hed received. He told the branch manager hed sent a written  complaint to 
head office. 
The staff member he dealt with on 3 April and 8 June recalls  telling  Mr M on 8 June that 
perhaps the reason the ISA contribution had been rejected was that an ISA renewal wasnt 
completed. But when the branch manager wrote to Mr M in response  to his complaint  the 
manager said that the bank Mr M was transferring the money  from should  have told him that 
the money would  take 3-5 days to transfer. He was unable to agree the branch had acted 
incorrectly as the sending bank shouldve advised  of the correct time scale.  
He said hed been unable to determine why the 9 April complaint wasnt logged,  but it was 
likely due to administrative error. He apologised for this. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. After our involvement, Nationwide  said that it was now 
upholding his complaint as the reason the funds  werent accepted was that he needed to 
complete an ISA renewal. It offered to backdate Mr Ms ISA contribution  to 4 April 2018  and 
to pay him £100  for his inconvenience. 
Our investigator thought the offer was fair and reasonable. But she didnt think  the branch 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably in dealing with Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He wanted £200  compensation because of the telephone calls he had 
with the branch in June 2018.  So the complaint came to me for a decision. Mr M provided 
information for the ombudsman deciding the complaint about the way the branch staff 
members had approached his complaint,  and asked whether that was appropriate behaviour  
in dealing with a complaint. 
Ref: DRN65894362The complaint then came to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 February 2019.  My provisional findings  were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I think that Nationwide  could have provided better service in the days 
before 6 April when Mr M was discussing with it what was required in order to make the 
deposit. But I think that Nationwides offer to allow Mr M to make the contribution  to his ISA 
and to backdate it to 4 April 2018 is a fair resolution of that part of his complaint. 
Mr M is also unhappy about Nationwides handling of his complaint in June 2018,  but Im 
afraid I dont have the power to look at a complaint handling complaint,  so  I wont  be asking 
it to do anything more  than that. Ill explain the reasons for this part of my decision shortly,  
but before  I do so Id like to reassure Mr M that even if I dont refer to every point hes made, 
I have read and considered the whole  file. But Ill only deal with the issues  I need to in order 
to reach  a fair decision.  
By the time the complaint came to me, Nationwide  had agreed to uphold it. This was 
because it acknowledged  that Mr M was given  incorrect information in branch and in the final 
response letter. The actual reason  the payment couldnt be credited to his ISA was because  
Mr M hadnt completed an ISA renewal  form. 
Ive looked very carefully at the information provided by the branch staff members as to their 
recollection of events. Ive no doubt  that the staff members tried their best to assist Mr M 
before 6 April 2018. But it my view it is reasonable for me to conclude that having been  told 
Mr M wished  to transfer money into his ISA he should have been informed he needed to 
complete an ISA renewal  form in order to be able to do so. He dealt with two different staff 
members prior to 6 April, and neither informed him of this requirement.  So I do think  Mr M 
could have been provided with better  customer service at that time. 
On 8 June one of those  staff members has told us that she did suggest to Mr M that the lack 
of an ISA renewal form might have been  the reason why the money wasnt  credited. It 
seems to me that that is one of the reasons Mr M was so unhappy  with the service  received 
before 6 April when he was trying  to transfer the funds. It may be that he was frustrated at 
not being told this at the time and that is one of the reasons that he felt the branch staff 
member didnt try to help him at that time.  While  I do appreciate that the branch  staff 
member did her best, I can see how Mr M may have been annoyed at being  told this in June, 
when he wasnt told it in April, at a point when  the form couldve been  completed in time.  
After the complaint came to us, Nationwide changed  its position  and upheld his complaint. It 
offered to backdate Mr Ms ISA contribution to 4 April 2018  and to pay him £100 for the 
inconvenience. 
I think this is a fair offer, subject to Mr M now completing a satisfactory  ISA renewal form. 
Under this offer Mr M will have been put in the position he should have been in if Nationwide  
had done the right thing before 6 April 2018. 
Mr M wants £200 compensation. This is because he isnt happy with the handling of his 
complaint in June.  He is particularly annoyed  that one of the staff members  he was 
complaining about was involved  in the resolution  of his complaint. I can see why he feels  
Ref: DRN65894363that way. But Im afraid that I dont have  the power to consider  complaints about complaint 
handling. 
I only have the power  given to me by our rules. These are contained in that part of the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys Handbook known  as the DISP rules.  We can only consider 
complaints about  certain activities of firms  those activities  set out at 2.3.1 of the DISP 
rules. And complaint handling isnt one of the activities referred to in the rules. So Im afraid  I 
cant look at that part of Mr Ms complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him. 
So when considering what compensation for inconvenience would be fair, Im only looking at 
the actions of Nationwide in not accepting Mr Ms deposit, and providing poor customer 
service prior to 6 April 2018. In that context I consider £100 to be a fair offer that recognises 
Nationwide could have  done better. So although  it will disappoint  Mr M, I wont be asking 
Nationwide to do anything  more. If Mr M wants to accept Nationwides  offer to accept  his ISA 
contribution and backdate  it to 4 April 2018,  and to pay him £100 compensation, he should 
contact Nationwide.
My provisional decision was that I didnt have the power to consider those parts  of Mr Ms 
complaint that concern Nationwide Building  Societys complaint handling.
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision.  Mr M said it would be helpful if Nationwide  
could be instructed to deposit the £100 compensation into his account and to send him the 
form he needs to complete  to have the ISA backdated. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted my 
decision, I see no reason  to change it. Mr M has made it plain that he wishes to accept 
Nationwides offer, so Nationwide should now get in touch  with him to arrange  to pay the 
£100 compensation and to make arrangements for the ISA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont have the power  to consider those parts  of Mr Ms complaint 
that concern Nationwide Building Societys complaint handling.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6589436