K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about their home insurer, Fairmead  Insurance Limited,  in 
relation to a claim  they made to it after their home was flooded.
background
Mr and Mr Ps property  was flooded by overflowing  drains on 27 May 2018. They  made a 
claim to Fairmead. Fairmead noted Mrs Ps health condition and accepted she was a 
vulnerable consumer and that their claim needed prioritising. It was 8 June 2018 before a 
hotel was organised for the family to move  to. The hotel was only booked  for a week  at a 
time and towards  the end of June  the family had to leave the hotel at short  notice when it 
became apparent their booking hadnt  been renewed and the hotel was fully booked.
At the outset Mr and Mrs P had offered to have the property stripped to aid drying and 
progress the claim.  Fairmead had said there was a process that needed to be followed.  
Several weeks into the claim  the property hadnt  been stripped and it was mid-July when the 
property was declared dry. Fairmead  and its loss adjuster noted Mr and Mrs P were  
frustrated with its claim handling to date and agreed  to offer to settle  in cash for the 
reinstatement work.
Fairmead had a contractor draw  up a scope of work. The scope (although not the pricing) 
was sent to Mr and Mrs P. They noted  it didnt allow for a wine-rack and larder units  theyd 
had in the kitchen  just standard base and wall units   and that the wall units werent being 
replaced. They said they couldnt  get a kitchen to match the existing, so the wall unit needed  
to be replaced along  with damaged base  units. Fairmeads claim handler said that as the 
claim had been  handled  badly to date, and there werent many  wall units  (reference was 
made to around 5), it would cover their full replacement cost (it was already paying labour 
to remove and refit the existing wall units).  As a result the adjuster increased the settlement 
offer from £26,494.52 to £33,000.
On 31 July 2018 a settlement of £35,500 was paid to Mr and Mrs P. The loss adjuster said 
this included an amount of £2,500  for replacing the living room carpet.
A couple of weeks after the payment was made,  Mr and Mrs P told Fairmead  they were 
expecting a separate payment in respect  of replacing their carpet  that they werent aware  
that the settlement paid to them of £35,500  was meant to be inclusive of carpet  costs.  They  
didnt challenge  any other figure paid in respect  of reinstatement work.
Mr and Mrs P told Fairmead they were  generally unhappy with how the claim had been 
handled, particularly  given how fragile Mrs Ps health had been at the time (which  Fairmead  
was aware of). They queried why electricity costs  hadnt been  paid  Fairmead accepted  
they should have been paid in August 2018 and (in February 2019) reimbursed  £417.51 to 
Mr and Mrs P. Regarding the carpet  payment, Fairmead said the settlement of £35,500 had 
included £2,500 for carpets and had been made in full and final settlement of the claim. It 
accepted it had handled things poorly but noted it had doubled the disturbance allowance  
paid to Mr and Mrs P, and that it had paid in full for undamaged kitchen units  (most insurers  
would normally only pay half that cost).  It felt that a payment  of £400 compensation in 
addition to this would  equate to fair and reasonable compensation.
Our investigator agreed with Fairmead  regarding its offer of compensation. But she felt it 
should pay an additional amount of circa £1,410  for the carpet, plus any difference  between  
Ref: DRN64968682this sum and any amount evidenced by Mr and Mrs P to show what  they paid to replace the 
carpet, both plus interest*. Also that Fairmead  should cover the cost of any out of pocket 
expenses Mr and Mrs P had incurred.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  feel the compensation was sufficient, especially not given their out of 
pocket expenses. They provided  an invoice  for carpeting at a cost of £4,182.  Fairmead didnt 
agree it should  pay more  regarding the carpet. The complaint was passed to me for a 
decision to be made.  Having assessed the complaint my view on it was very different tot that 
reached by our investigator. Amongst other  things I felt fair compensation totalled  £1,500.  
I issued a provisional decision, my findings are set out below.
I think  settlement for this claim did come  fairly  quickly.  But that doesnt mean I think it was 
handled well or in a reasonable time frame. Fairmead did cause delays,  and it accepts that. 
It argues that it was hampered by many other claims at the time and by a surge in claims 
that had occurred nationally a few months  before. But its file doesnt  suggest those issues 
caused it problems  in handling  this claim.  Rather  it seems its loss adjuster was never  
available to answer questions, had to be chased regularly even by Fairmead and that its 
drying contractor had IT issues which delayed  its report being  provided.
There were also issues  with how the alternative accommodation  was handled. I think  given 
Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances Fairmead should have gone to greater lengths to find a hotel 
in the first place  and I can see no good reason in this situation why the booking was only 
made for a week at a time. Mr and Mrs P should  never have been left in such a position as 
to have to move out of the hotel  at short notice  no policyholder should be but given Mrs Ps 
health, I think Fairmead were particularly  remiss in allowing this to happen.
I know the family had unexpected costs as a result of moving out of the hotel. But Im 
satisfied that by doubling the disturbance allowance  which  is paid to cover any extra  costs 
incurred as a result of living somewhere other than your home  Fairmead has reasonably 
covered these costs.
Mr P said he sent us an invoice for a skip he hired  to clear the contents from the property. 
This is a claim cost I think  Fairmead should  always have paid. However,  the invoice didnt 
come through to us. If Mr and Mrs P provide this, Ill likely make  an award for the cost, plus 
interest* from the date of payment. Im adding interest because Fairmead knew  Mr P cleared 
the contents so it could  reasonably have  investigated  and paid this sum before now.
Im also going to require  Fairmead to make an additional payment to Mr and Mrs P for their 
electricity usage costs. Fairmead  reimbursed £417.51 in this respect. But whilst it was aware 
this cost needed paying in August 2018,  it didnt make the payment  until February 2019. Im 
going to require it to pay an additional  sum to Mr and Mrs P to account for interest* on that 
sum from the date it shouldve been  paid in August  2018 until it was paid in February 2019.
At this time Im not intending to make Fairmead  pay more for the carpet. Mr and Mrs Ps 
invoice doesnt  give any details to show what carpet installation  cost £4,182  but that 
seems an awful  lot for one carpet for the living room. And I know  Fairmead  allowed, within its 
scope and related  settlement figure, for wood  flooring to be replaced throughout the rest of 
the downstairs.
Further, whilst I accept that between  Fairmead  and the loss adjuster, the nature of the offer 
being made was unclear, Im not persuaded the sum paid has likely meant Fairmead hasnt 
satisfied its liability that arose from the claim.  Fairmead  initially  priced the kitchen 
Ref: DRN64968683replacement at £9,187.11 excluding VAT (Mr Ps company was handling  the reinstatement 
work so no VAT was likely going to be incurred).  When Mr and Mrs P complained it wasnt  
like-for-like and an agreement to pay for replacing  the wall unit was made, the adjuster 
increased the settlement by £6,500.
I cant see any justification for such a large  increase, even accounting  for replacing  units  (as 
opposed to just removing and re-fitting the old ones)  and the other concerns Mr P had raised 
regarding the initial schedule. In total Mr and Mrs P have been  paid £15,700  for replacing 
their kitchen, plus just over £17,000 for the rest of the downstairs of their home (not including 
a cost for replacing  the living room carpet),  and a further £2,500.  I think, given the costings 
initially set by Fairmeads contractor, that seems like a reasonable settlement.
I bear in mind that I havent  seen any invoices  (beyond the one for the carpet)  or estimates 
that show what it cost Mr and Mrs P to reinstate their home. But Im mindful that they wanted  
to settle in cash, although Fairmead  was agreeable to that, and the policy  does allow 
Fairmead to pay cash settlements at the rate of what  it will cost it to complete the work.
Which means that providing invoices that show a greater cost than the total paid by 
Fairmead, wont in itself, give good reason  for me to think an additional  payment is 
reasonably due from Fairmead.
I do, however,  intend to require Fairmead to pay compensation. And more than the £400 it 
previously offered.
I know Fairmead paid a higher disturbance allowance  than that normally  paid by insurers   
but as I said above,  such  an allowance is paid in respect of extra  costs,  not distress  and 
inconvenience. And I accept that Mr and Mrs Ps costs were  likely higher than normal, so
I think doubling the allowance was reasonable and cant reasonably be set instead against 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Fairmead did also agree to replace  the wall units which were  undamaged. Whilst this does 
take its liability beyond  what the policy requires (replacing  damaged items), Fairmead will 
know that this service usually requires insurers to make an additional payment for 
undamaged items, when  those items  form part of a set, part of which  is damaged and cant  
be replaced to match.  So its not strictly true to say the whole of the replacement cost of the 
wall units  was never reasonably due to be paid by Fairmead.
As I said above, the cost for the wall units has never  been quantified. But I note that 
Fairmead seemed  to expect the cost to be relatively  low. I think if the handler  had thought 
the replacement  (as against removal and re-fitting the old ones)  was likely going to be more  
than £500 she wouldnt have agreed to cover the entire cost. Part payment would still have 
been offered.  So I think  its fair to say Fairmead likely intended to pay around £250 more  
than the policy and our approach to undamaged but matching items required it to. I think its 
fair to say this can be set against my compensation award.
Having considered everything, and taking  into account  Mrs Ps situation,  which  Fairmead 
was aware of, I think the £400 compensation it offered didnt fairly make up for the upset it 
had caused. It didnt do enough  at the outset to assist, its failure to make a reasonable 
booking at the hotel caused  the family to have to move  out at short  notice, and after that they 
had to live apart for a time until a rental  property was found. I understand that Fairmead  did 
offer a further  hotel booking  but given the stress  theyd just been caused  by Fairmeads 
failure to handle the first booking reasonably, I can understand  why they didnt want to risk 
putting themselves  through that again. Fairmeads  failures caused them to be in a position of 
Ref: DRN64968684suffering extra distress and inconvenience whichever course of action they took.  The only 
mitigating factor here is that settlement was reached  quickly  and with relatively  limited  
dispute. That being said I think total compensation of £1,500 is fairly and reasonably  due.
Taking into account the £250  Im satisfied Fairmead has already paid towards this sum (as 
explained above in respect of wall units), I intend  to require it to pay Mr and Mrs P, £1,250 
compensation.
Fairmead said it had no comment to add. Mr P provided the skip invoice. He said he wanted 
to emphasize how stressful  this whole ordeal had been. He explained what had happened 
the day they were asked  to leave  the hotel. Mr P said that particularly as the agreement  
regarding wall units pre-dated the hotel situation, it shouldnt fairly  be taken into account as 
compensation. Mr P said the invoice for carpets  included replacement  of the stairs/landing  
carpet which was damaged at the bottom of the stairs by the flood.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the skip invoice  and the amount it shows.
I can see from the communication on file how much this situation  has affected Mr and Mrs P. 
I think Fairmead failed them badly and my compensation award reflects that. Whilst this may 
disappoint Mr and Mrs P, I remain of my view provisionally stated in respect of the wall units. 
Whilst the agreement  may have  pre-dated the hotel issue,  I said Fairmead should have done 
more from the outset to assist Mr and Mrs P. And when  I make a compensation award I do 
so based on a view of the claim  handling  and the upset it caused as a whole, as well as 
taking into account  any mitigating factors. It isnt a linear process. 
Carpets  have been discussed at length  following the settlement Fairmead made in 
July/August 2018. But I havent until now seen a specific  reference  to the stairs/landing  
carpet being affected by the flood  water.  I dont think Fairmead, to date, has had a chance to 
consider its position  in respect of this specific carpet. If Mr and Mrs P want  Fairmead to 
complete a further review they should  send the carpet invoice to it along with any supporting 
evidence (for example the invoice mentions a quote and survey).  
For the avoidance of doubt, Ive seen nothing that makes me think Fairmead  has paid a 
lower settlement than is fairly and reasonably due to Mr and Mrs P in respect of the cost of 
replacing the living room carpet.  And as I noted provisionally, Fairmead allowed, within  its 
scope and related  settlement figure, for wood  flooring to be replaced throughout the rest of 
the downstairs. Im not persuaded  that, in this respect, making Fairmead  pay anything more,  
would be fair or reasonable. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs P:
£201.60, plus interest* from the date the skip was paid for until settlement is made.
An amount equal to interest* on the sum of £417.51 when applied from the date this sum 
should have been  paid in August  2018  until it was paid in February 2019.
£1,250 compensation  making my total compensation award  £1,500 with £250  of this 
sum already having been accounted for.
Ref: DRN64968685Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Fairmead  
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr 
and Mrs P, it should tell them how much its taken  off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6496868