K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) mishandled 
the voluntary termination of a hire purchase  agreement for a car and overcharged her for 
damage subsequently found  on the car.
background
In August  2016  Miss B entered into a four year hire purchase agreement  for a new car. In 
January 2019  Miss B contacted VWFS and said she now wanted to hand the car back and 
voluntary terminate the agreement.
VWFS said that a third party company would be in touch with Miss B in five working days  to 
arrange an inspection  and collection of the car. Miss B didnt hear anything and so after a 
few weeks contacted VWFS again.  VWFS again  said the third party company would be in 
touch. The car was eventually collected  in March 2019 around seven weeks  after Miss B had 
first sought  to hand the car back.
Miss B says the agent collecting  the car pointed  out damage to the front bumper that she 
had been unaware of. Miss B then received a refurbishment invoice for around  £725 to 
replace the bumper.
Miss B complained about the way her voluntary termination had been processed and the 
amount being  charged for the bumper.
Miss B says she was asked by VWFS how much  it would have cost to insure  the car for an 
additional four weeks  and said that it was around  £120. She had then been  offered this 
amount as compensation for the delay  in collecting the car which  she had accepted. 
Miss B also says that VWFS removed the VAT from the refurbishment invoice and said she 
now owed £610.  
VWFS then sent Miss B its final response letter partially upholding her complaint. It said 
there had been  an administrative  error which had resulted in her request for the car to be 
collected not being passed on to the third party company and had resulted in the delay in the 
agreement being  terminated. It said it noted  Miss B had accepted  £120 as compensation for 
that mishandling.
However, VWFS said that the refurbishment  invoice was fair. It said that refurbishment  costs 
were part of the terms and conditions of the agreement signed by Miss B. There  had been a 
split to the front bumper which was outside acceptable wear and tear as set by the British  
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Associations  (BVRLA)  fair wear and tear guidelines.  These 
guidelines were  used as the industrys standard to apply  when  inspecting  a car returned  at 
the end of a financial agreement. It said that Miss B was required to pay the £610  invoice.
Miss B complained to this service. She said that she had replaced the car with another, but 
then had been inconvenienced  by having  to keep the car longer than shed  expected. She 
said to keep it safe shed had to keep it on her driveway which meant  that she had to leave 
the other car on the street.
Ref: DRN67623112Miss B said she didnt think the amount charged  for the bumper was reasonable. She agreed  
there had been  damage but that it wouldnt cost £610 to repair  it. She said a charge of 
around £200 would be fair.
Miss B said that VWFS had unfairly  tried to collect a direct  debit  payment  for the full amount 
of the refurbishment  invoice from her account. This had only failed as she had already 
cancelled the direct debit.
Miss B also said that she had received  a penalty notice from DVLA  in May 2019 for the car 
being uninsured in April 2019.  She said she had tried to argue with DVLA  that the car wasnt 
her responsibility by then,  but had been  told as she was still the registered keeper  she was 
still required  to pay the penalty notice. In order to keep the cost down she had paid a 
discounted amount  of £50, a reduction  of 50% of the amount originally charged by paying  
within a certain time period.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Bs complaint should be partially  upheld  regarding 
the fine shed  received  from the DVLA.  But she said that VWFS had acted fairly and 
reasonably regarding the compensation paid for the delay to the voluntary termination 
process, the refurbishment invoice and attempting to take the direct debit to pay that invoice.
Our investigator said it was agreed  that there  had been a delay in collecting the car and that 
was due to an error  made by VWFS. She said VWFS had asked Miss B what would have 
been the cost of keeping  the car insured for the extra period and Miss B had said around 
£120. Our investigator  said she thought  this was a fair approach  and meant Miss B hadnt 
been expected to cover this extra cost.
Our investigator also said she had noted that Miss B had said she was satisfied with this 
outcome and although she appreciated  Miss B would have been frustrated having the car on 
her drive  for an unexpected period it was her responsibility to keep the car safe.  Our 
investigator said the delay in processing the voluntary termination of the agreement  had 
been fairly handled by the VWFS.
Our investigator said it wasnt for this service to comment on whether the refurbishment 
invoice quoted by businesses was excessive. Our role is to see whether such a charge had 
been applied  fairly. And looking at the evidence the damage to the front bumper was clear 
and was outside what would be considered fair wear and tear when applying the BVRLA 
guidelines. Our investigator said VWFS hadnt acted  unfairly  charging  for this damage and 
she noted that the cost would be higher as the bumper required replacing rather than just 
repair.
Our investigator said that is a term and condition of the hire purchase agreement that Miss B 
keep the car in good repair. The agreement also set out that if the car was damaged  in 
excess of fair wear and tear then Miss B would be liable for that.
Our investigator said VWFS  had advised in the letter that accompanied the refurbishment 
invoice that it would seek a direct  debit payment for those costs, so Miss B had been  
informed of what would happen in the event of non-payment. In light of that she couldnt 
reasonably say this action  had been  unfair.
However, our investigator said that Miss B had paid a penalty payment for the car in regards 
to an issue with its insurance for a time when it hadnt been in her control, having handed it 
Ref: DRN67623113back in March 2019. She said it would be fair for VWFS to reimburse  Miss B the £50 shed 
had to pay.
VWFS hasnt  responded to our investigators  view. Miss B says she doesnt believe VWFS 
would have had the car repaired prior to selling it on, or if it did then it would have only 
repaired the bumper.
As the parties havent  agreed the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss B has found the handling  of her voluntary termination  of the hire 
purchase frustrating and that she has been upset at the amount shes been charged for the 
damage found on the bumper. But VWFS has accepted that things didnt go as they should  
have done and has paid compensation to her for that.
Miss B says she ended up keeping  the car for about  seven  weeks  longer than shed 
expected and that the compensation was based  on the cost of around four weeks worth of 
additional insurance. And while I appreciate  having the car on the drive  would have  been  
frustrating I think the impact of that would have been  relatively  minimal. Im not clear from 
what Miss B has said whether she did pay for the car to be additionally insured or chose to 
keep it off road instead. So I think the way VWFS  calculated  the impact  on Miss B was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In any event, as Miss B has herself  expressed  satisfaction with the outcome of this part of 
her complaint, I dont  think I reasonably need  to re-look  at the compensation, particularly as I 
dont think it was unfair.
Ive seen the inspection report prepared when  the car was handed  back. This report  comes 
with a photo of the damage  to the bumper which clearly shows a split. Miss B has also 
agreed there  was damage to this part of the car so the actual damage found  isnt disputed, 
or that it would have  required some sort work  on it. Miss B says its the amount she was 
charged that was unfair. Ive seen she has disputed  both whether VWFS  would have had the 
repair undertaken or whether the bumper would have required replacing rather  than a repair.
Under the agreement  I think  its clear  that Miss B is responsible for keeping  the car in good 
condition and, should there  be any damage  that is beyond  fair wear and tear, then she is 
liable for that damage. Looking at the BVRLA  guidelines, which sets the industry standard  as 
to what damage is and isnt fair to charge for, I think the damage  to the bumper was beyond 
what is accepted  as fair wear and tear. So I think that it was fair for VWFS to charge Miss B 
for that.
I also think its reasonable to consider that the damage to the cars bumper would have an 
impact on its value.  So I dont think it matters whether VWFS had the car repaired or not as 
either way there would be a financial implication for VWFS. 
I dont know whether the bumper could have been repaired, as opposed to being replaced 
as Im not an expert in that area,  but I also havent  been provided with any evidence that a 
repair, as opposed  to replacement, would have  been  sufficient to maintain the cars value.
Ref: DRN67623114As already explained by our investigator it isnt in my remit to look at the costs claimed by a 
business for repairs so Im not going to comment on the amount Miss B has been charged.  
But looking  at the evidence I dont think the fact VWFS charged  her for the damage to the 
bumper was unfair. 
Miss B says she was shocked by VWFSs  behaviour  when it attempted to take the full 
payment for the refurbishment invoice from her account. But VWFS says it did advise that 
this would be done in the letter  that accompanied the invoice. While I havent seen this 
particular letter I note this is the process followed by VWFS so I dont think I can reasonably  
say its unreasonable if Miss B was alerted  this would  happen.  Im also aware  this was 
unsuccessful as the direct debit  had been cancelled.
Ive seen the car was actually sold in May 2019 having been collected  at the end of March 
2019. Miss B has found herself  liable for a penalty  payment for the car when it was no longer 
in her control  in April as she was still shown as the registered keeper.  This is unfair  as shed 
handed the car back and any issues with the DVLA  should have been dealt with by VWFS. I 
think Miss B was sensible to pay the penalty notice  when  she did and so reduce the amount 
due by 50% as that mitigated any cost for VWFS. I think  it would be fair for VWFS to 
reimburse this amount  to Miss B.
So, for the reasons set out above I think VWFS  has acted  fairly in regards to the 
compensation amount for the mishandling of the voluntary termination and in issuing the 
refurbishment invoice  to Miss B. I also think it was reasonable for VWFS to follow its 
processes by seeking payment for that invoice via a direct debit payment from Miss Bs 
account.
However, I agree its unfair that Miss B has to cover the fine from the DVLA  for a time when 
the car was back with VWFS. Im therefore  asking  that the amount of £50 is repaid to Miss B 
and Im partially upholding  her complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im partially  upholding Miss Bs complaint. Im asking  
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to pay Miss B £50 to reimburse  the penalty 
payment she had to make  to the DVLA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6762311