K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank  Plc released  confidential information to a third party.
background
Mrs M held a joint account with her father, who sadly passed away.  But TSB sent the 
account statements, including  confidential  information about Mrs M to another relative. She 
says that she had previously told TSB about  a dispute with that relative. Mrs M says that the 
relative is contesting  her fathers will and TSBs actions have added to her legal costs and 
caused her extreme anxiety and distress, which has made a medical  condition  worse.
My provisional decision was that TSBs  existing offer of compensation was fair. I said I was 
satisfied that TSB had made a mistake.  But the evidence we have shows  that Mrs Ms 
relative contested  her fathers will before TSB made its mistake. So I couldnt say that its 
mistake led to the legal  fees that have  had been  paid in respect  of the dispute.  I havent 
seen any evidence to show  the legal fees were higher than they otherwise would be directly 
because of TSBs mistake.
After considering what Mrs M had said it seems  that the cause of her anxiety was the 
ongoing dispute in respect of her fathers  will. While I dont doubt that TSBs mistake has 
added to the distress, it is difficult for me to say that it is responsible for all of the upset Mrs 
M has experienced.  I can only make  an award to reflect the trouble and upset caused  by 
TSBs error.  So after careful consideration, I thought  that TSBs  offer was fair.
I invited both sides to make any further submissions if they wished. TSB responded to point 
out that its existing  offer was £300  for any distress and inconvenience  and £50 for expenses,  
a total of £350  not £350 and £50, a total of £400,  as stated in my provisional decision.
Mrs M didnt  accept my decision.  She made a number of points, including that that I needed 
to clarify why I was agreeing with TSB when it was clear it had released her information  
without her permission.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I did in my provisional  decision for largely the same reasons.
Im sorry  to both sides for the mistake in my provisional decision.  While I said that TSBs 
existing offer was fair, I inflated the amount by £50 by mistake.  To be clear, Im satisfied that 
its existing offer of £300 for distress and inconvenience and £50 for expenses is fair. Ill 
explain why below.
I accept that TSB made a mistake in releasing Mrs Ms confidential information to a third 
party. So I need  to consider the impact on Mrs M.
Mrs M says that the mistake has made  the dispute with her relative  worse  than it was. But 
she hasnt been  able to give us any persuasive  evidence that it was TSBs mistake  that led 
to the dispute  about the will or that it made  it worse. In view of that and as the dispute was 
already ongoing when  TSB made its mistake, I dont have enough evidence to support that it 
led directly to any of the legal costs that Mrs M suffered. In other  words,  it looks likely that 
Mrs M would  still have  incurred those costs had TSB not made its mistake.
Ref: DRN62144622That leaves compensation for the distress  and inconvenience that was caused to Mrs M 
because of the mistake. As I said in my provisional decision, I dont doubt  that TSBs mistake  
added to the distress  Mrs M experienced.  But it seems that she would still have suffered a 
great deal of upset  because of the dispute   even if the mistake hadnt occurred. I say that 
because Im not sufficiently persuaded that the dispute would  have been  resolved any 
sooner or been less hard-fought.
Taking all of that into account  and bearing in mind the specific points that Mrs M has made 
about the actions taken  by her relative following the mistake, I still consider that a total 
payment of £350  is a fair amount to reflect what  happened. So I wont be telling TSB to 
increase its offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should  pay Mrs M £350.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6214462