K820x#14Complaint
Miss Z says Inchcape Retail Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy when she arranged  financing to buy a car in 2010. 
Background
I set out the background  to the complaint in my provisional decision of December 2019. It 
included the following:
The PPI policy was paid for by a monthly  premium  and provided Miss Z with disability and 
unemployment cover. 
Our adjudicator considered Miss Zs complaint and, most recently, recommended  it be 
upheld. Inchcape disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to review  afresh.  
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Zs case.  
Having done so, Im provisionally not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator most recently  recommended  the complaint be upheld on two grounds.  One 
ground was that Miss Z had a pre-existing  medical condition and, as the policy excluded 
claims for such  conditions, it wasnt suitable for her.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss Z has told us about her health and I dont currently 
think this did mean  that the policy was unsuitable  for her. I say that because she says she 
had what appears  to have been an isolated episode of back  pain which led to her taking a 
couple of weeks  off work. She took rest and attended physiotherapy sessions before 
returning to work.
So it seems  Miss Z experienced a single episode of back pain prior to 2010  and which  was 
successfully treated. Im not persuaded, from what shes told us, that this ought  to have been 
a significant factor in the sale. Especially  since Miss Z hasnt been able to clarify when she 
first experienced the problem  its possible it arose several years  before the sale occurred.
Importantly, the policys  exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions  didnt  apply if the 
insured been free of symptoms and hadnt consulted  a doctor  or received  treatment  for the 
condition in the 24 months  immediately before claiming. So, depending on when Miss Z 
suffered her back problems, she might  not have been affected by the exclusion at all.
The policy terms did require additional  evidence  for backache or related  claims but, as Ive 
said, I dont think this would have been  a major  cause for concern in the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the fact that Miss Z made no mention of any health conditions  when she 
complained to Inchcape or when  she first complained to us. In our PPI questionnaire  (PPIQ),  
she was asked if she had any health problems or had been registered as disabled at the 
time of the sale. She said she hadnt. Indeed, later in the PPIQ, she said I DID [NOT 
Ref: DRN68578482REQUIRE] A POLICY AS NO SICKNESS  APART  FROM THE ODD DAY DUE TO A 
COLD This doesnt indicate to me that Miss Z would have considered  herself to have 
suffered from a pre-existing medical condition in 2010. 
The second  ground the adjudicator relied on involved  the cost of the policy   they said this 
information wasnt disclosed to Miss Z during the sale. And that, given  what the cost of the 
policy was, Miss Z wouldnt have gone  ahead and taken it had she known.
However, Ive seen a copy of a sample  Demands  and Needs Statement that Inchcape says 
relates to this sale. Im satisfied that this was the same or similar to what Miss Z would have  
seen and that it explained the monthly  premium both for the recommended  level of cover  
and for several  reduced levels of cover.
So I think it likely Miss Z would have known the cost of the policy  before she agreed to buy it. 
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold on this basis.
 
Ive gone on to look at other aspects of the sale to see whether  there  were  other  failings. For 
example, Inchcape needed to make  it clear to Miss Z that she had a choice about buying the 
policy and ensure she actively opted to buy it. The parties agree the PPI was sold in a 
meeting but I dont  know for sure what was said to her at the time. 
The sample Demands  and Needs Statement includes tick boxes provided for the consumer 
to indicate whether they wanted  to buy the recommended policy,  take out a reduced  level of 
cover or decline cover  altogether. I dont know which of the boxes Miss Z ticked  but Im 
satisfied Miss Z saw the statement, likely  knew she had a choice about buying  the policy and 
actively decided to do so.
As Inchcape  recommended  the policy to Miss Z it needed, among  other  things, to check  that 
it was suitable  for her. I dont know  for certain  what checks  Inchcape  made. But, considering  
what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, I havent seen any reason to think it 
wasnt suitable because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and  aside from the aspects mentioned  
above  wasnt  affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations. 
Miss Z says she was entitled to generous sick pay and redundancy pay from her 
employer and had savings that meant she didnt need the policy. But, on a successful 
claim, this policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or other sources  of 
funding she might have had available, and for up to 12 months per claim. So I think  shed 
still have valued  the added protection this policy provided at what  might have been a 
difficult time for her.
The policy was flexible in that it could have  been  cancelled at any time, and at no extra  
cost, if she no longer considered it to be suitable.
Inchcape also needed to give Miss Z enough information about  the PPI policy  for her to 
make an informed choice  about buying it. As Ive said, Im satisfied that the monthly cost of 
the policy was given to her at the time of the sale. But I cant be sure that Inchcape  did 
enough to explain  other important things  about the policy. That said, for the same reasons  I 
think the policy was suitable for her, I dont think better information  would have changed her 
mind about  buying  it. 
Ref: DRN68578483Overall, I dont  believe Miss Zs lost out because of how Inchcape sold her the policy.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive provisionally  decided  not to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. 
Inchcape agreed  with my provisional  decision and didnt have anything to add to it. 
Miss Z disagreed with the provisional decision. She said she has a chronic back condition 
and that the episode she mentioned to the adjudicator  which  occurred in 1992  was the 
just first of many. She suggested she hadnt  made this clear  to the adjudicator.
Miss Z also felt it was important  Inchcape no longer held a copy  of any paperwork from the 
sale showing  she wanted PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Zs case.
I thank Miss Z for the further information  shes provided concerning her back  condition. 
While I recognise the condition was ongoing,  I remain of the view that it wasnt  so significant 
that it would  have meant the PPI was unsuitable  for her, or that she wouldnt have taken  the 
policy had the restrictions and limitations  been  made  clearer.
I say that because Ive placed emphasis on the information Miss Z provided  to Inchcape and 
to us in the PPIQ and over the phone to the adjudicator. As Ive said, this doesnt suggest to 
me that Miss Z considered the condition to be a major concern back  then, or that she would  
have viewed the condition any differently at the time of the sale.  Although shes explained  
that she didnt  see herself  as disabled, the question she was asked in the PPIQ  was wider 
than that  it also asked if there were any health problems. She indicated at the time that 
there werent  and even  went  on to say shed suffered no time off work other than for the 
occasional cold. 
Regarding the paperwork,  I realise  its frustrating  that Inchcape cant  provide anything  
specific to the sale despite it taking place  in 2010. But Im satisfied that I can rely on the 
sample paperwork its sent to us which,  among  other things,  indicates  to me that Miss Z 
would have been told she had the option to decline PPI and also what  the PPI cost. 
Overall, I remain of the view that Miss Z hasnt lost out because  of how Inchcape  sold her 
the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN68578484Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6857848