K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Canada Square  Operations Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold  him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a credit card in 1999.
background
EGG was an internet  based  account.  Mr G applied online for his credit  card with PPI via the 
EGG website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr G is mainly concerned that he didnt  need PPI given his significant sick pay entitlement. 
He told us that if the costs versus benefits,  as well as the optionality,  of the policy  been  
made clear to him, he would have declined it. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. 
I think Egg made Mr G aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. On the 
online application form Mr G completed  he had to select the Yes option if he decided to 
include PPI. There was an option to say No and his application wouldve continued without 
PPI being included if hed done that. Mr G had to select  one of those  options  to proceed with 
his application.  So I think he wouldve  been aware that it was up to him to say if he wanted 
the PPI at the time - even if hes forgotten this now. 
On balance, I find that EGG made  Mr G aware that he had a choice about protecting  his 
repayments and he wanted to do so at the time. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him.
The PPI wouldve protected Mr G if he was disabled or too sick to work as well as paying out 
if hed lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. It wouldve paid out on top of his sick 
pay, and in full for longer  than he couldve relied on his employer to pay him full sick pay. 
I think this wouldve been a useful benefit  at what couldve  been a difficult  time  especially if 
Mr G had extra costs as a result of being off work sick. PPI wouldve more than covered his 
EGG card minimum monthly repayments  and cleared  his card balance  if hed needed to 
claim for the full 12 months. So I think Mr G couldve benefitted from having the policy.    
It doesnt look like Mr G wouldve been caught by any of the conditions which limited the 
policys cover for some  people.  So, I dont  think that knowing  more  about things the policy  
didnt cover wouldve  made any difference to Mr Gs decision to take the policy  out. 
Ref: DRN67266562Next to where Mr G was asked to decide about the PPI on the application  he completed, the 
purpose of the cover  is broadly  described, the cost is set out and theres some information 
about the benefits it offers. The policy provided Mr G with the protection  broadly described  
on the website  which hed indicated he was willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing to suggest  
the policy was unaffordable for him when he took it out.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr G still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed  as PPI gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.
This means  I dont  find that Mr G has lost out as a result of anything that EGG mightve done 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6726656