K820x#14complaint
Ms S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by phone  in 2004. The sale took 
place around six months after Ms S opened the credit card account. The policy gave her 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And it included some life insurance.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint, Ill explain why.
When Ms S applied for a credit card in 2003 she didnt select  PPI on the application 
form. The bank says it was on the phone several  months later that she agreed to take 
out, but Ms S says it was added without her knowledge or consent. Barclays doesnt 
have a call recording of the sale but thats  not unreasonable given how long ago it was. 
Ive looked at the sales script it says it used  at the time. I think  this made clear the PPI 
was optional as it asked customers if they wanted  to apply. And I havent  found enough 
evidence to conclude  the adviser  didnt follow the standard sales process.  In addition, 
as Ms S hadnt taken out PPI at the time she applied for her credit  card I think she 
wouldve been known  it was a separate, optional product. Overall, I think  its most likely 
Barclays made it clear the PPI was optional and Ms S agreed  to take it out. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms S so it had to check  if it was suitable for her. I 
think it was based on what Ive seen about  her circumstances at the time. Ms S was 
entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, but the PPI would  
have paid out in addition  to this for each successful accident and sickness  claim for up to 
12 months. Shes told us she had a redundancy package, but again the PPI would have 
again paid out in addition  to this, protecting any lump sum redundancy payment and 
giving increased  financial stability at a difficult time. Overall I think  the PPI would have 
been useful for Ms S if she was sick, had an accident or lost her job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Ms S chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. She wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  or limitations  and the 
policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely Ms S 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think she would still have taken  out the policy.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because:  
Ref: DRN63124782Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Ms S any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6312478