K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the service  Miss B received from a mortgage advisor who is an 
appointed representative of First Complete Ltd. Shes unhappy that the full survey that she 
requested wasnt carried  out and shes ended  up buying a property with extensive defects 
that have (and will) cost her a lot of money  to put right.
background
By way of a first provisional  decision dated  11 March  2020, I set out, with reasons, the basis  on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the parties.  
After hearing from both parties, I issued a second  provisional decision on 30 March 2020.  Both 
provisional decisions are attached  below and form part of this final decision 
I gave the parties  until 13 April 2020 to reply to the second provisional decision. We heard 
from First Complete but when our investigator checked with Miss B, she said she hadnt 
received the second provisional  decision,  even though it had been sent to the same email  
address as the first. The investigator emailed  Miss B a further copy.
The second  provisional decision didnt include any information that Miss B hadnt already 
been made aware of beforehand by the investigator. Hed already  explained  why I had 
changed my mind about awarding her compensation  once it became apparent  that the email 
to which  Miss B said shed received no reply  hadnt  been addressed  to First Completes 
broker, but to the estate  agent. 
We received Miss Bs response  to the proposed change of outcome by email  on 
17 March 2020;  the second provisional  decision merely documented what wed already told 
her, and what shed  said in response. Weve asked Miss B if she wishes  to comment  further 
before I finalise my decision. Miss B has done so, in an email to the investigator, dated 
20 April 2020.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, theres no reason for me 
to depart from the conclusions set out in the second provisional decision.  
Ive studied Miss Bs emailed response  to the second provisional decision very carefully;  its 
clear the transaction as a whole was a stressful time for her, and Ive no doubt she still feels 
very strongly  that she was let down by the various  parties she engaged to help her. 
But for all the reasons  I set out in the first provisional decision, this complaint is solely  about the 
broker who represented First Complete. And for all the reasons I set out in my second provisional 
decision, I dont  find that First Completes broker failed to reply to an email from Miss B. 
Every email shes sent me that was addressed to the broker also showed that the broker 
replied; that includes  the exchange  from November 2015 included with Miss Bs email  of 
20 April 2020. The email   dated  24 February  2016 - to which Miss B says the broker didnt 
reply was addressed  to the estate agent  and the conveyancer but not to the broker.  All I can 
do is reiterate that I cant  hold the broker liable  for not replying  an email that wasnt sent to 
her and therefore couldnt have received by her. 
Ref: DRN69853672my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69853673CONTENT OF SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  the service Miss B received from a mortgage advisor who is an appointed 
representative of First Complete Ltd. Shes unhappy that the full survey  that she requested wasnt 
carried out and shes ended up buying a property with extensive defects that have (and will) cost her 
a lot of money to put right.
background
By way of a first provisional decision dated 11 March  2020, which  is attached below and forms part of 
this decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded  to determine this complaint, 
subject to the further  submissions of the parties. I gave the parties until 1 April 2020 to reply to the 
first provisional decision; both have  already  done so.
First Complete didnt agree that it should pay Miss B £300 compensation for poor service.  
It pointed  out that the email  to which Id said the Broker hadnt replied  hadnt actually  been addressed 
to her. Rather, Miss B had addressed it jointly, to the Agent and her conveyancer. 
As the first provisional decision sets out, I can only consider  the acts and/or omissions of the Broker. 
So I arranged for the investigator to ask Miss B if she could provide examples of emails she had sent 
to the Broker, to which  she hadnt received a reply. The investigator also explained, at my direction, 
that if Miss B couldnt  do so, then it was likely Id change my mind about the award of compensation  
Id made in my first provisional decision.
Miss B hasnt  provided  any such emails; shes said that its very unfair  of me to suggest  that the 
Broker couldnt have  replied  to an email she was not copied into and had no access  to.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The only point for me to revisit here is the provisional  award of compensation  I made  in my first 
provisional decision.  Miss B says its unfair of me to say the Broker couldnt reply to an email shed  
never received or had access to. On the contrary, it would be most unfair of me to award  
compensation when theres been no error or omission. I cant hold the Broker liable for not replying  an 
email that wasnt sent to her and therefore couldnt have received.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against First Complete Ltd.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 13 April 2020,  or sooner if both parties  confirm  
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Again, neither  
party need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69853674CONTENT OF FIRST PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  the service Miss B received from a mortgage advisor who is an appointed 
representative of First Complete Ltd. Shes unhappy that the full survey  that she requested wasnt 
carried out and shes ended up buying a property with extensive defects that have (and will) cost her 
a lot of money to put right.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex. Ive read everything,  and 
have summarised events  in rather less detail than has been presented, using my own words. No 
discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service we provide, and if I dont 
mention something,  it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral or, in some instances,  have little or no 
impact on the broader outcome. 
In 2015 Miss B bought a property as a first-time buyer; she found  the property through  an estate  
agency firm Ill refer to as R. In addition  to selling  property, R also has specialist staff to advise on 
mortgages and insurance; these specialists,  whilst  employed by R, represent First Complete Ltd. One 
of these advisors, whom  Ill refer to as the Broker,  arranged the mortgage  for Miss B. The lender that 
the Broker recommended Miss B apply to for the mortgage  was a firm Ill call N.
In addition to the valuation that N would need in order to decide  whether to lend to her or not, Miss B 
wanted a detailed inspection of her own on the property. When  submitting Miss Bs application to N, 
the Broker specified that a home buyers report should be commissioned in addition  to the valuation. 
As the transaction progressed towards completion, Miss B became  concerned that shed not received 
her inspection. She says that when  she asked about this, she was told not to worry because  it 
probably meant there was nothing wrong  to report on.
Miss B completed on the purchase in late 2015 and moved in, only to find a variety of serious defects; 
examples include (but arent limited to) rotting plaster and skirting in several rooms, electrical defects, 
a silverfish infestation and rubbish dumped  in the back garden. When Miss B complained,  it was 
established that the surveying firm had only conducted the valuation  for N; it hadnt conducted  a home 
buyers report for Miss B. First Complete rejected the complaint, confirming  that the Broker had given 
the right instruction to N.
When Miss B referred the complaint to us, it was apparent she was unhappy  not just with 
First Complete but with N as well. Weve taken the complaint forward against First Complete  and 
explained that Miss B can make a separate complaint  about  N if she wishes. 
Our investigator didnt think First Complete was to blame for Miss B having bought the property 
without her own inspection on its condition, and so didnt recommend the complaint  be upheld.  Miss B 
has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. But Ill make  some general observations before dealing  with the 
substance of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN69853675Were not the regulator  of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal  processes or how 
they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual 
disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the 
courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides  instructions on how we investigate a complaint. 
We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference  from anyone else.
I think  this is a case where all the parties involved would  benefit  from a clarification of our remit. I say 
this because, in the course of buying the property, Miss B has engaged and/or transacted with several 
different business entities.  Not all of those entities fall under the scope of the Financial  Ombudsman 
Service, and not all of the demarcation  lines between them will be readily apparent, at least  not to a 
lay person such as Miss B. In fairness to all, but especially to Miss B, Ill do that here.
Miss B bought her property through the estate agency R; her contact  point in respect of the property 
purchase was an individual Ill refer to as the Agent. The activities of estate agencies  arent  covered  
by the Financial Ombudsman Service; theyre dealt with by a separate  organisation,  The Property 
Ombudsman. Ill return to the relevance  of this in due course.
Miss Bs property was valued for mortgage purposes by the surveying firm instructed by her chosen 
lender N. With a small number of exceptions,  none  of which apply here, the activities of surveying 
firms arent covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. The surveying firm didnt conduct  a home  
buyers report for Miss B, only a valuation  for N. If Miss B thinks there were shortcomings in the 
valuation for which the surveying firm is liable  to her (rather than to N on whose  behalf it conducted 
the valuation), she may wish to consider getting specialist legal advice before considering pursuing a 
claim against it.
Miss Bs mortgage was provided by N; N was also responsible for instructing the surveying firm with 
regards to inspecting  and reporting on the condition of the property.  N is covered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, and so we can consider  a complaint from Miss B (once  N has had a 
chance to address it first) about  how N handled her mortgage application and what instructions it gave 
to the surveying firm. 
But we cant address  those  concerns here because this complaint is about  First Complete,  the firm 
responsible for the activities of the Broker who advised  on and then arranged Miss Bs mortgage 
application to N. The key distinction here is between  the Agent and the Broker,  both of whom are 
employed by R. We cant consider anything the Agent  did (or didnt do) because  as I mentioned earlier,  
we have no jurisdiction over estate agencies. We can consider what the Broker did (or didnt do) as a 
mortgage advisor  and arranger because, although also employed by R, she represented First Complete. 
Put all of the above together and it means my review of this complaint is solely about the activities of the 
Broker and I do that next. As I said earlier, if I dont  comment on any specific point its not because  Ive 
failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the 
right outcome in the wider  context. My remit is to take an overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
As part of the process of recommending the mortgage with N, the Broker carried out a fact-find 
exercise to establish Miss Bs circumstances and requirements. One of the requirements identified  
was that Miss B wanted a detailed inspection  of the condition of the property upon which she could 
rely. A mortgage valuation doesnt  provide  that; the sole purpose of a valuation is to allow  a lender to 
decide if a property  is acceptable security for the money its being asked to lend. 
For a purchaser who wants their own inspection, there are two options; a home buyers report and a 
full survey. Contrary to what our investigator said in his view of the case, these  are not the same 
thing, even though they share a common feature in that both are prepared for the applicants benefit.  
A full survey  is typically arranged by the applicant, directly, with the surveying firm of their choice,  with 
no involvement from the broker or the lender. The surveying firm will inspect the property and prepare  
a detailed survey report for which it is liable solely to the applicant.
Ref: DRN69853676A home  buyers  report is generally arranged by the lender at the same time as the valuation.  Largely 
for conveniences sake, the same surveying firm will usually be instructed,  which will then examine 
the property  and prepare two completely separate documents; a valuation for which  it is responsible 
to the lender and the home buyers report, for which it responsible to the applicant.
In defending the complaint, First Complete  has relied  on the application form that the Broker submitted 
to N on behalf of Miss B, which clearly shows that it asked N to request a home buyers report. On first 
glance, that might point  to the Broker  having discharged First Completes  duty to Miss B in full, and I 
can see why the business,  and then our investigator, thought  the matter ended  there.
However, Miss B has told us that she hadnt wanted a home  buyers report but a full survey.  I cant  be 
sure if she was aware there were two options at the time or has only become so subsequently. But if 
Miss B was aware at the outset, and made it clear to the Broker at the time of the mortgage interview, 
then Id be minded to say that simply  asking  N to commission a home buyers report  wasnt enough. Id 
have expected  the Broker to have  explained  to Miss B the difference between the two types of detailed 
inspection so that she could  then decide if the home buyers report was enough for her needs. 
Having looked through the point-of-sale material  thats been  provided, theres not enough for me to 
draw a reliable conclusion  one way or another on whether  Miss B made  it clear she wanted a full 
survey. That being so, I cant  safely conclude that the Broker failed to meet her needs in that regard. 
But for reasons Ill get to shortly, the point is moot.
Ive next considered what happened  when  Miss B began chasing up and asking questions on where  
her inspection  was and why she hadnt yet received it. Its here more than anywhere else that the 
demarcation between the Agent and the Broker is relevant, because  by her own evidence, Miss B 
was in touch with both of them  during  this period. 
In an email to our investigator dated 14 July 2019, Miss B said that it was the Agent who told her not 
to worry as shed have heard if there  were  any problems. The investigator said the evidence on this 
was inconclusive, but it wouldnt have mattered either way, because we have  no jurisdiction over what 
the Agent did or said.  In much the same vein, I cant deal with Miss Bs comment  in the same email to 
the effect that the propertys age was mis-described  to her.
Of more significance here, however, is Miss Bs question (again in the same  email to the investigator) 
about the Brokers apparent failure to respond to her emails asking about her inspection and who was 
doing it. Based on what Ive seen thus far, I do think it was incumbent on the Broker to do more  to 
help Miss B here,  if only from a customer service point of view. I cant be certain, but there is a 
possibility that if the Broker been more  proactive in following up Miss Bs concerns,  she might have 
discovered that the surveying firm hadnt conducted anything  other than the valuation for N.
That might  then have created an opportunity for the omission  to be remedied so that Miss B could  
receive her own inspection  on the condition of the property. But even if that had been the case, I 
couldnt then fairly go on to conclude that First Complete  is responsible  for Miss B being in the 
position she is now.  That is because, regardless  of any shortcomings there may have been on the 
Brokers part, the undeniable fact is that Miss B went ahead and completed on the purchase without 
ever having seen an inspection of the property in any form.
Regardless of any frustrations she may have had at the time, and regardless of the potential for delay, 
if a detailed inspection  (whether a home buyers report or a full survey) was as important to Miss B as 
she now says it was, Id have expected her simply to refuse to go ahead with the purchase unless and 
until one or other  of a full survey or a home buyers report had been carried  out and shed had the 
opportunity to read and consider what it said.
I fully understand  that Miss B might have had her own reasons for going ahead  with the purchase 
without sight of a full survey or home buyers  report. It was her right to do that, but it was also, 
ultimately, her choice to do that; and Miss B has to accept the consequences of the choice she made.
Ref: DRN69853677In my view,  Miss B is due modest compensation for what looks like a shortfall in customer  service 
from First Complete when she tried to chase things up, but nothing more.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties by 1 April 2020,  is that I intend 
to uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, it is my intention to order First Complete 
Ltd to pay Miss B £300 compensation.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 1 April 2020  or sooner if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6985367