K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint even though it didnt actually sell the insurance 
complained about.  To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Mr R says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about PPI taken out alongside  a store card which  Mr R applied for whilst 
shopping in a store in December 2000.
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough  information to uphold the complaint. He relied  on 
the fact that the policy didn't cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from a 
health problem  the consumer knew about  when he bought it. And Mr R had mentioned  
having a health condition  at the time - so if he needed to claim for this, he wouldn't have 
been able to. 
Our adjudicator felt that it was important that Mr R had understood this so he could  make  a 
fair choice  about  taking  out the PPI. But he didnt think  that FICL did enough to make this 
policy restriction clear - and if it had, then our adjudicator didnt think Mr R wouldve taken 
the policy out.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
It mainly said that it didnt look like Mr R had a serious pre-existing medical  condition  when 
he took the policy out. And he had also not provided any information  about how the condition  
affected his ability to work  it looked  like he had medication to manage  his condition when 
necessary.
So we asked  Mr R to provide us with a bit more information about his condition and how it 
had affected him when  he took out the policy. When we didnt hear anything back in 
response to that request the complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr R told us that he was unaware of the PPI and didnt know  he had it.
But FICL has given  us a copy  of Mr Rs completed  store card application. Hes signed next 
to where it says on the application form Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. 
So, although  I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear 
from the paperwork that it was up to Mr R to say if he wanted to have PPI added on.  
Ref: DRN60920002Its reasonable to think that Mr R wouldve  read through  something  he was being asked to 
sign. And he signed the completed application - so it seems to me that he must have agreed 
with the information on the form at the time.  On balance, I find that Mr R was aware that the 
policy was available  as an option  and it was added to his account when he chose  to take it out.
As Mr R made this application in a store I dont think FICL  advised him to take out the PPI. 
This means  FICL didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for him. But it still had to 
provide Mr R with clear information  about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to take 
it out. 
Its possible some information FICL gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mr R wouldve acted differently,  and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ive taken into account what Mr R told us about  his circumstances.  Looking at the sort of 
policy that its likely Mr R had I havent seen anything to suggest that he wasnt eligible for 
the cover  it offered. And it couldve paid out a benefit if he couldnt work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. It couldve  covered his monthly repayments on the 
card each month until the outstanding balance  was cleared if he wasnt  able to go back  to 
work. 
Even taking  into account what Mr R told us about  his sick pay and savings it looks  to me as 
if having the policy gave Mr R significantly better  protection  than he wouldve had otherwise. 
So I think Mr R couldve benefitted from having PPI.
 
Mr R wouldnt  have been covered for absence from work caused by a medical  condition  he 
knew about in the 12 months before the PPI start date. 
We asked Mr R to tell us a bit more  about the condition that he mentioned having when he 
took out the policy. 
He hasnt responded to our enquiries. So I dont know how his condition affected  him on a 
day to day basis prior to taking out the PPI. I dont know when,  or for how long, hed ever 
taken time off work  for it. 
Based on all the information Ive seen and been told, and looking at the probable policy  
wording, I dont feel that Ive seen enough to be able to say that its likely  Mr R wouldve had 
reason to be concerned by the exclusion that meant he wasnt  covered for an existing health 
issue. 
As far as I can see, it doesnt look like Mr R was affected by any of the other terms that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to him. So, even if these  werent mentioned clearly, or at 
all, I dont think that knowing more about the policy terms wouldve made any difference  to 
Mr Rs decision  to take it out. 
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mr R to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for him. But, taking everything into account,  I think  if 
Mr R had properly understood the cost and benefit  provided he still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a 
problem for Mr R  and he took it out when he didnt  have to, so it seems he wanted the 
cover. Plus he could  cancel it without further cost at any time. 
Ref: DRN60920003Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mr R, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.  
In particular, I dont  think having better information about the policys  limitations and 
exclusions for an existing  medical condition wouldve put Mr R off taking  it out. Ive not seen 
enough so far to suggest that at the time he took the PPI out Mr R had any reason to think  
hed likely  be off work  sick as a result  of his existing medical condition for long enough to 
want to make a claim under the policy. So I cant fairly say that hes lost out as a result of 
paying for the policy. 
This means,  as things  stand, Im not currently planning to tell FICL that it needs to do 
anything to put things right.  
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr R has confirmed that he has never had any time off work  and his medical condition has 
always been controlled. 
FICL hasnt  made any further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully  into account  everything thats  been  said in response to 
my provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN6092000