K820x#14Complaint
Mr W and Miss B say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Background
Mr W and Miss B took out a joint mortgage with Halifax  in 1998. In 2010, Halifax sold 
Mr W and Miss B a monthly premium PPI policy to protect  their mortgage repayments if 
Mr W was unable to work  because of unemployment. It was sold as part of a package called 
a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP). 
This complaints about the sale of the PPI and not the other elements, such  as critical illness 
cover, which  could have  been included as part of the TMPP package.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr W and Miss B disagreed, so 
the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr W and Miss Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from 2010,  which  is unfortunate. So 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of the remaining evidence,  together  with experience 
of Halifaxs sales processes at the time.  Ive carefully considered  Mr W and Miss Bs 
arguments about not being aware they were sold PPI. 
And, while theres nothing  to conclusively  show Mr W and Miss B agreed  to the PPI, from 
whats known of Halifaxs sales processes back then, I dont think  its likely that it would  have 
added this cover without telling them about  it or getting their agreement  to take it.
The evidence from just after the sale also indicates to me Mr W and Miss B were aware of 
the PPI and chose  to have it. For example, Halifaxs PPI acceptance letter  of March 2010 
thanked them for choosing optional mortgage  repayments cover (MRC) . The information 
enclosed with the letter also referred  to the PPI as optional  and as not being a condition  of 
the mortgage. 
I believe Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr W and Miss B. That meant Halifax needed to 
take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what  steps it took, I think  
the PPI it recommended  was right for them in any case. 
For example, from what Mr W and Miss B have told us about  Mr Ws circumstances, he was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected by any of the main things the policy  excluded  or 
limited cover  for. I cant see that Mr W and Miss B would  have  found  the monthly premium   
of less than £7  unaffordable either.
Ref: DRN61125072It seems  as though Mr W was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer.  But the PPI 
benefits he chose  consisted of unemployment cover only and not disability  cover. The 
unemployment benefits were considerable and potentially paid out for up to 12 months for 
per claim. Mr W and Miss B have also told us they had no savings, for example, that they 
could have used  if Mr W wasnt working.
Taking into account that Mr W and Miss B had entered into a long-term  financial commitment  
that was secured against their home, I think theyd have valued the protection the PPI 
provided. 
Halifax also needed to give Mr W and Miss B enough information about the PPI to allow  
them to decide  for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information 
it gave them could have  been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think 
the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed 
their decision  to take it. I think they would still have thought it provided a useful benefit at an 
affordable cost.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So, Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr W and Miss B paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mr W and Miss B back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr W and Miss B now Ive issued my final decision,  if 
it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6112507