K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that PensionBee Limited wouldnt provide him with the information he 
wanted before he signed  up with them.
Background
In early 2018 Mr N said he contacted PensionBee  and asked if they would advise him if 
there were other pension  products  that could yield a higher return. Once  given such advice 
he also wanted to ask if the decision was then solely his. Pension Bee replied that it was a 
non-advisory service.  He then asked for some information about worth if he invested in a 
variety of different  investment funds  and for information about risk.
PensionBee said it was only possible to prepare  an illustration at the point of sign up. Only 
one illustration would be provided not three.  It also referred to the pension  calculator on its 
website that might give him an estimate but not a statutory  illustration. It confirmed the risk 
profile for each fund was determined by the relevant manager but didnt say they would 
contain risk warnings.
It later said that if he transferred and wasnt satisfied with the illustration, he had a 30 day 
cooling off period so that funds could be returned to where they came from. It also said the 
actual transfer  didnt happen  until one to two days after sign up.
Mr N was unhappy. He felt that if the results were  unfavourable hed then have  to consider 
transferring again.  It didnt  initially  tell him there was a 30 day cooling off period so he was 
left believing  he would be stuck. He wasnt happy with the reply  from PensionBee saying the 
calculation and projections were not plan specific whereas the original communication 
referred to illustrations under pre-determined parameters. It also failed to mention the right to 
refer the complaint to this service.
Mr N complained but PensionBee said its correspondence with Mr N hadnt been considered 
as a complaint  because  he only sent one email  and never alleged any financial loss, material 
distress or inconvenience. It didnt  therefore think it should be considered by this service. It 
further said it systems complied with regulator requirements and it provided the required 
illustration at the earliest point it was able to do so. It also provided cancellation information 
as required. This was in the terms and conditions and key features document.  Mr N was 
required to read the terms and conditions before entering into the contract. He couldve 
found this information on their website without starting an application. With respect  to risk 
this information  was available in the website within the plans page, key features and terms 
and conditions. It didnt  refer to in it correspondence  because it was answering  Mr Ns 
question and not marketing their product.
Ref: DRN69217612Mr N said that when  he complained he followed the complaints procedure  set out by 
PensionBee and emailed the complaints address.  The final reply just said they hoped the 
reply was satisfactory,  no further information was provided but they just invited  him to ask 
further questions  if he wished. He couldnt see how this wasnt  making a complaint.
Mr N said he wanted an apology and around £60 compensation. He also noted that since 
the start of the complaint the PensionBee website now offered pre-sale illustrations. He 
didnt think this was present  when he complained  but it hadnt been  pointed out to him by 
PensionBee at the time or since.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said the following.
Before I proceeded,  I needed to consider the arguments put forward  by PensionBee that this 
isnt a complaint.  The matters  we can consider are set out in the dispute  resolution rules or 
DISP rules. These say that a complaint is
 any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction,  whether  justified or not, from, or on behalf 
of a person about the provision of, or failure to provide  a financial service. which:
(a)alleged that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer)  financial loss, material distress 
or material inconvenience; and
(b)related to an activity  .in marketing or providing financial services or products which  
come under  the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman service.
I thought complaints dont need to be identified as such. Sending an email  to a complaints  
mail box doesnt make it a complaint although  it might indicate the intent behind the email. 
Reading all of the correspondence it is clear that as required by the rules Mr N made  a 
written expression of dissatisfaction,  in that he says a reply was unsatisfactory and related to 
a regulated activity  which comes within the jurisdiction of this service. The rules say that his 
opinion need  not be justified, so I do not need  to decide the matter has merit just that it falls 
within the rules. 
I next need to consider whether the complainant  alleged that the complainant  has suffered 
(or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience Mr N didnt refer to 
financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience expressly. But he complained that 
having to wait for information post transfer might mean he needed to transfer  again.  In effect, 
he was complaining that the order in which information is provided could lead to 
inconvenience. I thought that having to transfer a pension pot again could be material  
inconvenience, not least because it may not be possible to reverse  the transfer from the 
original provider. For that reason I think his communication does allege material 
inconvenience. Again  I do not need to consider  whether  he has actually suffered such 
inconvenience just that he alleges some. I am therefore of the view that the correspondence 
and content is within the definition and I can consider this matter as a complaint.
Mr N was clearly  frustrated that he couldnt  get the information he wanted. Equally 
PensionBee says they were not required to provide  that information and were complying with 
regulator requirements. 
I have considered the regulator requirements  for a pension product such as this. The 
information can be provided via a website  and should be fair, clear and not misleading. It 
Ref: DRN69217613must also provide  enough information to enable a retail client  to make  an informed decision 
about whether  to proceed.
PensionBee say that they didnt provide projections and werent required to do so. It referred 
Mr N to the information that was provided  and which  it said complied with regulator  
requirements. 
Mr N wanted illustrations  to assist him in deciding whether to transfer. PensionBee have 
indicated that some information was available on its website but perhaps not in the form that 
Mr N mightve  wished.  It is clear that Mr N didnt find it easy  to find the information  he wished 
to enable him to make  an informed decision and he gave up. That doesnt mean that there 
was insufficient  information for a retail client to make an informed  decision.  But it does show 
that Mr N couldnt  easily  find what he wanted or it wasnt  in the form he wished to enable him 
to make an informed decision.
PensionBee have explained why it has now changed when and how information  is provided. 
The explanation seems reasonable and doesnt in my view show that what was previously 
on offer wasnt appropriate.
Mr N complained about risk warning  information  for the funds but it appears that this was 
available on the fund fact sheets. 
I can see that it wouldve  been helpful  to have been aware of the 30 day cooling off, not least  
because reversing a transfer isnt easy.  However  this is a non-advised service and the 
information was available  to Mr N on the website.  
I have concluded  that the correspondence did amount to a complaint. I note that Mr N says 
he was not directed to this service as required by the regulations. However it is clear that he 
did subsequently refer the matter  to this service  so that does not seem to have prevented  
him pursing his complaint.
In order to make an award for loss and distress and inconvenience I need to be of the view 
that PensionBee made  a mistake. I think it did fail to draw Mr Ns attention to his right to refer 
to this service. It is arguable that poor complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity  but as it is 
an activity related to a regulated activity  I have considered it to be for these purposes.
As Mr N decided  not to transfer it is clear that he hasnt  suffered any financial loss and Mr N 
hasnt suggested  that he has suffered such loss.
In considering an award for distress  and inconvenience I need to consider the impact  of the 
mistake on the individual. It is not the purpose  of such  an award to punish the business. 
When I asked Mr N what distress and inconvenience he felt he had suffered he said his 
claim for £60 was based on the time required to obtain explanations that would otherwise 
have been provided by PensionBee as he felt their replies were  incomplete. Mr N accepted 
he would  need  to do some checking but felt PensionBee made the task harder and in the 
end he gave up. However that time wasnt as a consequence of the mistake  which  was the 
failure to signpost  to this service. 
Having considered all the information  and circumstances I couldnt  reasonably  conclude  that 
Mr N had suffered inconvenience as a consequence of the mistake that merits a financial  
award nor a direction that PensionBee should  apologise.
Ref: DRN69217614In reply PensionBee  said it didnt agree that the communication it received amounted to a 
complaint. It said in particular at no point did Mr Ns correspondence allege material 
inconvenience. He said their reply was rather unsatisfactory and this didnt amount to 
material inconvenience. The suggestion that Mr N might transfer and then reverse the 
transfer which could  be material inconvenience  wasnt mentioned and couldnt be assumed 
from the correspondence that this might happen. It couldnt assume that Mr N would  transfer 
at all without receiving  the information  it wasnt able to provide. It felt at the time that it was 
most likely he would consider a different  provider  as its service was rather  unsatisfactory. It 
couldnt predict a hypothetical and unlikely future course of action from a single email query 
and then to assign some level of hypothetical potential future inconvenience.
Even if that was wrong, it said Mr N wouldve been able to cancel his transfer as soon  as he 
had received the illustration and well in advance of the time the transfer had actually 
completed. That wouldve meant  he would  not have been inconvenienced with returning at 
all.
It agreed that sending  an email to the complaints mail box doesnt make it a complaint. It felt 
it did not make a mistake  in the way it treated Mr Ns email.  It treated the email as a query  
and not a complaint. It wanted  the decision to be reconsidered and said the complaint should 
not be upheld.
In reply to my provisional decision Mr N said he asked PensionBee for risk scores (or 
similar) for the above plans and said hed noticed  they had risk/reward profiles on their 
website. He also asked  whether the scores were  calculated  by them  or some other 
organisation. He said the reply from PensionBee said that risk profiles of each plan are 
determined by the relevant fund manager. However  this didnt address the issue  of risk 
scores but instead  dealt  with risk profiles.
What he wanted  to know was whether there were scores similar to the FE risk score.  He 
managed to find the FE risk score for one of the funds but not for the remaining two. This is 
why he asked about them.
He said his claim for £60 compensation  was not so much based on the fact PensionBee 
failed to signpost to this service but more  to do with going beyond  what is reasonably 
required to complete the goal of switching pension provider. He said he needed to phone  his 
current provider for particulars as PensionBee had not relayed these to begin with. He felt 
that the support provided by PensionBee  fell short of the level expected  in the conduct of 
business source book.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the arguments put forward by PensionBee. They argue the suggestion  
that Mr N might transfer and then reverse the transfer which could be material inconvenience 
wasnt mentioned  and couldnt  be assumed from the correspondence.
I said that  he complains that having  to wait for information post transfer might mean he 
needed to transfer again. While I accept this isnt stated  directly I remain of the view that 
this is the implication of his email. I say that because Mr N expressed shock that he cannot 
Ref: DRN69217615get the information he wants until he joins and wants confirmation this is compliant and 
further that he wasnt told of the cooling off period. 
In effect he is reflecting  back to Pension Bee that he is being told hed need  to transfer in to 
get information and then if that information is not what he hoped hed need to transfer out 
using the cooling  off period. For any consumer that would be material inconvenience  and a 
very cumbersome way to get the information he wanted. His expression of shock  is 
understandable. These statements taken as a whole in an email to the complaints  box are in 
my view sufficient  to satisfy the requirements  of the rules for the reasons given.
I dont think this required it to predict a hypothetical and unlikely future  course of action from 
a single email query and then to assign some  level of hypothetical  potential  future  
inconvenience. Instead it is reflecting back to PensionBee  that their process  could create 
this pattern of behaviour. 
It also said that even  if that argument  was wrong,  Mr N wouldve been  able to cancel his 
transfer as soon as he had received the illustration and well in advance of the time the 
transfer had actually completed. That wouldve meant he would not have been  
inconvenienced with returning  at all. 
But I dont agree. That would require a very tight turnaround of information  by PensionBee 
and quick consideration by Mr N to make a decision to reject.  In addition it would also 
assume the transferring provider would accept  the return which cannot be guaranteed. I 
think such a process would cause inconvenience.
So for the reasons given I remain of the view that this is complaint within the rules that I can 
consider.
Turning now to Mr Ns comments he clarified that hed asked for risk scores (or similar) and 
said hed noticed  they had risk/reward  profiles  on their website. He also asked whether the 
scores were  calculated by them or some other organisation. He said the reply from 
PensionBee said that risk profiles of each  plan are determined by the relevant fund 
manager. However this didnt  address  the issue of risk scores but instead dealt with risk 
profiles
He said what he wanted to know was whether there were  scores similar to the FE risk score.
However having reviewed  the original email he doesnt specifically refer to the FE risk score 
and then refers  to risk/reward profiles  on the website. So while Mr N may have  had particular 
information in mind I dont  think his request  was specific  enough to make that clear to 
PensionBee and I think their reply  was reasonable in the circumstances. 
He also said his complaint was also more  to do with going beyond what is reasonably  
required to complete the goal of switching. He needed to phone his current  provider for 
particulars as PensionBee had not relayed these to begin with. He said hed asked about the 
process e.g. if it would  be done on line, how long it might take and whether  he should be 
given access to illustrations. He said his existing provider said this depended on the systems  
they had and that illustrations would typically be on the website. But PensionBee couldnt 
locate these illustrations  and told him a report was produced after sign up. He felt that the 
support provided  by PensionBee fell short  of the level expected in the conduct of business 
source book.
Ref: DRN69217616But I dont agree. I can see from the correspondence  that PensionBee were  contracted by 
Mr N early one morning  and receive  a reply within less than two hours. He replies early the 
afternoon and receives another  reply by the end of the same afternoon. Some time later he 
sends an email to the complaints in box which I have considered above. 
I have already considered the provision  of information before providing services in my 
provisional decision so there is no need to consider this further. I have reconsidered  the 
replies from PensionBee and think they were rapid and the contents of the replies were 
reasonable. They may not have contained what Mr N hoped, but I think they demonstrate  
PensionBee was acting honestly,  fairly  and professionally as required by the rules. 
So having  reconsidered  my provisional  decision in the light of these further  submissions I 
have not changed my view.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  but do not make  any further  direction.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6921761