K821x#15complaint
Ms S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank  Plc refuses  to refund a number of payments she made 
after falling victim to a scam.
background
Between 22 June  and 25 October 2017 Ms S made  25 transfers, totalling £90,760 from her 
current account to what she thought  were  trading accounts held by an ex-colleague (with 
whom she had recently become reacquainted)  who had told her he would invest the money  
and provide substantial, guaranteed returns.
The promised returns did not materialise and the ex-colleague stopped  responding to Ms Ss 
contact when she queried this. At that point  Ms S realised  shed  been  scammed and 
contacted HSBC to report  the fraud.  HSBC  said the receiving bank had confirmed  the money 
had already been removed from the accounts and it couldnt do anything further to help 
because shed authorised the payments. Ms S remained unhappy so referred her complaint 
to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month setting out why I thought the bank should  
have done more to prevent Ms Ss losses and what it ought to do to put things right. I said, in 
summary, that:
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected  to process  
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations (in this case the 2009 regulations)  and the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  That was the case  when these events transpired, 
and remains so now, and I took that into account  when deciding  what is fair and 
reasonable in this case. But there are other considerations  too.
As a matter of good industry practice, when these events transpired, I considered  firms 
should have taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam.  
It wasnt in dispute  that Ms S authorised all of the payments. But I believed  shed done 
so after falling victim  to a particularly  cruel  scam.
I thought the first transfer to the fraudster was significantly unusual  and out of character 
when compared  to Ms Ss previous account activity. She had a history  of moving a few 
thousand pounds  between her own accounts,  particularly  after receiving her salary.  But 
all the disputed transfers were made to one of two new payees that shed  created  under 
the scammers instruction. And Id seen  little to suggest a history of setting up new 
payees and using them to repeatedly send large sums of money  which, at the start of the 
scam, were £3,000  or more in value. Yet at no point  did it appear that HSBC had blocked 
Ref: DRN61892542or queried  any of the transfers. I thought  the very first transfer should have prompted 
HSBC to carry out additional  checks. 
I thought if the bank  had made  enquires with Ms S, it would likely have been  able to 
prevent her losses. I shared what Ms S had told us about  her personal and financial 
situation and how the scammer  had taken advantage of her emotional vulnerability,  
building her trust in him and then using  this to persuade  her to part with her money. Ms S 
had only been  able to provide evidence of some  of the contact shed had with the 
scammer. But I thought  her recollections had been consistent throughout and I found 
what shed said both plausible and persuasive.  If HSBC had taken  steps to contact  Ms S 
and asked questions  about the transfers, I thought she wouldve answered honestly  (the 
scammer hadnt told her to give a cover story) and HSBC couldve broken the spell the 
scammer had woven. I thought discussions with Ms S wouldve revealed that she didnt  
really understand  where her money was going  and the promised returns  were too good 
to be true. Ms Ss situation  shared  similarities with the tactics typically employed by 
fraudsters in both romance  and investment  scams. I thought HSBC should  have 
been familiar with those  common  scams  and taken that into account  in its discussions 
with Ms S. So the bank could (and arguably  should) have prompted  Ms S to ask the 
scammer some further questions and for further  evidence to support his claims before 
allowing the transfers to be made.
I considered whether  Ms S should bear some responsibility by way of contributory  
negligence. But it was clear to me that, up to and including  the time of authorising the 
payments, she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she was 
doing or the consequences of her actions. The scammer posed as her friend  and 
confidante, using  the knowledge he gained about  her private  life to take advantage of the 
relationship. I was satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion and 
Ms S was simply  the unwitting  and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. So I thought 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably reimburse Ms S for the losses she suffered without 
any reduction. 
As I thought HSBC  shouldve made  enquiries  about the very first, £3,000, payment to the 
scammer I said it should reimburse  this and all subsequent payments except for the one 
made on 31 July 2017  which  seems  to have followed  a £7,000 payment into the account 
from the scammer. I also thought the bank  should pay 8% per year simple  interest  on 
each transaction  to take into account Ms Ss circumstances, including that she had been 
deprived of the money she unwittingly sent to the fraudster.
Ms S accepted my provisional  findings, but HSBC did not. It said, in summary, that:
It was unreasonable  for me to accept Ms Ss recollections of events with little supporting  
evidence and which were given with the benefit  of hindsight. The evidence that is 
available wasnt give to the bank at the time Ms S made the payments, so wouldnt have 
helped it to uncover  the scam.
I relied, inappropriately,  on certain codes of conduct and best practice. I referenced 
various overarching  provisions but didnt explain the basis  for my conclusions which are 
inconsistent with some,  recently clarified, legal  standards. The High Courts  recent  
decision on Philipp vs Barclays Bank PLC should be taken into account. In particular that 
there is no obligation for the bank to second-guess or question  its customers  when 
processing their payment  requests.  I should have explained why I was departing from 
this legal case and why I thought the bank ought  to have done more.
Ref: DRN61892543Given the way this scam played  out, its not realistic to have expected  the bank to had 
disturbed the scam when Ms S placed  the first payment instruction. Its not clear that 
Ms Ss friend had always intended on defrauding her and, given  her relationship  with 
him, the bank wouldnt, as I suggested, have been  easily able to unveil the scam in the 
early stages.  Nor is it safe to assume how Ms S would  have  reacted  if the bank had 
questioned her.
Ms S failed to carry out appropriate background checks before sending  money  to the 
scammer. There  are inconsistencies in her recollections of her historic  relationship  with 
the scammer. The contracts the scammer gave her were  very basic and wouldnt have 
given a reasonable person comfort  that genuine investments were  being made. The 
promised returns were  unrealistic  and Ms S acted  unreasonably  in just accepting  what  
she was being  told. Ms S acted extremely carelessly and she has now accepted that she 
should have done  more, yet I ignored  that admission when making my decision.  Its not 
fair or reasonable  to hold the bank  liable for failing to prevent the scam  yet placing no 
liability with Ms S.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what HSBC said in response to my provisional findings  but it doesnt  
change my overall conclusions. 
HSBC maintains that too high a standard has been  applied to what  is expected  of it in terms 
of identifying payments  that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial harm. I am also 
aware of the recent Philipp judgment  where  the judge took a different view about the 
Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting  the Quincecare duty applies to this case.  And, 
notwithstanding what the judge said, we have a duty to resolve complaints based on what 
we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. I must take into account  
not just the law, but also regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of practice and what 
I consider to have been good industry  practice  at the time.
Having done that, despite what  HSBC says, I still believe the first transaction was 
significantly unusual, given Ms Ss historic  account activity, and should have prompted  the 
bank to make further enquiries. Ms S didnt realise then, or for some  considerable time 
afterwards, that the individual who she believed  to be her friend and confidante was actually 
a scammer.  She was inexperienced with regards to investing, but didnt make  any additional 
enquiries or undertake any background checks because she trusted him implicitly. Its clear 
now that she made a serious mistake in that respect. But, given the circumstances she had 
described I can understand  how that happened. And her subsequent  admission that she was 
silly to believe him does  not change that  she realised this after the scam  had been  
uncovered and when her mental health  was in a better  state. 
Despite Ms S having bought into the scammers story, I still think the bank couldve broken 
the spell at the point  the first payment was made.  And I have to make assumptions about  
this because the bank failed to question Ms S in the way I think  ought to have been 
prompted by that first, unusual transaction. As Ive already said, Ms S didnt know  she was 
being scammed at that point but Im satisfied,  on balance and given what  happened  next,  
that the scammer never  really intended  on returning  her money  along  with the promised 
Ref: DRN61892544profits. I do still think the story the scammer  gave Ms S bore the hallmarks of a scam. And 
this shouldve prompted the bank  to warn Ms S about this possibility, enquire what  returns  
had been promised and advise her to carry out additional check to ensure her friend did 
work for the company and in the role he claimed. Its true to say Ms S trusted her friend at 
that time but that doesnt mean she wouldve simply waived away  the banks questions and 
concerns. I think most members of the public would take seriously  any warnings given by 
their bank and havent  seen  anything  to suggest  Ms S would not have similarly done so.
In all the circumstances, I remain satisfied that HSBC could have  prevented Ms Ss losses 
and I do not think  her actions mean that her compensation  should be reduced.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to:
Reimburse all of the transfers Ms S sent to the scammer with the exception of the £7,000  
payment on 31 July 2017; plus
Pay 8% simple interest per year on each transfer  amount, calculated from the date Ms S 
made the transfer to the date of settlement*. 
*If HSBC considers  its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Ms S how much  its taken off. It should  also give her a certificate 
showing this, if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6189254