K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance  (PPI).
background
I understand Mr W bought  the PPI in 1996  at the same time as taking  out a personal loan. 
The loan included an amount to pay for the PPI policy, which Mr W was also charged 
interest on.
Mr W says the PPI was sold in a meeting. Lloyds cant confirm this but has assumed the 
sale took place  in a meeting at a branch.
Mr W says he was unaware  he had PPI on the loan and didnt  need  it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ws complaint didnt  uphold it. Mr W disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached 
this conclusion.
Neither Mr W nor Lloyds  has been able to give us much detail about  what happened at the 
time of the sale. And we dont  have  much information about  the loan or the PPI, except the 
loan was for £1,500 and lasted for two years.
Lloyds hasnt been able to give us a copy of Mr Ws signed loan agreement.  But we do have 
a sample of a loan agreement it says wouldve been used at the time for PPI sold in a 
branch meeting. I think its likely  this is representative of what Mr W wouldve seen. This 
makes it clear the PPI is optional  there are Yes  and No options that can be selected 
depending on whether or not an applicant wants PPI. 
Mr W says he wasnt  aware he had PPI. But he hasnt been able to give us anything  to 
support what he says (which, given  the time thats  passed, is understandable).  It is possible 
things happened  as he describes and PPI was added to his loan without his agreement. But, 
given our knowledge of Lloydss sales process  at the time, I think its more  likely it was 
discussed and he agreed to it  and thats why it was added to his loan. What Mr W says on 
its own isnt enough  for me to think I can fairly and reasonably uphold  his complaint on this 
point. 
Lloyds says it recommended the policy to Mr W, so it needed to make  sure it was suitable  for 
him. I dont  know what steps Lloyds  took to do this. But Ive looked at what  Mr W says of his 
circumstances at the time. And, although  Lloyds doesnt have a policy document  for the time 
when Mr W bought the cover, it has shown us one from a few months later that I think is 
likely to be representative of the policy terms that applied  to Mr Ws PPI. From  these things, I 
think the PPI was suitable for Mr W because:
Ref: DRN68390152Mr W was likely to have been  eligible for the policy. He wasnt  affected by any of the 
things the policy  is likely  to have excluded or restricted  like known health problems 
or unusual employment terms. So I think he couldve claimed the full policy benefit if 
hed needed  to.
Mr W says he wouldve got good  sick pay, had some savings and other insurance 
policies, as well as a partner  who worked  full time. But the PPI wouldve  paid his 
monthly loan repayments for up to the length of his two year loan if he was off work  
sick  and any successful claim  wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay. It would also 
have covered  his loan repayments  for up to a year if he lost his job. So, even  with his 
workplace and other benefits,  I think the PPI could still have been of use to Mr W.
Looking at the likely total cost of the cover  (including the interest Mr W is likely to 
have been charged  by Lloyds)  and at his likely monthly loan repayment amount, if  
Mr W made a claim the amount he couldve got back under the policy  couldve been  
quite a bit more than he paid for it. And I havent  seen anything  to make me think    
Mr W couldnt afford the premium.
Mr W would only have got a limited refund if he cancelled the policy  before the end of 
the two-year loan term. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr W thought at the 
time of the sale he might  repay his loan early. So I dont think this made the PPI 
unsuitable for him.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr W information  
about the key features of the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading.  From  the sample 
loan agreement Ive got, it seems  the cost of both the loan and the policy over the term were 
shown and the monthly repayments for each. But there were some failings, in that neither  
the total interest on the PPI loan nor its total cost was shown.
Lloyds says the interest Mr W wouldve been  charged  over the loan term is likely  to have 
been around £51. Ive already said I think its likely Mr W agreed to buy the cover and it was 
suitable for him. I dont think knowing more about  the amount  of interest hed be charged,  
which it seems  wouldnt  have significantly increased his borrowing, wouldve  stopped  him 
buying the PPI.
From all of this it follows that I dont think Mr W has lost out because  of anything Lloyds did 
wrong during  the sale. So theres  nothing  it needs to do to put things right.  I know this 
outcome will disappoint  Mr W but I hope the reasons Ive given in my decision help him to 
understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Finally, Mr W has said he doesnt  understand why Lloyds  upheld his complaint  about the 
sale of PPI in relation  to one loan he took out  but not this or another  loan. I dont  have any 
details about Lloyds reasons for upholding his other  complaint on this loan, so I cant  
comment on it. All I can say is that, on the facts and circumstances of this particular 
complaint, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold  it.
Ref: DRN68390153my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6839015