K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) reduced the credit limit on his credit card 
and told him he had asked for the reduction.
background
Mr B says he received  a text message from Aqua in January 2019 telling him the credit  limit 
on his credit card was being reduced. He says he called Aqua and it told him it had been  
reduced because  he asked for the reduction. Mr B says that was not correct  and Aqua some 
days later accepted it made a mistake and paid him £20 compensation. He says Aqua  
unfairly refused  to increase  the credit limit to the previous amount and hes now over the 
credit limit as a result.
Aqua accepts it made a mistake by giving Mr B incorrect information but it says it made the 
correct decision to reduce  Mr Bs credit limit. It says it acted in line with the account terms 
and conditions and allowed Mr B an opportunity to bring the credit limit below the new level.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought both sides  could have done 
more. The investigator  thought Aqua should have given Mr B notice of the reduction but that 
it had tried to help Mr B after the reduction had been made. The investigator thought Mr B 
should have continued to make payments and spoken to Aqua about  the debt. 
The investigator recommended  Aqua pay £50 compensation for the failure  to communicate 
the change to Mr B.
Aqua says it doesnt  notify its customers of this type of change as it could  provide  an 
incentive to spend and so it doesnt  think it should pay further  compensation.
Mr B doesnt  think the compensation  recommended by the investigator goes far enough and 
says he has called Aqua  about three  times since the reduction.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to similar 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  but for slightly different reasons which I will explain.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account which I think Mr B would have agreed 
to when the account was opened.  And I can see that those terms and conditions allow Aqua 
to, as in this case, reduce  the credit limit of Mr Bs account. So Im satisfied Aqua is entitled 
to reduce that limit and hasnt made a mistake  by doing so. I also accept that in line with the 
account terms and conditions Aqua isnt required to provide notice of that reduction  and so I 
dont think it made a mistake or acted unfairly  by not providing Mr B with notice of that 
change.
I accept that as a result  of the credit  reduction  Mr B was over the credit limit. In those 
circumstances I would  not have concluded that it would have been fair for Aqua to charge an 
over limit fee. But I can see that it didnt charge that fee and allowed  Mr B a significant period 
of time to bring the account below the new credit  limit. I can see that Mr B hasnt made any 
payments for some time and so has been charged a number of account fees. In those 
circumstances I hope Mr B will speak to Aqua about  the amount he owes as Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN68302572that he still needed to make  minimum account payments regardless of the outcome of this 
complaint.
There is no dispute here that Aqua  made a mistake  by telling  Mr B that he had asked for the 
credit limit reduction when  he hadnt. I can see that Aqua has apologised for that. But I dont 
think the compensation offer goes  far enough.  I have no doubt Mr B was caused  frustration 
by being told something that wasnt correct and that he would have been caused 
inconvenience in trying to explain that to Aqua. So Ive come to the overall view that Aqua 
should increase  the compensation to £50 in total which I think fairly  reflects the level of its 
mistake and the impact  it had on Mr B. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  NewDay  Ltd (trading as Aqua) 
to pay further compensation to Mr B of £30 making  a total of £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6830257