K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
Ms W bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint,  and Ill explain why.
Ms W said she was not aware  of the policy. FICL and Ms W agree the PPI was taken in a 
store and I think thats right.  FICL  has given us a copy of the application form that was 
completed for Ms Ws store card. There is a section  titled Payment & Purchase  Protection 
and the option to select PPI has been ticked in the box next to the wording Yes,  I want my 
Account covered. Ms W has signed  the application, so I think  this reflected what  she 
wanted. If she didnt  want the PPI she could  have questioned this at the time. So I think  FICL  
made Ms W aware  she had a choice about buying the PPI, and she chose  to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Ms W  so it didnt have to check if it was right for her.  
But FICL did have  to give Ms W enough information  to allow  her to decide for herself  
whether or not to take the PPI.
Its possible  the information FICL  gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And 
based on what shes told us about  her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover   for example, she was in full 
time employment  and shes said she didnt suffer with any pre-existing medical conditions. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time. So I dont think  better information about  
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ws comments, including what shes  said about not needing the 
PPI cover because she was entitled to six months  full sick pay followed by six months  half 
sick pay if shed been too ill to work. But the PPI wouldve helped cover her payments if 
shed lost her job or been too ill to work  until the full balance was repaid, or until she returned 
to work  and this would  have been in addition to any sick pay she mightve got and 
potentially for longer  than her sick pay would have  lasted. 
Ref: DRN68028562So overall, although the information provided  by FICL couldve been clearer,  based on what  I 
know about Ms Ws circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful for her and I 
dont think that more, or better, information wouldve made her act differently and not buy the 
policy. So I dont think Ms W lost out as a result of anything FICL mightve done wrong.
Ms W says that she has had several other  complaints upheld about  other  PPI policies with 
other businesses, so she doesnt  understand why this complaint isnt upheld  too. I dont  
know the details  of those other complaints, but each decision is made based on the 
individual circumstances  of the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6802856