K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out the PPI in April 2001 at the same time as he arranged the credit card in 
branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S says there was no mention of PPI during the meeting  and he knew  nothing  about it, 
therefore it must have  been added to the credit card account without his knowledge or 
consent. The credit  card application  form has a separate section  for insurance. There is a 
pre-printed cross in the box to request PPI. From  what we know  of BoSs  sales processes  at 
the time,  I think there  would have been a discussion about PPI and that the cross would only 
have been entered in the box if Mr S said that he wanted the policy. The relevant section of 
the application form also has the option  to select another insurance product, but the box next 
to that has been  left blank  to decline it. If, as Mr S has said, the adviser automatically added  
the PPI to his account, I might have expected him to end up with all of the available 
insurance options.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ss recollection  of the 
sale has faded. Ive thought very carefully about  what Mr S has said,  but looking  at the 
evidence, I think it is more  likely that the optional nature  of the policy was explained. It 
seems to me that Mr S probably  decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he 
no longer remembers  doing so.
BoS advised Mr S to buy the policy. Therefore in recommending the PPI to Mr S it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ss circumstances at the time,  it 
was suitable for him.
Mr S has said that he wouldnt have been  able to use the policy  as he received sick pay from 
his job. But this wouldnt have stopped  him from claiming as the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay. The policy would have covered the credit card repayments  for a 
maximum of 12 months per claim, so this was potentially  for longer than Mr S would  have 
received full pay for.
Mr S says he had some  savings. But having  the policy would have allowed him to retain 
these or use them to cover other household costs. So I think  the policy  could have provided 
him with a useful benefit at what would have been a difficult time.
Ref: DRN63695232Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of those  things. 
As I think  that Mr S had an interest  in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further 
information would have caused  him to change his mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mr S paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already offered to 
give Mr S back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more.
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6369523