K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED formerly  Callcredit 
recorded incorrect information against  his credit file. He wants  his file corrected and a fair 
amount of compensation.
background
Mr C says he noticed incorrect  information  on his credit file in 2012  for example it said hed 
opened an account with a bank  hed never  been a customer of. Mr C says his twin brother  
whose information  it appeared to be  complained at the time but didnt get very far. So the 
information wasnt removed from Mr Cs credit  file.
Mr C complained to Transunion about  his credit file at the beginning of 2019. By then some 
of the accounts  on his credit file were showing as in arrears, and he was being chased  by 
debt collection agencies.
Transunion investigated  Mr Cs complaint, after an initial delay,  and agreed  that there was 
information on his credit file that didnt belong there. Transunion accepted that this was likely 
as a result  of an error theyd made and offered to correct Mr Cs credit file. Transunion also 
accepted that it hadnt dealt with Mr Cs complaint as quickly as it should have done. 
Transunion offered Mr C £100  in compensation for the delays and the inconvenience.
Mr C was unhappy and complained to our service. Hes told us about  his personal 
circumstances and how these made  matters worse and that having inaccurate  information 
on his credit file caused him a lot of distress. He wasnt happy with the £100 Transunion  had 
offered, nor did he believe Transunion had corrected  all the errors on his credit file.
Our investigators view was that Transunion should  have told Mr C what  corrections it had 
made to his credit file  to reassure him that the errors had been removed - and pay Mr C 
£200 in compensation because he had found  it stressful to have  to keep calling Transunion 
and the other financial  institutions. He had also had difficulty in obtaining credit and this had 
left him in a vulnerable position financially.
Mr C didnt think the compensation our investigator  had recommended  was enough. Hes 
said £1,000 would be more appropriate.  He also didnt  believe his credit file had been 
corrected. The matter  has come  to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Transunion has accepted that there was information  on Mr Cs credit file that shouldnt  have 
been on there and that this was likely as a result of an error on their part. So Ive looked  at 
the impact this has had on Mr C in order to decide  what would be fair compensation. 
Mr C has told us that hes known about  his credit  file having  incorrect  information  on it since  
2012. It wasnt, however,  until 2019  that Mr C made a formal complaint  to Transunion. His 
brother had tried to get the information removed in 2012 but didnt get very far, and Mr C has 
told us that he also got in touch with Transunion although didnt actually complain. I can see 
that Mr Cs credit file showed  accounts  that didnt  belong  to him going into arrears in late 
Ref: DRN668786822017. He still didnt complain then. He only complained in 2019. By that stage Mr C was 
being chased by debt collectors and hes also said he had problems getting  credit.  In other 
words, by that stage  the incorrect information on his credit file was having a real impact on 
him. Given what Ive just said, it looks like the incorrect information  on Mr Cs credit file didnt 
have a real impact until late 2018. Had it done so earlier, I would have expected  him to have 
complained earlier.  Transunion accepts that there  was an initial  delay after Mr C complained, 
but it corrected Mr Cs credit file within a month and issued its Final  Response.
I can see that Mr C was worried  about  the information on his credit  file. Hes told us that he 
was concerned what other people might think of him because of the adverse  information. I 
can also see he spent a lot of time getting  information from third parties to show  that the 
information on his credit file was incorrect.  He wouldnt have had to spend  this time, or been  
worried, had it not been for Transunion making  a mistake.
When deciding on the amount of compensation Ive taken into account  the fact that Mr C has 
been chased by debt collection agencies  and has spent  a lot of his time getting information  
from third parties. Ive also taken into account  the fact that this issue  was resolved promptly  
by Transunion once  the complaint had been  made.  Finally Ive taken Mr Cs personal 
circumstances into account  as I can see this meant the errors had a greater impact.  I know 
Mr C wanted £1,000 in compensation, but having taken everything Ive just mentioned  into 
account I think that £200 is fair and reasonable compensation.
Ive also looked  into whether or not Mr Cs credit  file is now correct. Mr C wasnt  confident 
Transunion had removed  all the information  it should have done. I can understand why Mr C 
felt this given  the history.  I am, however, satisfied that all of the incorrect  information was 
removed a month after Mr C complained. So I wont be asking Transunion  to do more.
For the reasons  Ive given Im going to tell the business to pay Mr C £200  in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mr C.
my final decision
My final decision is that TRANSUNION  INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED should pay Mr C 
£200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6687868