K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains that Express Gifts Ltd recorded adverse information on her credit file which  
wasnt accurate.
background
Ms Ds account with Express Gifts was behind  with payments from October 2016 to 
April 2017 with the account reported as being  in default. Express  Gifts registered the default 
on her credit  file. Express Gifts passed  Ms Ds account to a debt collection company, who 
wrote to her in March  2017 to confirm a repayment  plan, with the first instalment being  14 
April 2017. 
Ms D said the outstanding  balance had been £1651.83, but after making ad hoc payments in 
January, February  and March 2017  each  for £50, she paid the remaining balance  of 
£1501.83 in April 2017, settling the account in full. 
In late 2017, Ms Ds credit file showed her account  was again in default. Express  Gifts had 
now sold Ms Ds debt to another debt collection company, who contacted her about the 
arrears on her account. After challenging  this, the debt collection company accepted  
Express Gifts shouldnt have sold her account to them as her account had been settled. 
After further contact from Ms D, the debt collection company agreed  it should have returned 
her account  to Express Gifts and removed  the default entry. This action should have been 
taken in September 2017 but it wasnt done  until early 2018.  The debt collection company 
accepted its error and compensated  Ms D £200.  
Ms D also contacted Express Gifts to find out why it had sold her account to a debt collection 
company when her account was settled. Ms D didnt get a final response letter from 
Express Gifts and so asked us to look into this.
Express Gifts accepted  that a mistake had been  made and that Ms D didnt owe anything  
further. It explained this had occurred  due to the introduction of a new system  and a £50 
credit that was applied  to Ms Ds account  on the old system hadnt  been  carried  over onto 
the new system.
Express Gifts says Ms Ds account has now been amended and shows the correct balance  
and it had asked  the credit  reference agencies (CRAs) to remove  the default from 
September 2017 from her credit file. It offered  to pay Ms D £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Ms D, at this time, was trying to re mortgage her home and feels  the impact  this had on her 
credit file meant she couldnt get the mortgage she wanted. And as a result she now has had 
to pay substantially more  for the mortgage she was able to get.
Express Gifts accepted  that a mistake had been  made, that it had apologised and increased 
its compensation offer to £100. Mrs H didnt  accept Express Gifts £100 offer. 
Our investigator said the mortgage lender based  its decision on a total credit score  and there 
wasnt evidence to show the declined mortgage was because of what Express Gifts had 
done. But she didnt  think the compensation offered by Express Gifts was sufficient given the 
Ref: DRN67976422delays in getting the issues addressed and the distress and inconvenience  caused to Ms D. 
She recommended Express Gifts pay Ms D £150.
Ms D didnt think the compensation went far enough  as she still felt she had suffered a 
financial loss because  of her more expensive mortgage. And Express  Gifts didnt agree with 
our investigators recommendation as it thought the compensation was excessive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im partially upholding 
this complaint. I will explain  why.
Having reviewed the account details  and notes it is evident to me that the account was being  
used by Ms Ds daughter.  Contact details held on the account had been changed to her 
daughters address and email account. The notes also show  it was her daughter who had 
regular contact with Express  Gifts, including making payments. But as the account  was in 
Ms Ds name, it is she who remained ultimately  responsible for any repayments. And it 
would be her credit file the account  would be reported on. 
In this case, there have been  a couple of issues which  have had an impact on Ms Ds credit  
file. From  late 2016, Ms Ds account fell behind with payments and in February  2017, as it 
was in arrears the account was defaulted. Express Gifts had an obligation to register  this 
information with the CRAs.  
Ms D did settle her account  in April 2017,  but despite this, her credit file would still show  she 
had defaulted  on the account. But it should also show the account had been settled and 
closed. I know this will disappoint  Ms D as she feels the settlement payment should  have 
resulted in the default being  removed from her credit file. But it doesnt, a default remains on 
a credit file for six years  even where  an account  has been settled in full. And this default 
would have been seen by any prospective mortgage  lender carrying out credit searches.
Express Gifts has accepted the further default  applied for the £50 arrears charge wasnt  
correct and it has removed this from her credit  file. But Ms D thinks  this second  default 
impacted on her mortgage application. 
But lenders  take a wide variety of facts into account when making a lending decision.  And I 
havent seen evidence to show that the error made  in late 2017 was the sole or at least  main 
reason for the decision to decline Ms Ds first mortgage application. And in any event, there  
was a correctly  recorded  default  on her credit file as I have  set out above. So I dont require 
Express Gifts to pay the difference in her monthly mortgage repayments. 
Express Gifts has increased its offer of compensation to £100.  But Ms D believed  her 
account had been settled  in full, so to find herself, again, in default would have been 
distressing, particularly as she was trying to re-mortgage her property.  Add to this the 
inconvenience of having to keep  contacting  Express Gifts to try to find out what  had 
happened, So, I find the investigators recommendation  of £150 for distress  and 
inconvenience to be reasonable.
Ref: DRN67976423my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Express Gifts Ltd to pay Ms D £150  for distress 
and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6797642