K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs G bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint  and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs G says PPI wasnt discussed when she took out her store card. The difficulty I 
have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs G and FICL when the 
policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
But I note that Mrs Gs store card application form was completed to show that she 
wanted the PPI cover. From what Ive seen, I havent been able to safely conclude 
that FICL didnt make her aware that the policy was optional. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. That means it didnt  have to ask about any other means  that Mrs 
G had to cover her repayments.
But even if FICL had recommended  the policy to Mrs G, it doesnt look as though 
it was unsuitable  for her, based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time. Mrs G says she was entitled to benefits  from her employer if she was off 
work sick, and that her husband wouldve covered her repayments.  She also 
mentioned other insurance she had for her mortgage.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to her employer benefits, and 
wouldve meant she could  use her sick pay to cover  other expenses. And it 
wouldve meant she didnt  have to rely on her husband.
I havent seen  a copy of the mortgage  insurance  Mrs G referred to. So I cant  be 
sure that the policy wouldve paid out on the same  terms as the PPI. 
Overall, I think its likely that Mrs G wouldve had some use for the policy,  despite 
her existing arrangements.
Ref: DRN61221212Its possible  the information FICL  gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs G would have been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I 
dont think better  information  wouldve stopped her buying it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6122121