K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the settlement proposed by Society of Lloyds in respect  of a 
claim for damage to their holiday home  under the structural damage insurance  cover of their 
building warranty.
background 
Mr and Mrs D bought  their property in 2010.  In September 2016  they made a claim to 
Lloyds because they had discovered cracking to their holiday let property. This was under  
the structural insurance part of the warranty (years 3 to 10). Mr and Mrs D submitted  a 
builders estimate for the repairs for over £99,000.  Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs D that in 
order to show that they had a claim they needed  to supply an engineers report  setting  out 
the damage in accordance with the policy terms. Mr and Mrs D had some trouble arranging 
such a report but in February 2017  supplied a report from a surveyor (S). Lloyds accepted 
that as evidence of a claim. The report essentially found that there  were  in places no wall 
ties which  had caused severe cracking  and recommended the rebuilding  of all the outside 
walls.
Lloyds instructed surveyors (P) who, bearing in mind the terms of the warranty,  produced a 
schedule of works which required repairs to the corners but not the rebuilding of the walls. 
Mr and Mrs D werent  happy with this and felt that Lloyds should pay for all the repairs  
recommended by their surveyor. Lloyds  decided to obtain a report from an independent 
engineer (A). A issued his findings in August 2017 which  were  sent to Mr and Mrs D. He 
recommended a site visit and some further  investigations to inspect the foundations by the 
digging of a trial hole.  This was done in October 2017. A then issued a further  scope of 
repairs, but again these did not include the extensive repairs  Mr and Mrs D thought 
necessary to stabilise  the building. Lloyds advised  in November that it would go ahead  with 
the repairs proposed  by A.
Lloyds addressed Mr and Mrs Ds complaints of delay and a complaint about  the way the 
engineer spoke to Mr D, and offered £150  compensation. After referral to this service our 
investigator proposed  that an independent third party engineer  be appointed to review  the 
case. Lloyds was prepared to agree to this provided that its representative  was present, as it 
was concerned that its liability under  the terms of the warranty  needed  to be addressed. 
Mr D wasnt prepared to agree to this. 
Mr D pointed out that over two years to settle  the matter was unacceptable and that he 
would have agreed to the repairs if Lloyds had agreed to the independent  report   he didnt 
accept that A was independent. He said that he had been told that the property needed 
inspecting every 48 hours. Since nobody on site was prepared  to do this and since  he 
couldnt rely on an inspection by a junior  employee,  he has been carrying  out inspections  
himself, which  involves  a 500 mile round trip. He believes  he should be compensated for 
that.
On review, our investigator  said that Lloyds proposals for repair  were  reasonable. He 
pointed out that the terms of the policy covered  the cost of repairing or rebuilding work to the 
housing unit where  affected by major  damage. Thus any defects discovered which hadnt 
caused damage wouldnt be covered. But he said that because  of its delays in progressing  
the claim Lloyds should  pay total compensation of £600.
Ref: DRN64816342Lloyds agreed  to the investigators proposals.  Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. Mr D said that the 
evidence he had supplied  showed that all the defects identified had caused  major damage 
so all should be repaired. He also thought the long delays  in processing the claim and in 
dealing with his complaints should  be taken into account. He also said that Lloyds should 
have agreed to the independent report on his terms as he couldnt afford the cost of an 
engineer or a surveyor to attend  a site visit.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out here the provisions of the warranty which apply as it is important to the outcome of 
the claim.  The claim was made under the structural insurance part of the warranty. This 
provides that:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and notified to 
the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in respect  of:
1)The cost of complete  or partial  rebuilding  or rectifying work to the Housing Unit which 
has been affected by Major Damage provided always  that the liability of the Underwriter 
does not exceed the reasonable cost of rebuilding each Housing Unit to its original  
specification.
For the purposes of this claim  Major Damage is a Defect in a load bearing element of the 
Housing Unit causing damage.
It has been accepted by Lloyds that the external walls of the property, particularly at the 
corners, have been affected by major damage  and are within  its scope of work. The report 
by A identified that damage as:
Lack of foundation support to cut stone  cladding on front elevation.
Cracking of stone quoins at all 4 corner joints with blockwork  on side elevations.
It proposes to carry out repairs to all four corners of the house to repair that damage. Mr D 
doesnt accept  that thats an adequate  repair He says the following repairs need to be 
carried out on top of those  proposed by Lloyds:
Front wall overhanging the sub base. Lloyds  proposed leaving this as it is and add 
additional support from underneath.  He believes this isnt an adequate repair and that it 
needs complete  rebuilding
Insufficient wall ties. Lloyds doesnt propose to deal with these as the defect isnt 
affecting the property.  Mr D asserts that is causing or contributing to the cracking.
Insufficient expansion gaps  as these arent  at the corners Lloyds wont  repair them.  
Mr D believes  they are causing the cracking.
Stone  work needs to be 125 mm amd not 100mm and a block wall built to support the 
Cornish stone wall. Lloyds refused to accept that this is the building specification  for this 
type of stone.
Ref: DRN64816343As Ive set out the liability of Lloyds  is to pay for the repair or rebuilding  of the property 
affected by major damage. Thus the defect  must  affect the housing  unit. There  is a dispute  
here between what  Mr D says and what the surveyors/engineers appointed by Lloyds say. 
I appreciate that Mr D appointed a surveyor to look at the damage in the first place. And no 
doubt the defects  S identified would be deemed necessary to carry out a complete repair.  
But despite  Mr Ds assertions that other  defects need to be repaired and that they are 
covered under the warranty I havent  seen any expert evidence to say that this is the case.  
The same applies to his assertions about the nature  of the repairs. So far there is a scope of 
works drawn  up/approved  by an engineer which  has taken account of the warranty terms. A 
has expressed confidence that the repairs it is suggesting will be adequate.
Lloyds has said it would  agree to an independent  engineer being appointed  but insists  that 
its representative be present. I think thats  reasonable, as it will be paying  for the work  and, 
as Ive said its only liable under the policy terms so that would have to be borne on mind  by 
any independent engineer. 
If Mr and Mrs D now want to take up Lloyds  offer of an independent inspection on behalf of 
both parties, they should get in touch with Lloyds directly.
Mr D says that the building is now suffering additional cracking  he should advise Lloyds of 
this. But overall, in respect  of the damage I think it reasonable  to accept the expert evidence  
concerning the defects  and policy liability. That evidence in my view supports  the scope of 
repairs proposed  by Lloyds.
delays
I should advise  that I can only consider the delays caused by Lloyds in processing the claim.  
I cant consider its handling  of Mr and Mrs Ds complaints. Complaints handling is not in itself 
a regulated activity  so my powers dont extend  to considering that. Nor can I consider any 
delays in our process.
The claim was first notified to Lloyds  in September 2016. It notified  Mr and Mrs D that it 
needed to have an engineers/surveyors  report as to the cause of the damage before it 
could consider its liability. In respect  of notification of a claim the warranty  says:
On discovery of any occurrence or circumstance that is likely to give rise to a claim under 
this section of the Policy  the Policyholder shall as soon as reasonably possible:
i) give written notice to the Scheme Administrator;
ii) take all responsible  steps to prevent further loss or damage;
iii) submit  in writing full details of the claim and supply all correspondence, reports, plans, 
certificates, specifications,  quantities, information and assistance as may be required.
The above  term is quite  wide in respect  of the information Lloyds can ask for. All I can say is 
that any request  must be reasonable. This was clearly an extensive  and complex  claim  
Mr D had submitted a builders estimate  in excess of £99,000. So I think  it was reasonable 
for Lloyds  to ask for an engineers/surveyors  report so that it could assess  whether it was 
liable under the terms of the warranty. Whilst I realise that Mr and Mrs D had to go to some 
trouble to get a suitable report, and this took some time, I cant hold Lloyds responsible for 
the delays from September 2016  through to February 2017 (when the report was submitted).
Ref: DRN64816344Following that, Lloyds decided that it needed  to carry out a survey as it didnt  agree  with the 
scope of repairs proposed by S. That took a while to arrange  as a decision  had to be made 
by the underwriters. The report  was completed by 19 May 2017. Lloyds sent the scope  of 
works (but not the report) to Mr D. He didnt agree and demanded to see the report.
Lloyds decided it would instruct an independent engineer, so didnt agree to releasing  the 
report at that stage. It instructed A in June 2017. A inspected the property  on 28 July, but 
couldnt release  the report until 22 August. This was because it had to obtain information 
from the claims administrators. It also decided  that a trial hole needed to be dug to inspect 
the foundations. This took place  on 5 October. Delays ware caused  again by the claims 
administrators and by trying to arrange  for the engineer himself to attend.
Lloyds wrote to Mr D to advise of its (unchanged) position on 23 November 2017. It has 
admitted that it was responsible for some delays,  particularly by its claims administrators,  
who had to be changed due to poor service. 
Unfortunately, surveys and inspections  do take time, particularly having regard to the 
location of the property  and Mr and Mrs D not wanting to disrupt  any holiday lets. I do think, 
from February to November 2017 Lloyds was responsible for some  delays.
guarantees
Mr D says that he repeatedly pressed Lloyds for its confirmation that the works would be 
guaranteed. As far as I can see its response  was that the work, if carried  out by it, would be 
insured until the end of the structural insurance period (April 2020) and said normal legal 
rights of recourse are available if such works fail, Lloyds could have been more  helpful here 
 if the works fail, it would  be expected to remedy them even if the warranty has ended.  The 
repairs have to be effective and the type of repair recommended here certainly  should  last. I 
can understand Mr Ds anxiety that the other defects may start causing  problems once  the 
warranty expires. But that is the nature  of such warranties  they only last ten years,  during 
which time most defects,  and any damage, should be expected to become apparent.
From the point of view of the proposed works,  Ive seen no evidence that Mr D was prepared 
to accept these  if he received assurances that the work would be guaranteed.
inspections
Mr D says he was told he would have  to carry out inspections every  48 hours. He has had to 
carry out a 500 mile round trip for each inspection.  He says he repeatedly asked  Lloyds if 
this was necessary.  Lloyds says that at the initial site meeting he was told they werent 
necessary. I havent seen  anything in writing to this effect.
But the requirement to carry out inspections wasnt imposed by Lloyds. This came from a 
site report commissioned by the site owners and addressed to the builders. Mr D says as he 
had the responsibility he was reluctant to allow any employee to do it. I see that the claims 
administrators did tell Mr D that he had a responsibility to ensure issues occurring at the 
property did not pose a risk to others  and that he should take all responsible  steps to prevent 
further loss or damage. But I cant say that that advice  was wrong. It was up to Mr D how he 
did that.
As I cant  say that the frequency of inspections  was required by Lloyds  or that its liable to 
him for his carrying them out, I cant say that it should pay his expenses. As there was a 
Ref: DRN64816345delay in arranging  the surveys I will take into account the inconvenience to him for this in the 
compensation award.
compensation
Lloyds has agreed  that it was responsible  for some delays during 2017. There was an 
allegation that the engineer was rude to Mr D (Lloyds has accepted this). I cant say that the 
delay since November 2017 is due to the claim handling. As Ive said I cant  take into 
account the complaint handling. As Lloyds has agreed to our investigators  proposal that it 
pay £600 compensation, I think thats reasonable and shall make  an award accordingly.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Society  of Lloyds to pay to Mr and Mrs D £600  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6481634