K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Marshall Motor  Group  Ltd (MMG) wouldnt let him end a Hire Purchase 
(HP) Agreement early with no financial loss, as it had done so previously. He would like to 
return the car at no cost to himself
background
Mr N says he took out a HP Agreement with MMG in January 2017.   He says as a regular 
customer he had been able to change his car every  12-15 months. But when he got the Hire 
Purchase Agreement he realised it was for four years.
He thought about not signing the contract  as he felt it might be difficult  to end a four year 
contract early with no financial loss. He says he only collected the car in February  2017  once 
he had been assured  he could still change the car early as he had done so before. 
Mr N says on that basis he went ahead  and signed  the contract. But he says when he tried 
to change his car in June 2018 he was told he would  need to pay between £8-10,000 to do 
so.
He says when  he raised  this with MMG it referred him to a customer  declaration form it said 
Mr N signed.  Mr N says the document is fraudulent as it doesnt have his signature on it.
MMG said that no assurance  had been given  that Mr N could end his contract at any time.  
And that Mr N was bound  by the terms of the contract he signed.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-From  looking at the HP Agreement  in dispute ,and previous HP Agreements Mr N 
took out with MMG, it seemed although  the agreements were  for 49 months Mr N 
seemed to change  cars after 12-15 months.
-I wasnt persuaded that Mr N only took delivery of his car some three weeks  after he 
took out the agreement due to concerns over the contract. I found the delay was 
more likely due to the time taken to source  a new car.
-It was surprising if Mr N had concerns about the agreement as the contract he signed 
was identical in its terms to previous contracts.
-I was unpersuaded  by the forensic  evidence Mr N gave to show he didnt sign the 
customer declaration  form. This evidence  didnt categorically state the signature  isnt 
Mr Ns.
-Mr Ns HP Agreement covered the statutory right to end the contact early  and the 
financial penalty for doing so. But made  no specific reference  to ending the contract 
early with no financial penalty.
-The main issue was what  Mr N understood when he took out the contract,  rather than 
what was in the contract itself.  And wasnt  that Mr N couldnt change his car or end 
Ref: DRN61378552his contract early. He could do either.  It was that he was quoted  £8,-10,000 for doing 
so.
-In phone calls Mr N supplied between himself  and an individual  who present at the 
point of sale I found the individuals  impartiality questionable .His main focus seemed 
to be to get Mr N as a customer.
-When, in these phone calls, Mr N referred to what he was told at the point of sale the 
responses back gave  no actual detail of what may have been or what  was agreed.
-I wasnt persuaded by Mr N saying he had changed previous cars with no financial 
loss.  In telephone record notes MMG supplied Mr N referred to ending his contracts  
after 12-15 months paying around £1,600.
-That Mr N had ended previous contracts early; there had been a financial cost in 
doing this, but not as high as he had been  quoted for this time.
-There was no guarantee given to Mr N at the point of sale that he could exchange his 
car with no financial  penalty.
-The problem was more the depreciation of the value of the car over which  MMG had 
no control. 
-It wasnt reasonable to expect  MMG  to take back Mr Ns car at a financial  loss.
-There was no evidence that MMG had deliberately delayed dealing  with Mr Ns 
complaint. We did ask it for more information. And unfortunately it can take some 
time for us to deal with complaints  due to the volume of complaints we get.
-There were  no grounds to compensate Mr N for continued monthly payments, the 
cost of an MOT  and replacement tyres  since he had continued to have use of the car.
-I was unable to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both MMG and Mr N have  responded to my provisional decision.
MMG accepted my decision and made no further comments for me to consider.
Mr N didnt accept my provisional decision.  He sent in a large  amount of evidence to support 
his response.  And I would like to reassure him that I have  considered  all of this very 
carefully.
Mr Ns main points  are as follows:-.
Firstly Mr N says there was no delay in the car being  available. If I have understood him 
correctly the car was ready to be collected  but a fault with the locking systems  was identified 
that needed sorting. He says the delay in signing the paperwork was only due to his concern 
Ref: DRN61378553about the contract. And he says during this time the dealership  kept offering him other cars 
which he feels evidences his concerns about  the contract. . He said he didnt agree to 
repayments starting. And asked to cancel the contract as he wasnt  comfortable with it.
If I accept the car was available  to collect I am still surprised  Mr N was concerned  about the 
contract since it seemed  an identical contract  to ones he had signed before.  Also if Mr N had 
concerns I am not sure why he then went ahead and signed the contract. 
I am also surprised that if Mr N was really  concerned about  being able to end the contract  
early, and feels that he was given  a commitment that he would be able to do so, that he 
didnt get something  in writing to reflect this.
I have seen an email Mr N has sent us from the dealer dated 1 February 2017 giving 
information on a new car. So I accept this was after Mr N signed the contract, but before he 
collected the car as he says.
But I cant reasonably  conclude from this that Mr N was concerned about the contract. There 
is no reference to that in the email. It could  equally be that Mr N wasnt  sure about the car 
rather than the contract.
Secondly Mr N has referred to the signature  on the customer acceptance form.  He has 
offered to provide the full forensic  report to show his signature wasnt  the signature on the 
customer acceptance form.  But he would  want  MMG  to pay for this. 
I dont think it would  be reasonable for MMG to pay for this. And I dont feel I need it. I cant 
be entirely sure whose signature  was on the customer acceptance form. But I am still of the 
view, as expressed in my provisional decision,  that the contract Mr N signed  is of more 
weight that the customer  acceptance form. And there doesnt seem  to be any dispute that Mr 
N signed that. 
I appreciate this is more  a matter of principle for Mr N as he feels  the business acted 
fraudulently. But that wasnt  supported by the forensic information Mr N did provide. I am 
surprised it didnt do so if that was the absolute conclusion of the report.
Thirdly Mr N has referred to the phone calls he previously gave us. He feels  the conversation 
with the individual present  at the point of sale demonstrates in his words   the approach and 
verbal false sense of security used  by the car dealer to sell (me) a car when in fact they 
knew the promises go against the terms of the contract. 
I have reviewed my notes of the phone calls I listened to. Unfortunately I do not agree with 
Mr Ns assessment. I still feel the main focus of the phone  calls was to get Mr Ns custom. 
There was no acceptance or agreement as to what was said at the point of sale.  I cant  
conclude from those  phone calls that Mr N was given any prior commitment about  the 
financial position if he ended his contract  early.
Mr N also feels  its unfair  that MMG in its investigation didnt contact the individual  Mr N had 
the phone  calls with. Its a matter for MMG as to what evidence  it choses to put forward  to 
support its case.  If we dont feel we have sufficient  information we can ask either party  to 
provide more. 
I didnt find the call recordings  Mr N provided were of value in supporting Mr Ns complaint. I 
dont feel I would have  gained more by asking  MMG  to speak to the individual  Mr N had the 
Ref: DRN61378554phone call with  given  the agreement was taken  out some years  before and recollections of 
events change.
I feel if the individual had some specific information  to share its more likely he would have 
shared it in a phone call with Mr N than through  an official request from MMG.
Mr N also feels  phone  calls with a current manager at the dealership  show that he agreed 
with Mr Ns claim and didnt  agree with the business approach. Again I have looked back  at 
my notes on those phone calls and I dont agree with Mr Ns assessment.  The individual 
makes it clear the matter  is out of his hands  as it has now become a formal  complaint. He is 
suitably empathetic  but I didnt feel I had any evidence to show that he agreed  with Mr Ns 
claim.
Mr N then says that he didnt incur any additional  costs when he previously changed cars as 
the £1,600 he mentioned in his complaint  and which I reflected in my provisional decision.
He says he was later given as a discount on a new car or a reduction on the original interest 
rate. I accept that might have been  the case. But as Mr N has also said this was all part of 
the negotiation with the dealer. Negotiations will vary according to the circumstances at the 
time with a whole range  of factors being liable to influence any negotiations such as 
deprecation and current  market value of a car for example.
 But in the absence of any specific evidence of an agreement to end his contract  early  with 
preferable terms I dont  think Mr N can say just because he reached acceptable agreements 
with previous contracts that MMG had to offer the same agreement  again.
Mr N makes the point that the devaluation of the car is irrelevant and the issue  is more one 
of fraud  and false promises. I do think the devaluation of the car is relevant. And I dont feel 
Mr N has provided any evidence of fraud  or false promises
Finally Mr N has said he doesnt feel that MMG carried out a fair investigation. I am sorry Mr 
N feels that way about  the business investigation.  
I can assure him that this service thoroughly investigated his complaint taking into account 
information provided by both parties.  I appreciate it must have been disappointing  when Mr 
N got my provisional decision which didnt agree with the view our adjudicator made.
I have considered very carefully Mr Ns comments and the documents he has supplied after 
my provisional decision. But I dont feel Mr N has given me any significantly new information 
that leads me to conclude I should change my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6137855