K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the reason he was given  by Santander UK Plc (Santander) for 
declining his application for an overdraft.  He also complains that he was told he had to go 
into a branch to obtain a one time passcode for his mobile phone instead of being able to 
get it online or over the phone.
background
In October  2018 Mr M asked Santander  for an overdraft facility on his account. His request  
was declined - although  he was given  some advice on what he could improve so that he 
could reapply at some  point in the future. Mr M wasnt  happy and asked for his account to be 
reviewed.
In November 2018 Mr M called Santander  again to update his mobile phone number. He 
wasnt able to answer the security question that was asked so he was advised that  while  
he could change the mobile  number  at that time  he wouldnt be able to receive a passcode  
in order to use his phone  for full mobile banking.  He was advised to go into a branch to 
complete the change  of number. 
 
Mr M then complained about both matters. He said that Santander hadnt taken into account  
all his information from the credit reference agencies to support his overdraft request. And 
that hed already been into a branch and updated  his mobile number so he didnt understand 
why he would need to do that again to get his one time passcode.  
Santander said it had used all the information available to it from credit reference  agencies 
but unfortunately Mr M hadnt got a high enough credit  score to be offered an overdraft. It 
also explained the extra security involved in obtaining a one time passcode on the 
telephone, which it said Mr M hadnt been able to satisfy.
Mr M wasnt happy with Santanders  explanation and referred his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ms complaint and said it shouldnt  be upheld.  He 
said it was up to Santander whether or not it offered Mr M an overdraft.  He also explained 
the process involved for Mr M to obtain  his one time passcode  and felt it was reasonable for 
Santander to have extra security measures in place when providing such codes by 
telephone. 
Mr M didnt  agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having listened  to his telephone calls with Santander its clear  that Mr M feels  strongly that 
he should have  been given an overdraft  on his account, and that Santander should have 
been able to provide him with a passcode to use all the available  banking  services on a new 
phone. And I have  some sympathy for how frustrated he must have felt about that situation. 
But I dont think Santander  has made  any errors here  which  I know  will disappoint  Mr M  
so Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN61687552Ive first considered Mr Ms complaint  that Santander was unable  to give him an overdraft. 
But I should explain that the decision by a provider to lend to a consumer is not something 
we would usually  interfere with  thats  a matter for Santander. But we can consider if 
Santander mal -administered the application in a way that prevented  Mr M from obtaining  the 
overdraft facility. 
Here Santander has explained  that it didnt carry out a credit check  on Mr M as this would 
have led to leaving a negative footprint on his credit file. Instead  it could already see that  
based on information it held about Mr M, which included  information already provided by the 
credit reference agency, Mr M didnt  qualify for an overdraft facility. And I can see that 
Santander also asked  Mr Ms income   which he said was Nil, so I think Mr Ms lack of 
income combined with a low credit  score would have contributed to Santanders decision to 
decline Mr Ms application.   And I can see that Santander did explain this to Mr M and tried 
to suggest ways that he could improve his chances  of getting an overdraft in the future. So I 
dont think there was any mal-administration here.
I know Mr M thinks Santander should  have made further enquiries with the credit  reference 
agencies which he thinks would have made a difference to the outcome of his request. But I 
dont think that was Santanders  responsibility.  I think it was entitled  to rely on the 
information available to it from the credit  reference  agencies. If Mr M believes  his 
application was declined solely because of information held on his credit file he should 
obtain a copy  and if there is any incorrect  information he can take the matter up with the 
credit reference agencies.
So I dont  think Santander did anything wrong  in not giving Mr M an overdraft. It didnt have 
to give him credit and Im satisfied it gave Mr M a reason for its decision which  showed  it had 
taken into account  the information  from the credit  agencies when making that overall 
decision.
Turning to the issue of the provision of the one time passcode I can see that Santander has 
provided an explanation for why Mr M had to go into a branch to confirm his new phone  
number. It said that  because Mr M wasnt able to confirm his old telephone  number  during  
a call with an adviser,  the extra security  it had in place meant Mr M had to go into a branch 
instead. I dont  think this extra security is unreasonable,  I think its in place to ensure 
customers have extra protection against  fraud  on their accounts. I can understand that Mr M 
felt this process was unnecessary,  especially as he said hed previously been into a branch 
to add his new mobile  number  to his records. 
But in order to uphold  this part of Mr Ms complaint I need to be sure that Santander acted 
unfairly over this issue. And I dont think that it did. I can understand that Mr M isnt happy  
with Santanders  explanation of its process  but I dont think  it means Santander has made an 
error because Mr M thinks it should have  acted differently. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Ref: DRN61687553Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6168755