K822xcomplaint
Ms T complains about the service shes received from Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
following an investigation  that was carried out regarding alleged  fraud  on her bank account. 
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 20 November 2019.  A copy of it is attached  
and it forms part of this final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in my 
provisional decision and as such I wont reiterate it here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was planning on upholding the complaint and 
asking Barclays to pay Ms T an additional £100  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience it had caused her. I asked Ms T and Barclays to let me know  if there was 
anything else they wanted me to consider.
Barclays said it accepted  the provisional  decision and Ms T accepted my findings. She said 
she had just wanted acknowledgement that Barclays had made  some  errors.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Ms T nor Barclays  sent me anything else to consider, I see no reason to change  
my provisional findings. Im therefore  upholding Ms Ts complaint, for the same reasons 
given in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Ts complaint against  Barclays Bank UK PLC and require it to pay her an 
additional £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68034402copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms T complains about the service shes received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) following an 
investigation that was carried out regarding  alleged  fraud on her bank account.  
background
In November 2018 Ms T was involved  in a dispute that meant she left her accommodation and mislaid 
her bank card.  Subsequently a number of contactless transactions  were made from her account to a 
total of £190.20.
When Ms T realised the card wasnt in her possession she reported  it as lost to Barclays and the card 
was stopped. She was told to speak to the police and obtain a crime  reference number. When  shed 
done that she contacted  Barclays to ask it to reimburse  the funds. 
Just over a week later Ms T contacted Barclays for an update. She was advised  the claim was being  
looked into and will be processed within  the day. She rang back  later that day and was then told that 
there wasnt an update on her dispute but was advised that if its a merchant refund it may take two 
to three working days  for the funds to be credited. Ms T explained that she would  be unable to pay 
her rent without the funds but was asked to call the disputes team.
Because of the conflicting information shed been  given  and not having  received a refund   Ms T 
complained. She said she urgently needed the refund to avoid being  evicted from her home. On 
4 January 2019 Barclays upheld her complaint about the conflicting information and paid her £150 in 
total for the distress and inconvenience caused. It said she would be updated about  her fraud claim 
within five days. 
On 8 January 2019 Barclays wrote to Ms T asking  her to review  the information  it had regarding her 
claim and to sign and return some documents within 10 days.  It applied a temporary  credit to her 
account for the amount  of the disputed transactions, but said it would debit that amount back  from her 
if she didnt return the forms within 10 working  days. 
Barclays said it didnt receive the forms from Ms T so it took back  the funds  on 29 January 2019. But 
Ms T was able to show that shed  already previously returned the necessary disclaimers. Barclays 
accepted that it hadnt followed its processes correctly   on two separate occasions   so it decided to 
put the funds back into Ms Ts account because of its errors. It said that it didnt  investigate  the 
possible fraudulent account  activity in the end. 
Ms T wasnt  happy with how Barclays had treated  her and so brought  her complaint to us. She said 
she wanted  compensation  because Barclays hadnt tried to put things right and had continued to lie to 
her. She said the matter had affected her mental health and had caused her to be evicted from her 
property. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ts complaint  and said it should be upheld.  He said that  
while he noted Barclays had paid £150 for the distress caused by raising Ms Ts expectations over the 
timescales involved,  he thought Ms T had suffered  further distress and inconvenience as a result of 
the problems caused  by Barclays not applying  her signed disclaimer forms to the claim. He thought  
Barclays should pay an additional £200 for the impact that had on Ms T. 
Ms T thought  that was a fair outcome but Barclays didnt. It said it thought the compensation it had 
already paid was sufficient and asked  for the complaint  to be referred  to an ombudsman.  So it been 
passed to me for a review and a decision.
Ref: DRN68034403my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And although I agree  with the investigators recommendation to 
uphold the complaint I dont  agree with the level of compensation he suggested. So Ill explain  my 
reasoning. 
The disputed transactions have now been refunded and both sides agree  this is fair, so what  I need to 
decide is whether the compensation  our investigator has proposed is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
When Ms T first contacted Barclays to tell it about  a possible fraud on her account, it asked her to 
contact the police  and come  back  to it when she had crime reference  number. Ms T did that and 
contacted Barclays on 17 December 2018  to pursue  a refund of the transactions to her account. But 
she was given  incorrect  information about the timescales needed to get her money back   and had 
her expectations raised that she would  get her money refunded on two occasions. She was then was 
told, some three weeks  later, that the investigation was being  closed and reopened  from that point. So 
that in effect  that became the starting point of her claim.
I think  that would have caused Ms T some degree of distress and inconvenience as she would have 
been expecting to receive the money shortly after her initial request and clearly explained  to Barclays 
that she had an urgent  need  for it. I think she would also have  been affected  when she realised  the 
investigation about the fraud would  only be properly instigated some three weeks after her initial  
request. 
But when Ms T contacted Barclays to complain it did acknowledge that its service had been poor and 
that it had given her conflicting information. It listed all of its errors and considered that it should  offer 
£150 in total for all the inconvenience caused.
Ive looked carefully at Barclays reasons for compensating Ms T and I think its offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.  I think if Barclays hadnt made that offer I would  have awarded  a 
similar amount of compensation based on the impact Barclays actions had on Ms T.
But Barclays  continued to make errors after it set up the fraud  investigation again on 8 January 2019.  
It didnt apply  the disclaimer Ms T had provided when  she first made her request and cancelled the 
temporary credit it had made to her account when it didnt  receive the documents  even though it 
already had them  and could have applied them to Ms Ts records. In the end Barclays decided that it 
would refund  the money for the transactions  without fully investigating the matter of fraud  because 
of its errors.
I agree with the investigator that Barclays should have compensated  Ms T for this additional distress  
and inconvenience.  Ms T had a further three weeks of delay while her request was investigated  but 
actually Barclays didnt investigate  matters because it was waiting for documents  that it already had 
in its possession. I think  this would have frustrated Ms T because she still wasnt sure if she would be 
given a permanent refund  and shed  already  provided the disclaimer  document that Barclays said it 
was waiting  for. 
The investigator said Barclays should pay a further £200  for this additional distress  and 
inconvenience but I dont  agree. Ive seen that Barclays made a temporary credit to Ms Ts account 
on 8 January 2019, and although it took the money back again on 29 January 2019  it re-credited Ms T 
2 days later. So from the time Barclays said it would  look into the matter Ms T was only without the 
funds for a maximum of two days.  
So while I accept that it would  have been inconvenient  for Ms T to wait another  three weeks for a 
possible resolution  she did have the funds in her account for most  of that time.
Ref: DRN68034404For that reason, and having considered the impact this had on her, I think  Barclays should pay Ms T 
an additional £100. I dont think the distress and inconvenience caused after 8 January  2019 was as 
significant as that caused  from 17 December 2018 for which Barclays has offered £150.
Barclays has agreed to refund the amounts here as a gesture of goodwill because of mistakes it 
made. Investigations into situations like this can sometimes take time and involve fairly  detailed 
considerations. But Barclays  hasnt done that here, its just agreed to refund the transactions   which I 
think is fair. So the investigation may have actually have taken  longer than that if it was fully 
completed. So that also leads me to conclude that an additional £100 is fair compensation  for the 
distress Ms T suffered.
Ms T has said that Barclays errors and inability  to issue a refund led to her being evicted from her 
property. Ms T hasnt been able to provide any documentary  evidence to show that was the case  
but looking at the statement  of rent she did provide  from April 2019  I can see that the arrears  at this 
point were over £2,200. I dont think therefore it would be fair to conclude that Barclays delaying the 
refund of £190 between December 2018  and the 8 January 2019 could reasonably be said to be the 
reason for Ms Ts eviction.  
Ms T has also referred to mental health issues being made worse  by this matter. But neither party has 
been able to provide any evidence of this being previously  discussed. So I agree  with the investigator 
that Ms T should contact  Barclays  to make sure it is aware of any such  issues going forward.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  Im minded to uphold  Ms Ts complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.  
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms T £100 compensation for the additional distress and 
inconvenience caused.  It should also pay the £150 it originally offered  if it hasnt already done so.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6803440