K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the fact that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited took too 
long to deny liability  having received a claim against  him from a third-party representative on 
his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr H got a letter from Markerstudy on 14 March 2018 telling him a third-party had alleged 
hed caused damage to their vehicle in an accident. Mr H immediately rang Markerstudy and 
told them  it wasnt him. He then wrote to Markerstudy on 22 March  to confirm  this and 
explain why he couldnt have been  involved.  In the meantime,  Markerstudy  wrote  to the 
representative for further information. They received this information on 16 March.  It showed 
the driver  of the van involved wasnt Mr H and it looked like the van belonged to a company 
which had nothing to do with Mr H.
Mr H called several times to find out what was going on. On 9 April Markerstudy told him 
they needed to inspect  his van and they arranged  this. Once they got the engineers report  
following the inspection,  they wrote to the representative denying  liability on 18 April.  
Mr H complained to Markerstudy  about  the fact he kept having to chase  and that it took too 
long for them to deny liability.  But Markerstudy  didnt think  they had done anything wrong 
and rejected his complaint. Mr H complained to us, as he still didnt think  Markerstudy  had 
handled the matter well. He mentioned his policy was coming up for renewal at the end of 
April and the worry of losing his no claim discount and paying a higher premium caused him 
a lot of distress.  
Our investigator initially thought Markerstudy  should  have denied  liability when they got the 
information from the representative on 16 March.  And he said the fact they didnt do this until 
18 April had caused Mr H distress and inconvenience. He recommended  £200 in 
compensation for this. But when Markerstudy  said they didnt agree, on the basis  they had to 
carry out a thorough investigation before denying liability, he changed his mind  and said he 
felt Markerstudys approach was reasonable. 
Mrs H responded to the investigators second opinion  on behalf of Mr H. She said he still 
didnt think Markerstudy had handled the issue as quickly as they should have done. She 
also said Markerstudys staff werent very helpful  when Mr H telephoned for updates and 
gave him the impression  they may well settle  the claim from the third-party. She explained 
Mr H got a renewal quote of over £7,000, which he put down to the fact the claim was still 
outstanding. So, as far as Mr H is concerned,  Markerstudys poor handling of the matter 
caused him a great deal of distress  and inconvenience. 
I reviewed the complaint  and wrote to Markerstudy on 8 January. I explained why I felt they 
should have denied liability much earlier. And that I thought they should pay £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  their delay in doing so caused Mr H. 
Im pleased to say Markerstudy  have now accepted this and agreed to pay the £200 I 
suggested in compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62493292Markerstudy accepts that the allegation against Mr R looked like a case of mistaken identity 
as soon as Mr H said he wasnt involved. But they felt they needed more  than the 
information provided by the third-party  representative on 16 March  before  they could deny 
liability. But, I dont agree. It was clear  from this information that Mr H wasnt  the driver of the 
van and that the van in question belonged  to a company he had nothing to do with. And 
Markerstudy had Mr Hs written confirmation soon  after 22 March of what  hed told them on 
the phone. So, I think Markerstudy should  have written to the representative  at this point 
denying liability and removed  the claim from Mr Hs policy record.  Instead, they took nearly 
another month and arranged what seems to me to have been an unnecessary  inspection  of 
Mr Hs van. After all, once they knew he wasnt the driver and they knew  the van was likely 
to belong to a company, they could  have called the third-party representative and pointed  
this out, denied liability and suggested  they contact the company concerned. 
I appreciate Markerstudy  felt they needed to make further enquires to be sure,  as the 
registration number  given by the representative was of Mr Hs van. But  even if I were to 
accept this, Id still think  they should have been  a lot more proactive. 
Bearing in mind Mr Hs policy was coming up for renewal and the impact  a claim could have 
had on the cost of his policy moving  forward, I can see why he was very worried about the 
situation and kept chasing Markerstudy for an update. And, because I think Markerstudy  
should have denied liability much sooner and told Mr H this, I think they should pay 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he experienced as a result of their failure  
to do this. And, I agree with our investigators initial assessment of £200. As I think this 
adequately reflects  the level of distress  Mr H experienced, bearing  in mind he did find out 
before his policy renewed that a claim wouldnt be registered against him. And this should 
have been reflected in the premium  he actually paid.  
As Ive already  mentioned  above,  I put this to Markerstudy recently  and theyve agreed to 
pay the £200 in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. And Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited  must pay him £200 in compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6249329