K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains about the way Zurich Insurance  PLC ("Zurich)  handled a claim  on her home 
insurance policy.
background
In June 2016, Ms L made a claim  against her home insurance for an escape of water in her 
flat. She had an existing  claim  and repair works  for the previous claim were already taking 
place. Zurich accepted her claim and appointed a contractor to carry out the work  to her flat.
Ms L made a complaint  to Zurich in November 2017  about several aspects  of the work 
carried out up to that point , but they have been  considered separately. This decision 
considers only the issues not included in Ms Ls complaint in November 2017.
Ms L complains that Zurich hadnt  carried out the work to a satisfactory standard, items  were 
missing from her flat, that she hadnt  been reimbursed all of the loss of rent payments and 
that theses hadnt been  paid in a timely way and that she felt Zurich should cover  the cost of 
her council tax while  she was in alternative  accommodation.
Zurich agreed that the claim hadnt  been  handled  as well as it should  have  been  and offered 
Ms L £450 compensation in recognition of this. It also asked her to provide further evidence 
for several  items so it could consider them as part of the claim.
Our investigator didnt  think this part of her complaint should be upheld.  In short, he agreed 
that the claim had been handled  poorly but felt that the £450 Zurich had offered her was fair 
compensation to recognise the distress  and inconvenience it had caused her.
Ms L didnt  agree so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Zurich has agreed with Ms L that it didnt handle  this claim as well as it should have done. It 
has acknowledged that it should have  done more to ensure that Ms Ls loss of rent 
payments were paid regularly and as a result  of its poor handling, Ms L needed to chase it 
for payments  which  shouldnt have been  the case. Zurich  has also agreed to pay Ms L a 
cash settlement for the blinds that went missing during the repair  works,  which  is what  Id 
expect them to do in the circumstances. I believe Zurich has asked Ms L to provide it with 
some evidence of the cost of replacing the blind or a receipt for her original purchase.  Zurich 
is entitled to validate the cost of these  items  so Ms L will need to provide this information if 
she hasnt already done so.
Theres also an issue with the media cables in the property  Zurichs contractor has laid the 
floor over the original  cables. Ms L says the floor will need to be taken up to retrieve these, 
but Zurichs loss adjuster  believes  the cables can be rewired  into the property and has asked 
Ms L to contact her internet provider  to discuss whether this would be possible.  I believe this 
is a reasonable  next step  Zurich is entitled to explore the most cost-effective way of 
resolving any issues with the property and we would generally expect the policyholder to 
assist. But I would also expect Zurich to cover any costs Ms L incurs  as a result   which 
Ref: DRN69825442would include the cost of Ms Ls internet provider visiting and considering how it can set up 
the media cables.
Ms L has also raised concerns about  her council tax. She says her local council has refused 
to give her an exemption for her property being  empty as she applied too late. Ms L says this 
was because she didnt  receive a letter from her loss adjuster when she asked for one  and 
I can see Ms L has chased this on several  occasions. The correspondence  between Ms L 
and the loss adjuster seem to suggest that copies  of this letter had been sent but that they 
hadnt been received and this took some time to resolve.
Our investigator asked  Ms L to provide evidence that her application for a council tax 
exemption was declined due to her providing the evidence too late but she hasnt been  able 
to provide this. And when our investigator spoke to the local council, he was told that it would 
still consider an exemption for that period  of time.  So if her application has been declined, it 
seems likely that there is another reason for this. But without  further evidence,  I cant  fairly 
say that Zurichs agent was responsible for Ms L being refused the exemption and therefore 
I cant ask it to cover these costs.
Due to the nature of this claim and the full renovation that was required, I would expect there 
to be some inconvenience to Ms L but I think its clear that this claim hasnt been handled as 
well as it should have  been. And I can see that Ms L has had to spend  a considerable 
amount of time chasing  Zurichs agents  about  her claim and pointing out where repairs  
havent been finished to a reasonable standard. But I have also seen that Zurich has offered 
Ms L £450 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it caused her as a result  of this. 
And as I am only considering the issues Ms L raised  in her second complaint,  I think that 
offer is fair in circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6982544