K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Swinton Group  Ltd didnt make him aware of all the terms that applied to 
an insurance policy it sold him  terms the insurer later relied on when he made  claims. Hes 
also unhappy that his policy wasnt renewed  by the insurer  after his second  claim  despite  
having already  received his renewal  offer, and because  Swinton wasnt able to arrange  
alternative cover for him. 
background
Mr F took out the insurance policy for his business. Swinton is the broker that arranged  the 
policy  and its responsible for the sale. But the insurer  is responsible  for the policy terms, 
and any claims made.
Mr F first took out the policy in 2014.  In 2015 he made a goods in transit  claim after items 
were damaged whilst  being  shipped to a customer. In 2017 he made a second  claim after 
stock, a laptop, and a bike were  stolen from the open on the insured premises.
The first claim  didnt  progress because the insurer said it hadnt  seen  the damaged items or 
received the information it had requested. The insurer declined the second claim because 
Mr F hadnt taken out cover for stock  in the open,  and it concluded the policy  didnt cover  
personal items. Swinton said Mr F was supplied  with the terms of his policy  so it didnt 
agree the policy  had been mis-sold.
The second  claim  was made shortly  after Swinton  had sent Mr F his renewal offer. However,  
Swinton says the second claim meant the insurer was no longer willing to offer cover;  and it 
then couldnt find alternative cover  through its panel of insurers.  Because  the policy didnt  
renew, Mr F was left without  cover. But Swinton says this was outside of its control.
Mr F brought  his complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators,  but 
he didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt think it was unreasonable  that Swinton  couldnt 
provide the original sale call recording from 2014  given  the time thats since  passed. But he 
noted that Swinton had sent Mr F his policy terms and policy  schedule  which  outlined  his 
cover  and noted  the policy had since renewed on the same terms. He also agreed the 
renewal situation  was outside of Swintons control  and said the renewal offer wasnt a 
guarantee cover would be provided.  
Because Mr F disagreed with our investigator, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
The 2014  point of sale documentation shows that the policy  was recommended by Swinton 
after discussing Mr Fs requirements  with him, and assessing his needs.  I acknowledge that 
its unfortunate the call recording isnt available,  but I agree with our investigator that this 
isnt unreasonable after so much  time has passed. 
Ref: DRN66781822Because Swinton recommended the policy to Mr F, it had to take adequate steps to ensure 
the policy was suitable for him. We dont  have the sale call recording  to rely on  and the 
documentation we have been shown doesnt give much detail about Mr Fs needs  or the 
questions that were asked. But having thought  about matters carefully, on balance Im 
persuaded the policy was suitable for him. Ill explain  why.
Not all of the available policy coverages were  selected. But the point of sale documentation  
does suggest  that the amount of cover was discussed for the coverages that were selected; 
and the coverages  that were selected all seem  relevant for Mr Fs business   and hes not 
said otherwise. 
However, one of the reasons Mr Fs theft claim was declined by the insurer was because the 
stock and materials stored in the open coverage was not selected. But on balance,  I am not 
persuaded this meant the policy was unsuitable  for his needs. I say this because the nature 
of his business doesnt suggest stock or materials were routinely stored outside  and the 
theft involved unusual  circumstances in terms of why the items were left in the open. 
Im also satisfied that the policy  schedule is sufficiently  clear about what  cover had, and had 
not, been taken out; and we have been shown a letter addressed  to Mr F from the time of 
the sale enclosing  his policy schedule and the policy book, so Im persuaded he received 
these. The letter also encourages Mr F to review  the documents carefully to ensure the 
cover meets his needs. Therefore, if Mr F thought he had a need  to cover his stock or 
materials outside, I consider it likely he would have raised this when he received the 
paperwork.
Swinton also had to highlight  any unusual,  onerous, or restrictive terms to Mr F. But in my 
view, the policy terms the insurer relied  upon in respect of his two claims do not fall within  
any of these categories. As such, Im not persuaded that Swinton needed to have  pointed  
these out to Mr F.
So given Mr Fs circumstances and the cover  the policy gave him, overall Im persuaded the 
policy was suitable   and Im not persuaded Swinton did anything wrong in relation to the 
sale.
Swinton has given us copies  of the calls that it says are available  and some of those calls 
relate to when Mr F was attempting to renew  his policy soon after the second  claim. Having 
listened to the calls,  Ive seen Swinton was waiting for the insurer to make a decision on the 
second claim and on whether  it would continue to offer cover to Mr F, before Swinton could 
renew his policy. 
Swinton explained that it couldnt try to find alternative cover until the outcome of the second 
claim was known, and then those attempts were  unsuccessful. Ive seen that Mr F was doing 
a lot of chasing during the period  in question,  and he was left in the position of being without 
cover  so I do understand his frustrations. However,  I accept what Swinton says about  not 
being able to take any action until the insurer had made its decisions, and I have seen that 
Swinton was chasing the insurer regularly about this. 
I also appreciate that Mr F will have been further inconvenienced when Swinton couldnt find 
an alternative insurer to cover him. But Swinton  isnt responsible for the commercial 
decisions taken by insurers in terms of the cover  that is, or isnt, being offered.
Ref: DRN66781823So in conclusion, Im also not persuaded that Swinton did anything wrong in relation to the 
renewal of Mr Fs policy and him being  left without cover.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr F. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6678182