K820x#14complaint
The consumer complains  that Vanquis  Bank Limited  (Vanquis) hasnt addressed  him 
correctly in its correspondence with him and has refused to accept a bill of exchange as 
payment for his credit  card balance.  
background
The consumer took out a credit card with Vanquis  in October 2017 with a credit limit of £150. 
By August 2018 a statement sent to the consumer  showed the balance on the card was over 
the credit  limit and arrears had begun to build  up. 
The consumer completed the bank giro credit slip at the bottom of the statement  for the full 
outstanding balance  and returned it with a covering letter  as payment. The letter explained 
the giro credit was a bill of exchange  for the amount  owed. 
But Vanquis didnt  accept the bill of exchange  as an acceptable means of payment and the 
outstanding balance remained. 
The consumer contacted Vanquis  and said it had breached the Bills of Exchange Act 1882 
by not accepting the completed slip. He also complained that Vanquis had breached the                             
Crown Copyright Act by referring  to him as Mr instead of his name. He also said Vanquis 
employees should use their actual  signatures  on correspondence with him as opposed to a 
generic signature.
Vanquis questioned why it couldnt address the consumer as Mr and it also explained that 
under its terms and conditions it couldnt  accept payment of the consumers outstanding card 
balance by the means he had used. It explained  that the balance remained outstanding and 
confirmed the methods  it could accept for payment. Vanquis also invited the consumer to 
contact it if he was experiencing  financial  difficulties  and gave  details of the appropriate 
organisations he could approach for help. 
Unhappy with the response the consumer brought his complain to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  She said  
while we wouldnt comment on whether Vanquis  had breached the various  acts  we could 
look at whether it had acted fairly  in not accepting the bill of exchange.  She said that 
Vanquis terms and conditions clearly stated that it would only accept pounds sterling as 
payment. So she didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
The consumer disagreed as he believed Vanquis  hadnt followed current legislation  and 
should have accepted the bill of exchange as payment. He said hed seen on its website 
that Vanquis does  in fact accept promiser  notes  which arent legal  tender.  
As no resolution could  be found the complaints  been passed  to me for a final decision.  
The consumer has raised several issues with Vanquis but the outstanding issue  seems to be 
that Vanquis refused to accept a bill of exchange as payment  for the outstanding credit  card 
balance. So for clarity  this decision  only concerns this point.
Ref: DRN69025272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Im not persuaded 
Vanquis has done anything wrong  which I know will come  as a disappointment  to the 
consumer  so Ill explain why.
The consumer has referred  to a number of legislative acts that hes suggested Vanquis has 
breached to support his complaint. But our role isnt that of a regulator  nor is it that of a 
court of law. Our role is to tell both sides what we think  is a fair and reasonable conclusion to 
an individual complaint as an informal and impartial dispute resolution service.  So if the 
consumer wants a definitive answer in law to the questions he raises,  he will need to go to 
court for this. But what Ive considered is whether Vanquis acted fairly  in not accepting the 
consumers bill of exchange. 
The consumer believes that the bill of exchange  he submitted was a form of payment that 
Vanquis should have accepted under the Bill of Exchange Act 1882. And I can see that in 
some situations it may be considered an acceptable form of payment. But that doesnt mean 
that Vanquis has to accept such a payment. Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of the 
Vanquis credit card and under making  payments to this agreement  it states all payments 
must be made in pounds  sterling. Where  the money  is transferred electronically, the transfer  
must be from a UK bank  or building  society.  Where the payment is by cheque..  
So I think its clear what Vanquis would accept as payment   and the consumer accepted 
those terms and conditions when he opened  the account. So I dont think  Vanquis  did 
anything wrong  by refusing to accept a bill of exchange.
Ive also considered the situation if the consumer is unable  to pay his outstanding card 
balance because of financial difficulties. In such cases  Vanquis would have a responsibility 
to treat the consumer positively and sympathetically.  But I think this would be more  around 
accepting reduced  payments  or reducing or suspending  interest rather  than Vanquis having 
to accept a different form of payment. And any concessions would need to be after 
discussion with the consumer about  his financial situation and the submission  of an income 
and expenditure  breakdown if requested. 
Theres no evidence that the consumer has informed Vanquis about  any specific  financial 
difficulties hes suffered, so I would  urge the consumer to enter into a meaningful discussion 
with Vanquis to resolve this issue. And I would also recommend the consumer to consider 
approaching any of the debt charities  or other organisations that Vanquis made him aware of 
in its final response letter.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given Im not upholding the consumers complaint against  Vanquis Bank  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the consumer to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Keith lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6902527