K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) has declined his claim for a 
stolen motorcycle, voided his policy and kept the premium.
background
Mr O completed  his application for annual motorcycle insurance on 6 August 2018  using  an 
online comparison website. The policy started the day after on 7 August.
On 18 August 2018, Mr Os motorcycle was stolen and in November 2018, he contacted  
MCE to report the theft. MCE  asked  Mr O to provide  details of where  the motorcycle was 
kept when not in use. Mr O said it was parked in a garage. As part of the claims process, 
Mr O sent MCE  photographs showing the location of where the motorcycle would have been 
parked. They showed  that it was parked in an underground car park.
In March 2019, MCE wrote to Mr O informing  him that he had breached  his duty as a 
customer under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012  
(CIDRA). This was because when  Mr O took out the policy,  he said the motorcycle  would be 
parked in a garage.  The photos however showed  that it was parked in a secure underground 
car park. MCE therefore decided to void the policy from inception, retained all paid premiums  
and refused the claim as it was entitled  to do so under the Act. It explained Mr O had made a 
qualifying misrepresentation which it deemed to be deliberate or reckless. This meant the 
policy would be treated as if no cover  had been  in place  at any time and any claims made 
would also not be covered. MCE  added that had the question been completed correctly  by 
Mr O, the premium on the policy would have increased. 
Mr O was unhappy with MCE and referred  his complaint to this service. Our investigator  
looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought under CIDRA the 
misrepresentation Mr O had made was qualifying and was deliberate or reckless. This meant  
that MCE was entitled  to void the policy, not return  the premiums  and not pay the claim. 
As he didnt  agree, Mr O asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.  So the complaint has 
been passed to me. 
In summary  Mr O says he believes the underground  garage in his case has a designated 
space and is secured  electronically by a gate.  He believes that MCE is making this purely 
about semantics and is using  this as an excuse to decline the claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I also need to take into account  relevant law and regulations,  guidance and 
standards and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.  
Because the policy in question was entered into after 6 April 2013, the relevant law I have to 
consider is the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
Under this legislation, a consumer  has a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when applying for or renewing insurance. The law sets out a number of 
considerations which include that insurers should ask clear  and specific questions  about 
Ref: DRN63921702facts they consider to be material to the risk under proposal. An insurer  only has a remedy  
against consumers  if they breached their duty of reasonable care and there was a qualifying  
misrepresentation, i.e. one which  adversely affected the insurers ability to assess  the risk.
And the insurers remedy will turn on whether the qualifying  misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless,  or merely careless (in which case  there may be a more  proportionate 
remedy than voidance  depending on what would have happened without the 
misrepresentation). The burden of proof lies on the insurer  whos  alleging breach of 
duty/misrepresentation.
So taking the above into account and to show the policyholders had deliberately not 
disclosed relevant  information to the detriment of its underwriting, MCE first has to provide 
evidence that a clear  and specific  question  was incorrectly  answered in breach of the duty of 
reasonable care; and this adversely affected the risk it was proposing to cover. 
In other  words, MCE has to provide evidence to show:
What question was asked;
What answer was given; and 
The answer given  was incorrect.
When he took out the policy, Mr O completed  questions with an online comparison site and 
answered these relating  to the proposed risk of insuring the motorcycle. Ive seen  
information provided by MCE which shows Mr O completed answers  to questions on the 
comparison website relating to where the motorcycle would be parked. 
The question asked  was where is the bike kept overnight?
The choices Mr O had when he completed  the question were as follows:
Garage
Public Road
Drive
Car Park 
Locked Compound
Private Property
And, Mr O completed the question by saying the bike would be kept in a garage. While I 
appreciate Mr O believes that by saying he parked the motorcycle  in a garage,  its purely a 
case of semantics and he believes parking in a garage to be the same as parking in a 
secure underground car park with electronic gates. Ive considered this point and while I 
acknowledge that might be what Mr Os understands,  Im afraid I dont agree the two 
definitions to be the same. 
I think the question  Mr O was asked was clear  and the options had been clear  enough  in 
order that Mr O could  have chosen the correct answer from those. Based on the question 
asked, I think Mr O answered it incorrectly. The closest option was locked compound  but 
he chose garage. As such, I think Mr O breached his duty of reasonable care and this 
affected the risk that MCE was proposing to cover. I therefore think the risk was 
misrepresented and it was a qualifying one. 
Ref: DRN63921703Ive also looked  at what the policy documents said.  The key facts  document which provides 
some of the key points  relating to the policy specifically refers  to what a garage is and what  it 
isnt. 
Under the section  ARE YOU SURE YOUR  VEHICLE IS GARAGED? it states:
If we do not believe that where you keep your vehicle  can be classed  as a garage, you 
will not be able to make  a valid claim. Please  check with us if you are unsure.
A Garage IS:
A locked  structure  for housing motor vehicles  constructed of brick,  concrete, 
steel or stone which is your private property.
A Garage is NOT:
A rented/owned space in a shared car park
A parking area in/under flats
Any form of locked  compound
Any building not built for housing motor  vehicles such  as a home or a 
workplace
The same document  states in Section 1  Loss  or Damage:
If you have  stated that your motorcycle will be garaged, and a theft or attempted  
theft occurs  within the proximity of the declared garaging  address, we may: 
- Double  the policy excess that applies,  and impose an additional premium of £110.
 - Not pay the amount for theft or attempted theft.
I think the above document is clear enough in highlighting the summary points of the policy 
and to have prompted Mr O to check whether the motorcycle is garaged but it also goes on 
further to say if hes unsure, he should check with MCE.  Based on the above, an 
underground parking area isnt considered to be a garage. 
In his submissions,  Mr O has told us the motorcycle was parked  in a secure underground car 
park with electronic  gates.  I think the closest choice he had to the question about where the 
motorcycle would be kept overnight was locked compound. Even if he was in any way 
confused between which answer  to opt for, I wouldve expected  him to check his 
interpretation of the options with MCE. I cant see that he did do that. 
Additionally, there was a specific endorsement  on the policy  schedule  which
said:
"MCE5 Garaged Vehicle  Clause, increased Excess
You have  agreed  that you will keep  your motorcycle in a locked garage or building 
either at your home  address or an address declared and specifically agreed by us 
when your motorcycle is not being used.
A Garage is a locked structure  for housing motor  vehicles constructed  of brick, 
concrete, steel or stone  which  is your private property. It is not a rented or owned  
space in a shared car park, a parking area in/ under flats, any form of locked 
Ref: DRN63921704compound, any building not built for housing motor vehicles such as a home or a 
workplace.
If a theft or attempted theft of your motorcycle happens within the proximity of your 
home address or the garaging address when your motorcycle is not in a locked 
garage or locked building,  we will double the theft excess. There  will also be an 
Additional Premium of £110.00. Or not pay the amount for theft or attempted  theft.
MCEs argument is that Mr O has knowingly given incorrect information about where the 
motorcycle would have  been parked overnight. And having considered the policy schedule 
Mr O received from the insurer which notified him of the endorsement together  with the key 
facts document,  Im not persuaded  that he took reasonable  care in correctly answering  that 
question. So, on balance, Im persuaded Mr O did make a misrepresentation and breached  
his duty to take reasonable care.
As Ive already  indicated above,  CIDRA  details that an insurer  has a remedy against a
consumer (Mr O) where  the consumer has made a misrepresentation in breach  of the duty 
to take reasonable care,  and the insurer shows that, without the misrepresentation, it 
wouldnt have entered into the contract  at all (or would have but on different terms). Such  a 
misrepresentation is referred  to as a qualifying  misrepresentation and is either i) deliberate  
or reckless, or ii) careless.
A qualifying  misrepresentation will be deliberate or reckless under the Act if the consumer 
knew the information they provided  was untrue or misleading or did not care whether it was 
untrue or misleading  and knew that it related to something relevant to the insurer  or didnt  
care whether  or not it was relevant.  Otherwise,  the misrepresentation is just treated as 
careless.
Ive looked at the underwriting criteria  that would have been applicable at the time Mr O took 
the policy out. This confirms that had Mr O correctly  told MCE the motorcycle  was going  to 
be parked on a driveway, it would have increased the premium for cover.
Having reviewed the available evidence, Im more persuaded  Mr O made a deliberate 
misrepresentation rather than a careless  one. I say this because I dont think the question 
posed to Mr O about where the motorcycle would be parked overnight was unclear or 
misleading. While he says its purely about semantics, I dont agree. There is a clear 
distinction between  a garage  and secure underground car park with electronic gates.
Ultimately, Mr O has found  himself in this position by materially  misrepresenting  where  the 
motorcycle would have  been stored  overnight.  He had a duty of reasonable care to ensure 
he fairly presented  the risk to MCE but failed to do so. Its not unreasonable for MCE to void 
the policy. Thats the appropriate  remedy for a deliberate or reckless  misrepresentation. 
Voidance means  the policy is treated as though it never existed, so it follows  no valid claim 
can arise under it and also premiums  would not be refunded  to Mr O.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing to Mr O. But I dont think  MCE has acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in all the circumstances  and bearing in mind its strict legal rights 
under CIDRA.
Ive also considered the evidence MCE provided when another  of his motorcycles  was stolen 
in the previous year. At that point while the claim was accepted, MCE made  Mr O aware that 
he had made a misrepresentation on the same question. However,  on that occasion, as the 
Ref: DRN63921705policy hadnt been affected  by answering the question incorrectly,  MCE decided to pay the 
claim. So, in other words,  Mr O had been made aware that he had incorrectly  completed the 
same question in the previous year. As such,  I would have expected him to think  carefully 
about his answer  the following year, when he took the policy  out, knowing that the previous 
year he had completed it incorrectly. At the very least, he ought to have sought  clarification  
from the insurer. Ive not seen anything to show that he did do this.  
On balance, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless and not careless. It follows  therefore  that its 
reasonable and fair for MCE to void the policy, keep the premiums Mr O paid and decline to 
pay the claim. I dont  think MCE needs to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint against MCE Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6392170