K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L & G) declined a claim made  on 
his legal expenses  insurance (LEI) policy.
Any references to L & G include its claims handlers and policy  administrators.
background
Mr T suffered a personal injury in October  2016. He instructed a firm of solicitors to 
represent him and legal proceedings were issued. Mr T succeeded in his personal  injury 
claim and in December  2018, the court ordered the defendant to pay £4,000  to Mr T, 
together with legal costs.
The defendant sought to appeal the court order and Mr T claimed on his LEI policy to cover 
the legal  costs of defending that appeal.
L & G declined to cover  that claim. Initially it said the claim was excluded because  costs 
associated with an appeal  werent  covered unless the appeal  related to an insured event  that 
was covered under the LEI. As L & G hadnt funded the personal injury  claim, it said it 
wouldnt cover  the appeal (the first reason).
Mr T didnt  think  that was fair and complained to L & G. 
On 23 January 2019, L & G emailed Mr T standing by the first reason. It also put forward  a 
second reason  for declining the claim;  as Mr Ts personal injury pre-dated  the start of his 
legal cover under the policy, the insured event didnt  occur  within the period of insurance 
(the second  reason). Mr T didnt agree. Hes also unhappy that L & G put forward an 
additional reason for declining the claim.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint. Although he didnt think L & G had fairly 
declined the claim  for the first reason, he was satisfied that it acted fairly and reasonably by 
declining the claim for the second  reason. Mr T disagrees. Hes put forward a number of 
points in response to our investigators opinion. 
His complaint has now been passed  to me to consider everything afresh and make  a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
The LEI policy says:
We will not pay for any claim where the insured event does not occur within  the 
period of insurance
Insured event is defined  as:
An incident or event  which  results in a legal  action or enquiry for which  we provide  
cover
Ref: DRN66370952If there is more than one event arising  at different times from the same originating 
cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first event.
The LEI policy does provide cover for personal  injury claims and this was capable  of being 
an insured event under the policy. The defendants appeal against the court  order wasnt the 
insured event, but a continuation of the litigation process concerning the personal  injury Mr T 
suffered in October 2016. 
As the LEI policy wasnt taken out until November 2017 and Mr T sustained  his personal 
injury over a year prior to this date, Im satisfied L & G has reasonably  concluded that the 
insured event took place outside the period of insurance. So, I dont think it unfairly declined 
to cover the legal costs  of defending the appeal.  
Although the second reason relied  upon  by L & G to decline the claim wasnt put forward 
initially, L & G has said from the start it wouldnt cover Mr Ts claim and its still relying  on the 
first reason  initially put forward  by it. Its not uncommon for there to be more than one reason 
for an insurer to decline  a claim  or for an insurer to rely on what  it considers to be the most 
relevant exclusion(s) initially. So, whilst I understand why Mr T isnt happy  about this, I dont 
think L & G has done anything wrong by including  the second  reason to decline his claim, in 
addition to the first reason hed been  given initially.
And given  my findings above, I dont need to go on to consider whether L & G unfairly  
declined Mr Ts claim for the first reason. Even  if it did (which I make no finding on), Im 
satisfied that the claim has been fairly  declined  for the second reason. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision  before 27 October 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6637095