K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Birmingham Midshires (BM)-branded mortgage  Miss C holds with 
Bank of Scotland plc. The mortgage  is buy-to-let (BTL), but in September 2018, BM 
mistakenly wrote telling her she was letting the property out without authority. Miss C says 
this error  is the cause  of arrears on the mortgage  due to her not putting new tenants  in, and 
also the losses shes suffered as a result of a break-in whilst the property was unoccupied.
background
The letter at the heart of this complaint isnt dated,  but it seems to be common ground it was 
sent out in September  2018. BMs system notes indicate it was sent on 13 September 2018.
BMs admitted having sent the letter in error;  it paid Miss C £450 compensation in (two 
payments of £150  and £300 respectively) for the trouble and upset it caused. 
In addition, it initially offered to reimburse  Miss C for lost rent from August 2018   provided 
she could evidence that the property  was tenanted  or about to be  and amend her credit  file 
once shed brought the mortgage payments  up to date. 
It then changed  its mind after realising the arrears had started in August 2018,  before the 
incorrect letter had been sent out. Also, its contact records revealed Miss C had told it in 
August 2018 (again, before the letter  had been sent) that her tenants had left suddenly.
Miss C brought  her complaint here;  whilst its been with us, the arrears  worsened but BM 
said it wouldnt commence recovery action until the complaint had been decided.  Recently 
Miss C cleared the arrears in full with a single payment.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but wasnt persuaded it should  be upheld. 
He thought BM had paid reasonable compensation  for the mistake but that it wasnt  
responsible for the break-in or for Miss C not having  a new tenant.
my findings
Ill start with a general observation; a business  can withdraw an offer already made  if it 
subsequently decides that offer shouldnt have been  made. Ultimately, when a case  comes 
to us, well decide  if the circumstances of a complaint warrant an award  of redress  being  
made.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Miss C wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint  in the way that I have. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked or 
answered.
Ref: DRN65216702The gist of Miss Cs claim for compensation is that BM wrongly telling her she wasnt 
authorised to let the property is the reason  shes lost her rental income  (which  has in turn 
caused the arrears)  and also the reason the empty property  was vulnerable to being broken 
into. I appreciate  Miss C believes that, but the available evidence isnt enough  to convince 
me thats  the likeliest explanation.
BMs contact notes  show that Miss C told it on 28 August  2018  that her tenants had upped 
and left without  paying . Thats more  than two weeks before BM sent out the letter, so clearly 
it cant be the reason  Miss C lost her tenant.  Miss C has said she was given the same 
incorrect information (that is, that the tenancy was unauthorised) on the phone in June 2018. 
BMs contact notes  dont  reflect  this, and whilst Miss C told us in September  2019 that shed 
send us a CD with information  disproving  this, weve heard nothing  further from her, despite 
a reminder last month.
But theres more  to consider; BMs first written  correction of the mistake  was provided as 
early as 11 October 2018. So, at the very least,  Miss C has known since  then that she could  
put new tenants, but it seems she hasnt done so. Of course,  that could have been hindered 
by the damage  caused during the break-in, but again Im not convinced there isnt another 
just as likely  explanation for Miss C not putting in a new tenant.  
During another phone  call on 6 September 2018  (still a week  before the system notes 
indicate incorrect letter was sent out) BM has noted Miss C as saying shed been trying to 
sell the property since June of that year, but the only offer shed received at that point would 
have left her with negative  equity.  She did in fact call BM on 11 September 2018 (again 
before the system notes  indicate the incorrect letter was sent) asking to speak to the 
negative equity department.
It seems  unlikely  to me that any prospective tenant  would have entered  into a tenancy 
agreement on a property  that the landlord was trying  to sell. So, even without the break-in, it 
seems to me just as likely that Miss C would  have struggled to find a new tenant when her 
longer-term strategy appears to have been  the disposal of the property.
Lastly, on the subject of the break-in, its not exactly clear when it happened; its mentioned  
in the notes of the 6 September 2018 phone call. But in any event, for me to find that this 
happened because  the property was empty  would  require me to speculate beyond what is 
reasonable. That aside, as Ive already said,  Im not convinced BMs to blame for Miss Cs 
BTL property being empty. But even if I were, Id struggle to conclude that a break-in was a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence of a lender wrongly informing its borrower that she 
was letting her property out without permission.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, my final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 December  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6521670