K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. He isnt happy  that it turned  
down a claim following  the theft of his bike under his bicycle  insurance policy.
background
Mr Ms bike was stolen  from a secure  underground  car park at his home address. The thief 
broke through a security  door and used bolt cutters to cut two locks  and steal Mr Ms bike.
But RSA turned down the claim.  This was because one of the locks only went through  the 
forks of the bike and theft in these  circumstances is excluded under the policy.  So Mr M 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint for him and upheld  it. He was of the view that it 
was clear that the bike was double locked in a secure compound  so didnt feel that the 
business had acted reasonably. He also thought that the policy  didnt define frame  and so it 
wasnt clear how the lock should be applied.
As RSA didnt agree the matter has been  passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
I can understand RSAs  position and ideally Mr M shouldve used the fixed  D lock through  
the bike frame. And it told Mr M when it declined the claim that the bike couldve been  taken  
while leaving  the front wheel  behind.  But the bike was secured to the wall through a 
permanent wall eyelet using two locks that were  intertwined. The thief had to cut both locks,  
using bolt cutters, to remove the bike from its secured position. Furthermore, the bike was in 
a locked secure compound and the thief had to get through the security door to gain entry in 
the first instance.
Given the difficulty the thief faced in stealing the bike I dont think  the way the locks  were 
used wouldve made any difference.  The bike would still have  been  stolen and the D lock 
(that RSA accepts) would have had to have been broken in order  to steal  the bike. So the 
fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case,  is for RSA to 
settle the claim.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. So I require Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc to settle Mr Ms claim in full and pay 8% simple  interest to any cash  
payment from the date of theft to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Ref: DRN64827332Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6482733