K822xComplaint
Mr C and Miss G are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home insurance with 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco).
Background
Mr C and Miss Gs home insurance  policy was transferred to Tesco  in 2011. The premium  
charged in 2011  was £281.42 for the year. For 2018  their renewal quote was £927.31.  
Mr C and Miss G say they are unhappy  about the premiums increasing year on year and 
only queried this in 2018. Mr C and Miss G didnt renew their policy in 2018. They applied for 
a new policy  and got a much  cheaper premium.  
Mr C and Miss G say they were charged too much and should be compensated for the extra  
they paid over the years.
Tesco has, as a gesture of goodwill and without accepting liability,  offered to refund some of 
the cost of the insurance totalling  £1,487.82  (gross  of tax). Our adjudicator thought  the offer 
was a fair way to resolve things. Mr C and Miss G didnt accept this offer and the case has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Tesco has treated Mr C and Miss G fairly throughout the period they 
held their insurance policy. If I find that Tesco hasnt treated Mr C and Miss G fairly, I will 
look to see what compensation would be fair. 
In 2011, the policy cost £281.42 for the year. I can see that Mr C and Miss Gs premium 
continued to increase each year and they didnt engage with Tesco about their premium  until 
2018. 
Its possible that if a consumer hasnt been engaging with their insurer  over the price of their 
insurance over a number  of years, an insurer  could  take advantage  of that by increasing the 
price of insurance  that wouldnt be fair. Looking  at all the facts  I think  its possible Tesco 
should have realised that Mr C and Miss G werent the type of people who shopped  around  
for cheaper  insurance  regularly. So if it increased  the price just because they didnt engage 
at renewal, that wouldnt be fair. Tesco has offered £1,487.82 (gross  of tax) to Mr C and 
Miss G to put things  right.
The way Tesco has calculated this is to compare the cost of the policy in 2012 (when the 
premium was the lowest since the transfer to Tesco), with the premiums Mr C and Miss G 
paid after this. It has offered to refund  any difference and add interest  to this at a rate of 8% 
a year.  I think this is fair. It makes sure Mr C and Miss G havent lost out if Tesco did 
increase the price just because they didnt engage  at each renewal. 
Ref: DRN62717682Mr C and Miss G say they were able to get a much cheaper policy  online in 2018. New 
business premiums often have discounts  built into them - to effectively attract customers. As 
this was a new policy being quoted in 2018  it wouldve received a discount on the premium 
cost as well. So it wouldnt be fair for Tesco to use this different policy cost when working out 
its offer. 
.As Ive mentioned,  the offer Tesco has made is gross  of tax and the actual amount payable 
to Mr C and Miss G will be slightly less because tax will be deducted from the interest added.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Tesco Personal Finance PLCs offer is fair, and I dont think  it 
needs to do any more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2020. 
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6271768