K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to collect  direct debit 
payments for her credit  card resulting  in her going  over the credit  limit. 
background
In August  2018,  Miss K applied online for a credit card account  with RBS. She set up a direct  
debit so it would collect full repayments  each  month. Miss K received statements in October 
and November 2018 which showed the direct debit payments were collected. However her 
December 2018  statement  showed  her direct  debit payments for October, November and 
December 2018  were all returned unpaid. 
She says she queried this with RBS. She subsequently received her January 2019  
statement which showed a direct debit payment for the full amount was collected.  But then 
her February 2019 statement showed  the payment was returned unpaid again.  As Miss K 
continued to use her credit card during this time she had gone over her credit limit so she 
was being charged late fees as well as over the credit limit fees.  
RBS says the sort code Miss K entered when she set up her direct debit online was incorrect  
which is why the payments  were returned  unpaid.  It offered to refund some  late fees and 
over the credit limit fees as well as removing the late payment markers it applied  to her credit  
file for December 2018 and January 2019. Miss K said she couldnt afford to pay the full 
amount so RBS offered a payment plan.  
Miss K was unhappy  with RBS response so she brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  and they thought RBS offer was fair. Miss K didnt  
agree and asked  for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. She says she was told by 
RBS her direct debit was linked to a ghost account and the sort code was pre-populated 
when she applied. She says she doesnt  want to go on a payment plan as that would impact 
her credit file so she would like RBS to increase  her credit limit. As Miss K didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ks complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment to her but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Miss K applied for her credit card online after seeing  an offer on her RBS banking app. She 
says the direct debit  details were pre-populated so the incorrect sort code was not her fault. 
RBS says its system doesnt pre-populate  direct  debit  details  so Miss K wouldve had to 
manually enter the details. Ive seen a copy of Miss Ks application  form and I can see that 
the sort code was incorrect  by one digit. As I cant see the screens Miss K wouldve seen 
when she completed  her online application I cant be sure about what happened. It seems  
unlikely if the details were somehow pre-populated  as a result of Miss Ks existing 
relationship with the bank that one digit wouldve been wrong. But even if the details were 
pre-populated incorrectly, it was Miss Ks responsibility to review the details entered in her 
application and check they were correct  before submitting it.  
Ref: DRN68711392Miss K says as her October and November 2018 statements showed her direct  debit 
payments were collected, she had no reason to believe these payments werent going 
through. RBS acknowledge there was a delay in the returned unpaid  payments appearing on 
October and November 2018 statements.  It says this was because the returned reasons 
were not specified.  
Miss K says if the payments were returned each  month she wouldnt have gone over her 
credit limit as her October and November 2018  payments didnt show  as returned  until her 
December 2018  statement. I can understand why Miss K might think  her direct  debit  details 
were set up correctly if it didnt show as unpaid on her credit card statements. But I also think  
Miss K shouldve questioned whether the payments were actually going through  as the 
amounts were significant in value so she ought reasonably to have been aware the money  
wasnt correspondingly being debited from her current account. And I say that knowing she 
was likely checking her current  account to some  extent at points in time after the direct 
debits shouldve come  out, as she also made ad hoc repayments  using the faster payment 
process. Miss K continued to spend on her credit card despite potentially knowing the 
repayments were not properly going  through. 
As a gesture  of goodwill, RBS has offered to remove late payment markers  for December 
2018 and January 2019 and has already refunded some late fees and over the credit limit 
charges which  I think is fair and reasonable. I say this because RBS hasnt done anything 
wrong here so its not obliged to refund those fees. 
I note Miss K doesnt  want to go on a repayment  plan as this would impact  her credit file so 
she would  like RBS to increase her credit limit instead. However, RBS has said it cannot 
agree to increase her credit limit as she is currently over her current credit limit. I dont think 
this is unreasonable as a bank is unlikely to increase a credit  limit when repayments  have  
been missed and an account  is over the agreed  credit limit. And Ive already concluded that 
Miss K could have  done more herself to prevent this situation arising. 
Our investigator did consider whether an award  for inconvenience should be made  as the 
bank had told Miss K on a phone call that the payments were  returned in each monthly 
statement and the direct debit was linked  to a ghost account. However the investigator  
concluded it wasnt necessary. Ive listened to this phone call, the comments  by the bank 
seem to be suggested answers  to the concerns Miss K raised. By the end of that phone  call 
the bank said itd go away and look into Miss Ks concerns so it didnt make a final 
conclusion. As the bank  was still in the process  of looking into Miss Ks concerns, I dont 
think an award for inconvenience is warranted.  
Taking everything into consideration, I understand Miss K will be disappointed by this 
decision, but I cant fairly ask RBS to do anything  more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6871139