K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs representative complained about  the advice he was given by Insight in 2011
to switch his existing pension to a SIPP and then invest in a structured product. It says that
his existing pension  was churned  and any investment return  obtained was unlikely to
outweigh the costs of the pension switch. It said the SIPP itself had a level of charges that
made it unsuitable for Mr R, with his modest  fund value.  Also, too much money was
invested in the structured  product. Mr Rs representative said the advice he was
given was unsuitable for him.
background
In 2011 Mr R was given advice by Insight  to switch his pension to a SIPP  and then
invest in a structured  product.  On 28 January 2019  his representative complained  on his
behalf about the advice  he had been given.
Insight did not uphold Mr Rs complaint.  It said the proposed investment was
discussed with him and he agreed  to invest.  The investment itself guaranteed the return  of
the money invested at the end of the term. Mr R liked the idea of investing in a
structured product which would provide back at least the amount invested. His existing
pension plan could  not offer this type of investment and he would need  to set up a SIPP. The
charges for setting  up the SIPP were explained to him at the time and confirmed in the
suitability report.  The SIPP  (which is in fact a hybrid between a personal pension and a
SIPP) had a much wider  range of funds than the existing personal pension.  Insight also
mentioned that it was more than six years from the point the advice was given until Mr
R made his complaint. And that he had met with one of its advisers  on several
occasions more  than three years ago. It suggested that Mr Rs complaint had been
made outside the applicable time limits.
The complaint was referred  to this service and considered by an investigator. He considered
whether the complaint had been made  in time,  and thought that it had. Insight requested a 
review by an ombudsman  and I issued a decision setting out that the complaint had been 
made in time. The investigator then went on to consider  the merits of the complaint. He 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. He said there was little justification for the switch  of 
pension to the SIPP  which then led to the majority of Mr Rs pension being invested  in one 
structured product. 
Insight did not agree. In summary it said:
Discussions would  have been held with Mr R before moving any of his funds and this 
would not have been done without his agreement. 
The SIPP was not a true SIPP and had lower charges than a real SIPP. 
Several reviews were carried out with Mr R between 2009  and 2011.
The funds held with the existing pension were  part crystallised   Mr R had taken his 
tax free cash.  The adviser was of the view that the existing scheme was not suitable 
for drawdown. 
Due to the fact that Mr R did not wish to take an income for at least  10 years and that 
he did not wish to buy an annuity,  the decision was taken  to switch to the SIPP. 
Ref: DRN62722512Discussions also took place about  changes  to drawdown legislation.  The change  of 
pension provider would enable the use of drawdown  when the existing pension would 
not. 
Discussions also took place with a view to investing via a cheaper  pension plan. 
Insight asked that the complaint be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence I have  seen  indicates that the Insight adviser had a meeting with Mr R 
in February 2011.  A fact find document was updated for Mr R at this time. On the fact 
find is recorded the advisers recommendation to switch Mr Rs pension. This was:
to access fund that offers guarantees...
In a file note of April 2011 the adviser recorded:
I recommended  that the fund value  of your pension is not suitable  to be held in a
drawdown facility.
I recommended that the only product option suitable would be to buy an annuity to
secure your income.
However, you informed  me that you do not require  income at this time, and do not foresee  
requiring this income for at least another 10 years.
I explained that circumstances beyond your control may occur, i.e. ill health, and you
would need to take the pension income earlier than your intended retirement  date.
You were not concerned by this and stated you are only interested to take a risk with the 
fund in attempt  to optimize the growth  and fund value.
I did recommend that we leave a percentage of income within cash to cover  the
maximum income allowed,  should you require the income. However, as we are simply re-
directing the income to a pre retirement  policy that is invested within  the same Frontier  
Balanced fund, you did not think  this was beneficial.
I also explained that there had been legislation changes concerning  drawdown  rates  and by 
transferring this policy you would not have access to the same levels  of income as are 
available for you with your current contract.
Once again, as you do not require income at this time, or in the foreseeable future, you were  
not concerned  by this.
Reasons for moving:
Cheaper contract plus client required regular servicing, so have included 1% pa.
Access to structured products
Ref: DRN62722513Client confirmed many times does not require income for at least  10 years,  therefore
treated as a pension  transfer in essence.
It was also set out that, including ongoing adviser  charges, the new arrangement would  be, 
at best, no cheaper  than the existing arrangement. It was noted  that the initial fee would be 
cancelled out by a rebate from the structured product.  As that wasnt the structured  product  
that was eventually put into effect,  it is unclear whether that rebate was obtained.  
I have seen a report setting out Insights  recommendations dated 18 May 2011. This 
confirmed that Mr R was 54, was a Painter and Decorator and earned £18,000 a year. It was 
also noted that he had a medium attitude to risk. It was recorded that Mr R was intending  to 
retire in about 10 years time and he had an existing  pension worth around  £28,000.  
A recommendation was made to switch Mr Rs pension. It was said that:
A list of advantages that will be applied to the recommendation:-
 There  are over 3000 funds to invest in.
 You have the benefit of access to Structured  Products
 You have the ability to view your investments on line.
A list of disadvantages that will be incurred from the recommendation are:-
 The charging structure of your new plan differs to your existing plan, however this
has been explained to you in full. 
A recommendation was then made to invest in one structured deposit. It was set out that:
We have chosen this split of funds, as you are looking for these funds to be invested over
approximately 10 years. Should  this period be significantly  shorter,  then our advice and fund
choice would be significantly  different.
A comparison of charges  was set out which showed the difference between  the existing and 
new pension  charges. There was an initial charge of 3% of the amount switched (albeit,  as 
discussed, the original intention  was that a rebate was to mitigate  this). 
The Replacement  Policy Questionnaire set out a reason for replacement  as, to access 
structured products to provide fund value  with guarantee  and therefore  consolidating current 
growth.
In my view it is clear  that this pension switch was recommended  so that Mr R could invest  in 
the structured product.  It is not explained in any detail why that was important to Mr R, other 
than it provided a level of capital  guarantee  and allowed him to consolidate current  growth. 
As I understand it, the structured investment  originally recommended  was no longer 
available by the time Mr R was in a position  to invest. So a replacement product was 
recommended. The investment  that was recommended is a structured product designed to 
run for just over five years. Any return is based  on the opening  and closing levels of an 
investment index. If the closing index is higher than the opening index then a positive return  
is paid as interest. In normal circumstances the initial investment is also returned, 
regardless of the closing level. The index to be used to calculate returns  was based  on the 
performance of foreign  exchange rates, equities  and commodities. 
Ref: DRN62722514About three years prior to this advice Mr R has been  given advice by Insight to switch his 
pension so that he could have access to a wide range of investment funds so that he could  
improve investment performance until his retirement. It therefore  would appear unusual that 
his objectives  would  change to such an extent  in that three year period that his objective 
would be to now invest in one particular kind of structured investment with, more  likely, more 
limited growth potential.  I believe  it highly unlikely that a structured product  was something 
that Mr R was proactively  looking for, and it was more likely suggested to him by the adviser. 
It is possible that Mr R saw some  benefit  in the capital guarantee provided  by the structured 
product but what it also exposed him to was the potential for zero growth on the majority of 
the pension fund after a period approaching half of his intended period to retirement.  This 
was not discussed in any particular detail in the advisers recommendation report.  In my 
view a recommendation to invest nearly all of Mr Rs pension  fund in one product was not 
suitable, gave  him little diversification, made him dependent on the fortunes of one 
investment and brought about  the potential for zero growth after a significant period of time. 
In my view Mr R should not have been advised  to do this. 
Mr R was some years  from retirement  and taking pension  benefits. So he did not need a 
SIPP at this point   it seems the only reason for that recommendation was so that a 
structured product could  be recommended and held. As discussed, there were no 
persuasive reasons  why such as material step as a change in pension  contract  was 
warrantied  the recommendation of a structured product did not justify that. 
I therefore believe the complaint should  be upheld. 
 
Mr R has lodged a separate complaint with this service  which  I have also considered. This 
concerns the advice  he was given by Insight in 2008. I will issue a separate final decision in 
respect of that complaint.  That complaint is relevant in terms of any redress  to be awarded 
here because in that complaint I have  made  an award which compensates  Mr R for any loss 
between 2008  and the date of my final decision. In other words,  any loss caused  by the 2011 
advice considered here is encompassed and redressed by the award I have made in respect 
of the 2008 advice. I therefore make no further award in respect of the 2011 advice 
considered here.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint but I make no award  for the reasons  discussed  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6272251