K820x#14complaint
Mr Y says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr Y bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post.
At the time,  Mr Y was employed as a fitter machinist. He told us he was not entitled to any 
sick pay and didnt  have  any other  means of repaying his credit card should he be unable to 
work. Mr Y initially said that he was in good  health  at the time of the sale. He later said that 
he had had a broken  bone, but this was when he was a child,  and as he has not mentioned 
any ongoing problems  I have considered him to be in good health  when he took out the PPI. 
Mr Y also mentioned having a second job in 2000. We asked for more information,  and he 
said this was part-time bar work (for about  ten hours  a week)  which  he had been  doing for 
about three months. Having looked at the PPI policy document  I cannot see that this 
wouldve affected his ability  to claim on the policy had he lost his main  job so I have not 
considered this further. 
The policy provided  life, accident, sickness, and unemployment cover, subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered a monthly benefit of 10% of Mr Ys credit  card balance 
in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost 89p per £100  of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premiums wouldve continued to have to be paid during a 
successful claim  and they attracted interest. 
Capital One has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account was still running  in 
2015.
Mr Ys representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  
However, for ease  of reference, I will refer to its representations as being  Mr Ys from now 
on.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Y says:
Capital One failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr Y wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Y believes  there  to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs, including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim,  meant  the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Capital One should 
have told Mr Y about the poor value;
Ref: DRN68609572The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Capital One should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr Y and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr Y received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the mis-sale complaint and both parties have  seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr Y disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ys. I dont intend to set that approach 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ys complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000, so before the sale of general insurance products  like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was still running  in 2015.That means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out at s140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin1 about s140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in the light of the Plevin  
judgment, also apply.  I will come back to this later on.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN68609573This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Capital One, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Capital  One at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these  codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr 
Ys case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Capital One was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ys complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN68609574-If Capital One gave advice, whether it advised  Mr Y with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Capital One gave Mr Y sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint about  the alleged  
mis-sale in Mr Ys favour, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent 
Mr Y suffered  loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
-If I conclude Mr Y has not suffered loss or damage and I propose no award for the 
alleged mis-sale, I must  then go on to consider whether, in all the circumstances (and 
taking into account sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer  Credit Act, the 
Supreme Courts decision in Plevin , and the FCAs guidance at DISP  App 3), Capital  
One should have disclosed the commission it received - and if it didnt, what would 
be fair compensation in all the circumstances.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr Y and 
Capital One, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys alleged mis-sale complaint. I have also 
considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission and Ive decided  that Capital One 
should have disclosed  the commission it received. My findings  are set out below. 
did Mr Y know he had a choice?
Capital One had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  It sent in a copy of Mr Ys 
credit card application form, and I can see that there  are equally prominent yes and no tick 
boxes on the form in relation to the PPI. Mr Y ticked the yes box to say that he wanted PPI 
 he couldve ticked the no box if he didnt want the cover.  So taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  that Mr Y knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take 
it out without undue pressure. 
did Capital One provide  advice?
Both Capital  One and Mr Y agree that advice  wasnt provided during  this sale. This means  
Capital One didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr Y. Instead, it had to give him 
sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable Mr Y to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
As I mentioned. Capital  One provided  us with Mr Ys application form, showing that PPI had 
been selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says he wouldve 
received, including the policy terms and conditions, which I accept  - on a balance  of 
probabilities  applied to policies like Mr Ys. 
Ref: DRN68609575Looking at the information provided to Mr Y at the time,  I dont think Capital One gave Mr Y 
the information he fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy.
This sale took place  by post. The application form didnt give Mr Y any information about the 
PPI, but it referred  him to a leaflet about it. I think its unlikely Mr Y would have agreed to 
take it out without  at least having a broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mr Y would have 
thought it was free.
But it was Capital Ones responsibility to draw to Mr Ys attention the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Capital One did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost 
of the policy  was made clear to Mr Y, including the need to maintain premiums during  a 
claim or that the premiums would incur  interest. In addition,  I cant see that Capital One 
adequately drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Capital  One gave Mr Y sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Y has raised  a number of general points 
with regard to the requirements on a business when  providing information in PPI sales.  he 
suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints, like his. Ive considered  these carefully 
and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Y considers to be poor  value  and the fact 
that much of the premium went to the business  rather than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr Y about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ys views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in insurance  law 
imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract to disclose material facts and not to make  
material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what a court would  say  I think  its 
unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims ratio 
information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Mr Y 
has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that Capital One ought  to have done either.  
Ref: DRN68609576what effect did Capital Ones shortcomings  have on Mr Y? To what extent  did Mr Y 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Capital  One didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr Y. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr Y 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr Y 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Capital One done things properly. 
Mr Y says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr Y had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr Y chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr Y thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr Y has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr Y ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover 10% of his outstanding balance   this was 
set out on the policy  summary. But I accept that Capital One didnt make clear the on-going 
cost information.  So while Mr Y didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event of 
a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably  have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr Y thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  which  was existing or 
which Mr Y knew  about at the starting date, or of which  he was exhibiting the 
symptoms whether specifically diagnosed or not, or for which  he was receiving 
medical treatment or advice during  the 12 months preceding the starting date;
The policy excluded claims relating to some  mental health conditions,  and contained  
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr Y 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr Y be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
given Mr Y pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr Y from taking out the policy. 
Ref: DRN68609577But, the evidence  about Mr Ys circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr Y didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  (other than the broken bone  in childhood which  Ive no reason to think  
affected his health in 2000) and was in permanent employment. So, I still think  he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for certain mental  health conditions and the steps required to make a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr Y might reasonably 
have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support  that claim. And while this exclusion and 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr Y 
from taking out the policy,  Mr Y, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr Y had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar work which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  be qualified for, it might  
have played into his thinking  about  what he would have done.  And I accept it may have 
given him pause  for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly concerned 
given that if Mr Y was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation (or indeed, 
continue with his part-time bar work) the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr Y would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting, and he didnt have any means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, he thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.   
Mr Y says the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make it clear  that, 
where a significant  failing is identified,  it should be presumed the consumer wouldnt have 
taken out PPI, unless  there is evidence to outweigh the presumption.  They  say we should 
follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr Y would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ys 
Ref: DRN68609578circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr Y 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr Y believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr Y in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Capital One should  pay Mr Y compensation, as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr Y thinks Capital One misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Capital Ones statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Capital  
One failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Capital One gave Mr Y, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2000 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Y says a court might  take if it were  to find Capital 
One negligently misrepresented the contract  to him and about the remedy  a court  might  
award if it were to find that Capital One had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr Y in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done.
So I dont  uphold the mis-sale element  of Mr Ys complaint.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the 
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Mr Y to 
remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about 
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 (as I referred to earlier)  in the light of that 
case.
Ref: DRN68609579Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement) .
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  and 
matters relating to the debtor).
Mr Y has made a number  of representations about the impact of the Plevin judgment and 
sections 140A and 140B  of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint. In summary, Mr Y 
said that:
-Capital One failed to tell him about  the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, 
the low claims  ratio (the proportion  of the premiums  paid by policyholders  used to 
pay claims), and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover; and
-If Capital One had told him about  those things,  he would not have taken out the 
policy, so he should get back all the money  he paid by way of premium for the policy.
Ive considered those  representations carefully.  In doing so, Im mindful  of the following:
-When selling insurance,  the relevant insurance  codes  did not specifically require 
Capital One to tell Mr Y about  commission or about the claims ratio (nor, for reasons 
Ive already explained, did the duty of utmost good faith require that). As the FCA 
said when introducing its rules and guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI 
complaints in the light of the Plevin  judgment, the failure  to disclose commission  was 
not in breach of the industry codes and would  not  in and of itself  have been a 
breach of FCAs Principles for Businesses. Those Principles  include a requirement 
on businesses to pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them  
fairly (albeit as I set out earlier the Principles are not relevant in this case.)
-Where a court determines under section 140A that the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor  arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken with 
any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of (among other things) 
anything done,  or not done, by or on behalf of the creditor,  the court  has a range of 
powers available to it under section 140B. Those powers include altering the terms of 
the credit  agreement or any related  agreement,  requiring the creditor  to repay  sums 
paid by the debtor, and to reduce  or discharge any sums  payable.
-The Supreme  Court considered whether the non-disclosure of high commission  
levels might  produce  an unfair  relationship in the case  of Plevin. In that case,  the 
Ref: DRN686095710Supreme Court concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission  could lead to 
an unfair relationship.
-Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty  that it created), the FCA issued 
rules and guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI complaints that included a 
complaint about undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is contained in DISP 
App 3) came into force  in August  2017 and was preceded by a policy  statement 
(PS17/03, issued  in March 2017) and two consultation papers (CP15/39  and 
CP16/20). The respondents to those consultations included consumer groups, 
businesses, claims management companies  and trade  associations, and the final 
rules and guidance took account of their views.
-In PS 17/03, the FCA said that in publishing  this guidance for firms, it had used [its] 
regulatory judgement to create  a framework  that [it] believe[s]  will reduce uncertainty  
and enable firms to take a fair and consistent  approach to handling  PPI complaints. 
This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers  at the earliest  stage in the 
complaints process [Page 6 para 1.8]
-In broad terms, the FCAs guidance and rules  for businesses  handling PPI 
complaints require businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-step 
approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly speaking, at step 1, the firm should first 
consider whether the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply with FCAs 
rules or legal requirements.  Where failings are identified,  the business  should 
determine the way the consumer would have acted if the breach  or failing had not 
occurred (i.e. whether  or not the consumer  would  have  bought the policy) and then 
determine appropriate redress - if any. It is at this step, for instance, where the 
presumption in DISP  App 3.6.2E  which I have  already addressed  above   may 
apply.
-Where the business concludes   as Capital One did in this complaint  that the 
consumer would  have  bought PPI, it must  then go on to assess, at step 2, whether 
any failure to disclose commission and profit share gave rise to an unfair relationship  
under section 140A, in which case the business  should go on to determine the 
appropriate remedy - if any.
-As a starting point,  the FCAs rules  and guidance require businesses to presume  that 
the failure to disclose  commission  gave rise to an unfair relationship where  the 
business expected commission and profit share to be more  than 50% of the cost of 
the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its consultations  and 
policy statement). Usually, in those  circumstances, the FCAs rules and guidance 
require businesses to refund the amounts paid by the consumer  in commission  and 
profit share above 50% of the policys cost,  plus interest. While  this presumption of 
an unfair relationship  is rebuttable, I note that Capital One has not sought to rebut  it 
in Mr Ys case. In fact, Capital One made an offer of payment to Mr Y in 2018, 
calculated in line with the FCAs guidance.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Given that Capital  One didnt tell Mr Y about the high levels  of commission and profit share  
paid in this case, I think  its likely a court would determine that the relationship  between  
Capital One and Mr Y was unfair  under section 140A.  As Ive mentioned above, the FCAs 
rules require Capital  One to determine  appropriate  redress in those circumstances, and I 
Ref: DRN686095711have had regard  to those rules below in deciding what  compensation it would be fair to 
award Mr Y in order to remedy  that unfairness. 
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree of certainty  whether a court  
would conclude that Capital Ones failure to disclose information  about the claims ratio also 
meant there  was an unfair relationship. But in some respects, commission  and the claims 
ratio are two sides of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of the premiums 
is required to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  share payments.  
And I accept   although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court might take a similar 
view about the claims  ratio when considering a claim  under section 140A. But since  Ive 
already found  that its likely a court would say that Capital One should have told Mr Y about  
commission, and the claims ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think  the failure to 
disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall conclusion about whats fair 
in this case.
So, taking into account:
-the likelihood (in my view) that a court  would  determine the relationship  between  
Capital One and Mr Y was unfair  under section 140A  because  it didnt tell him about  
the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case; and
-the regulators complaint handling  guidance  for businesses, 
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr Y insofar  as it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share  paid out of the premiums  in this case. 
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.  
Ive thought carefully about whether fair compensation means Mr Y should get a full refund  
of the premiums he paid to put him in the position  he would have been in if he hadnt taken 
the policy out, or a full refund of the commission and profit  share Capital One received, or a 
refund of the commission paid above a certain point  for example by taking the approach 
set out in the FCAs rules and guidance (as has already been offered by Capital One).
As Ive mentioned  above, Mr Y says that he should get a full refund of all the PPI premiums  
he has paid. In summary, Mr Y says that the high level of commission (and/or the low claims 
ratio)  together with the policys limitations  and exclusions  meant that the PPI policy 
generally represented poor value for money  for him. I should therefore find that Mr Y would 
not have purchased the policy had he known of the level of commission   and accordingly, 
he should receive a refund of all the PPI premiums he paid. 
I have thought carefully about these representations  and am mindful  of Lord Sumptions  
observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:
Any reasonable  person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two thirds  of 
the premium was going to intermediaries,  would  be bound to question whether the insurance 
represented value  for money, and whether it was a sensible  transaction to enter into. The 
fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion made the relationship unfair.  
Ref: DRN686095712However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case (Mrs Susan Plevin) would (or would not) have purchased  the PPI 
policy had the commission  been disclosed to her at the time of her purchase. The Supreme 
Court simply did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore consider that the 
Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Mr Y suggests  it does  i.e. that 
he necessarily would  not have purchased the policy  had the level of commission been 
disclosed to him at the time.
I have also borne in mind  that the overarching question for the court would be what  steps are 
required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under  section 140B, the court would have a 
wide range  of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending  relationship  in 
question. It does not, for instance,  follow that because Capital One did not disclose the high 
level of commission to Mr Y, the court would necessarily order Capital One to return  all the 
premiums Mr Y paid for the policy. Nor does it follow that the court  would necessarily find 
that Mr Y would not have purchased the policy but for Capital Ones failure to disclose the 
high commission. 
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr Y 
in order to remedy the unfairness  arising  from the fact Capital  One did not disclose the high 
level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
the FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
In considering what would represent  fair compensation for Mr Y, I have, as I stated earlier,  
had regard to the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a complaint  
about undisclosed commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important consideration for 
me to take into account, and I will now explain  how I think  the FCAs guidance affects my 
decision on this issue.  
As I explained above, the FCA consulted extensively between 2015 and 2017 on the 
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about undisclosed 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise  of its regulatory judgment,  the 
FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. According to the FCA, the 
purpose of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair and consistent approach to 
handling PPI complaints  involving undisclosed commission. 
The FCA explained why it decided to exercise its regulatory judgment  in the way it did in 
paragraphs 4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.  These paragraphs state as follows:
The two step approach 
The approach to assessing merits  
4.68 Some responses  from industry, and from CMCs and consumer bodies, maintained their 
broad support for our proposed structuring  of the new rules  and guidance  concerning Plevin 
as a separate second step within our existing PPI complaint handling  rules and guidance, 
seeing it as a sensible and proportionate approach. 
4.69 However, some  industry respondents maintained and amplified their concerns about  
our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39)  that, in some marginal cases, a firm may conclude  
at Step 2 that not disclosing  commission over 50% was the straw that broke the back  of the 
sale as a whole, and that, overall, the customer would not have bought the PPI if given 
Ref: DRN686095713better information, including about the commission, at point of sale. These  responses argue 
that our view: 
inappropriately blurs the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective
will result in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step 
2 uphold  upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and complexity of 
handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers
imposes disproportionate  costs on firms  and the Financial Ombudsman Service  who 
will need  to operationalise such hybrid  assessments as standard  in their processes 
despite the small number, we say, whose outcomes will change  in practice 
4.70 Conversely, some  responses from consumer  bodies  and CMCs maintained  and 
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at 
Step 1 and Step 2, when these should be considered together. Specifically, they said that: 
We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant 
considerations from the Plevin judgment, and ignored the findings  of the Competition  
Commission that the non-disclosure of commission was a central  plank of the sales 
strategy employed by most lenders.
The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission.  Instead, 
it is a wide one in the round,  so any sales failings  at Step 1, or other issues of 
unfairness or inequalities of knowledge  such as poor value from a low claims ratio,  
should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A. 
Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair  which  presumably 
also makes  it a breach of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the customer did need to 
be told about poor value, and it explicitly cites unfairness arising from undisclosed 
poor value. So it is wrong  for our proposed structure to imply (and Financial 
Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) that the non-disclosure of high commission  
and poor value was not relevant for causation and potential mis-selling or 
assessment at Step 1. Our proposed approach  paid lip service  to this, allowing that 
undisclosed commission may be the straw that broke the back of the sale as a 
whole, but said these  are marginal cases that will be few and far between   
whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been fairly carried out, but we cannot 
reasonably assume  that, given  the continued  poor complaint handling by firms. And 
the approach itself incentivises lenders not to concede a mis-sale,  and to instead 
redress more cheaply at Step 2. 
Our response
We have carefully  considered this feedback. However,  we see no reason to change our 
previous views or position.
Ref: DRN686095714Plevin deals with the specific question of whether an unfair relationship between lender and 
borrower was created by undisclosed high commission on the PPI. This question  is different 
from, and narrower than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for 
firms, which  is: did the conduct of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale,  of 
what we would expect  under our Principles and ICOB(S) rules,  that it made the sale 
substantially flawed?  
We still believe the two-step approach reflects this difference appropriately and fairly for 
complainants and firms.  An alternative approach which  merged considerations about  
undisclosed commission  into the existing rules  and guidance about  mis-selling to create a 
single test would not be appropriate because:  
We do not consider the non-disclosure of commission in PPI sales to have been a 
breach of our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely  in and of itself to have been  in breach 
of our Principles,  whereas we do consider the various  sales failings set out in the 
existing rules and guidance to be so.
It would  lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations  of whether a consumer would 
still have bought  the PPI if they had been  told about the level of commission. This 
difficulty is compounded by the fact that complaints about PPI increasingly involve 
older, pre-2005  sales,  of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Additionally, if we were to force  firms  to make these assessments  it would result in 
complaint outcomes  which would  be both arbitrary  and inappropriately all or nothing. 
It could give too little  nothing  to many  consumers  who had suffered an unfair 
relationship, and too much  full return of premium and interest  to many consumers 
who had benefitted from the PPI cover. (See paragraphs 4.87-4.105 below for further 
discussion of our approach to redress.) 
We would, anyway, have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed  
commission may be relevant to be assessed  by a lender  that did not sell the PPI and 
could not assess  if it was mis-sold under  our existing rules..
This extract makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered  representations  from 
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the 
representations which Mr Y is now making   i.e. that the existence of an undisclosed high 
level of commission means that I should find that Mr Y would not have purchased  the policy 
had he known about the level of commission at the time he bought  the policy.
However, I note that, in the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA decided that it 
would not be appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the 
existing rules and guidance about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step approach  
for firms handling PPI complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step  approach, 
the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to 
remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed  commission  should generally be 
considered at step 2. 
Turning now to consider  what  the FCAs guidance says about  how firms should calculate fair 
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am 
mindful that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive  consultation  
and deliberation. The following extract from para 4.104 of PS17/3  (omitting the footnotes)  
explains the FCAs position:
Ref: DRN686095715Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the 
courts might take a variety  of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However, 
we remain of the view that our approach,  centred  on the return of that portion of 
undisclosed commission plus profit share that exceeded  the tipping point, is fair and 
appropriate. As we have  explained  (see our response under paragraph  3.27 above), 
we are exercising  our regulatory  judgement  about appropriate assessment and, 
where appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A-B, taking 
account of Plevin. In doing so, we are seeking  to ensure fair and consistent complaint 
handling. We consider our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting 
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the 
notion of a tipping point.  
For these reasons, although  it was the remedy in Plevin ordered by the Manchester  
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress should be the 
return of all the commission that was not disclosed. Also,  the consumer,  who,  as 
would generally  have been established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for 
the protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed the benefit  of that protection  before 
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for the lender to keep some of the 
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point).
 
Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should  be the return  of all the 
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting  this approach would dissolve any 
meaningful distinction between  a mis-sale and an unfair relationship  under  s.140A, 
and thus between our existing Step 1 and proposed  Step 2. In our view, it would 
(even more than the return  of all commission) give excessive redress to the 
consumer who had enjoyed the benefit of that protection  before complaining. We 
consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the 
underwriting of the policy  and for some of the commission  from the policys  
distribution (i.e. the portion  under  the tipping  point).
 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes 
hypothetical scenarios  or, in general  or for historic interest specifically,  implies  any 
assumption that the customer would have  searched for or bought  an alternative  PPI 
policy that was cheaper by the amount of the excess  commission over the tipping 
point. So we do not need to take into account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI 
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.  
Rather, as stated above, our approach simply seeks to redress  the customer  for that 
element of undisclosed  excess commission  and profit share which created the unfair 
relationship under s.140A. It is in that specific sense, of our approach  not second 
guessing what  the consumer would have done had they been told of the commission,  
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We 
did not mean that our overall approach to redress had no element of restoring the 
consumers financial position to what  it would  have been without the undisclosed 
excess commission.
 
Lastly, we note that our approach  to redress has to be viewed in the round, as a 
package. Responses from CMCs  and consumer bodies have focused on aspects 
which they believe depart  from Plevin and are ungenerous to complainants,  such  as 
the presumptive  50% tipping point and redress based on the excess over it. 
Responses from industry have focused on aspects which they believe depart from . 
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress,  in 
Ref: DRN686095716aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate in light of the detriment 
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore,  the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in a 
case like Mr Ys (involving  a regular premium policy) is that a firm should pay a sum 
equivalent to the commission and profit share that is in excess of 50% of the policys cost, 
together with interest. According to the FCA, compensation calculated in this way would 
fairly remove the element of unfairness caused  by the existence  of the undisclosed high 
commission. 
my conclusion
Taking all these considerations  into account,  and having carefully  considered Mr Ys 
representations, my conclusion is as follows:
-Where a court determines that the relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair under section  140A,  the court is empowered  to make a variety of different 
types of orders under  section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
-Mr Y has urged  me to conclude that because Capital Ones  failure to disclose the 
high level of commission (and/or profit  share) made his relationship with Capital One 
unfair, I must  find that he wouldnt have purchased the policy  had he known about 
these matters at the time he purchased the policy.
-However, I do not accept Mr Ys suggestion.  As I said above, I recognise  it is 
possible that had the level of commission been disclosed to Mr Y at the time of the 
sale, he might have  decided not to purchase the policy. At the same time,  however, I 
am mindful of:
i. the FCAs observation in PS17/03  (which  I have  quoted  above) that the 
existence of undisclosed  commission question raises difficult considerations 
of whether a consumer  would  still have bought the PPI if they had been told 
about the level of commission; and
ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly  remedy  the unfairness 
caused to Mr Y by the failure to disclose the high level of commission   I am 
not, as Mr Y suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have purchased  
the policy but for Capital Ones failure  to disclose  the level of commission.
-I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  requires a firm to refund some of the money paid for 
the PPI policy  in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by the failure  to disclose the 
level of commission. I also think that refunding  some of the money paid for the PPI 
policy in this way is an order which the court could,  in the exercise of its discretion, 
make under  section  140B in order  to remedy any unfairness.
 
-Overall, and on balance, I therefore  think it was fair for Capital One to calculate 
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share,  and thus return  some of the money Mr Y 
paid for his PPI policy. This is because, in my view,  this:
i. fairly removed the source of the unfairness; while:
Ref: DRN686095717ii. leaving  Mr Y with the policy Ive concluded  above he would have taken out if 
Capital One had met its obligations  when acting  as an insurance seller   but 
with lower commission and profit share  levels.
   
-In other  words, by compensating  Mr Y in line with the FCAs guidance  at step 2, this 
effectively reduced  the overall  cost of the policy by an amount  equal  to the excess 
undisclosed high commission (and/or profit share) which is the very source  of the 
unfairness for the purposes of section 140A.
  
-I think that compensating Mr Y in this way was a fair and reasonable outcome 
because it left him with the policy I believe he would have still taken out (for the 
reasons I explained above) while fairly compensating  him for the unfairness caused 
by the existence of undisclosed high commission. 
Taking all of this into account,  I therefore  consider that Capital Ones offer of payment of an 
amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  
costs, in line with the FCAs  guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.  
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Ys complaint  or make any award  in his 
favour for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Capital 
One (Europe)  plc should pay Mr Y an amount equivalent to the commission  and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2021.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6860957