K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss S complain that Tesco Personal  Finance plc (trading as Tesco Bank) misled 
them about  the way in which their loan would be repaid.
background
In 2016 Mr M and Miss S arranged a top-up  loan over the phone with Tesco  Bank. They  say 
the bank didnt tell them that their repayments would  pay off interest  during the first part of 
the loan term. So when they asked  for an early  settlement figure,  the capital amount they 
owed was higher  than expected.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that the loan 
agreement Mr M and Miss S had signed explained  that a higher proportion of their 
repayments would be allocated to repaying  interest  at the start of the loan.
Mr M and Miss S said this wasnt explained  to them when they took out their loan. They  
asked for their complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr M and Miss S say Tesco  Bank  didnt tell them  their repayments would be allocated 
mostly to paying off interest at the start of the loan. 
Ive listened to the call where  Miss S applied for the loan, and I accept that the allocation of 
their repayments wasnt specifically explained by Tesco during that call. 
But Im mindful that details of how the loan repayments would be allocated were  set out in 
the Further Information  document supplied  with Mr M and Miss Ss loan agreement.  Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that they didnt receive that document. 
The explanatory document  says:
Each one of your loan repayment instalments is made up of an amount used to pay your 
interest, and an amount  used to reduce the loan. At the start of the loan, a higher proportion 
of your monthly repayment  is allocated to repaying  interest than in later months.
So I dont  think I can fairly say that Tesco  Bank didnt make Mr M and Miss S aware  of how 
their loan repayments would be allocated. 
Even if Tesco Bank didnt  give this information to Mr M and Miss S when they arranged  their 
loan, this wouldnt change  my overall conclusions about the complaint. Thats  because  Ive 
had to consider  whether Mr M and Miss S wouldve  done something different if theyd had 
full information  about how their repayments would be allocated.
Ref: DRN66487812From what  Ive seen and been  told, theres nothing to suggest that they wouldnt have taken  
out the loan if theyd  properly understood how the repayments would be allocated.
Overall, this means I wont be upholding Mr M and Miss Ss complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6648781