K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has acted unfairly and unreasonably by adding  
legal fees to his mortgage account. He wants matters put right and the charges written off.
background
Mr Q had a mortgage  with HSBC. He got into arrears and agreed a repayment  plan to deal 
with the debt with HSBC  (though HSBC wanted to have a suspended  possession order in 
place to ensure  payment as previous repayment plans had been broken). This service  had 
earlier found on 21 March  2018  that not all the earlier  legal fees shouldve been  charged and 
made a decision  setting out what  could and couldnt  be charged.
A suspended possession  order  was made  in December  2018 by consent  settling  the matter,  
and it included an order about the legal  fees charged by HSBC, reflecting the decision of this 
service in March 2018. There had been an earlier court order  in February  2018 but it wasnt 
a final resolution  of the dispute. Mr Q said that the legal proceedings shouldve returned  to 
court sooner  than December and HSBC  shouldve explained why its fees were fair and 
reasonable at court.
Mr Q complained to HSBC. It said the mortgage  had been  in arrears for over ten years and a 
large amount was owed as a result. HSBC  explained  that it had instructed solicitors  and the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage  allowed it to charge the mortgage account the legal 
costs incurred due to the arrears. It acknowledged not all of the costs had been charged  due 
to a previous decision of this service and the court order,  and explained  that the consent 
order stated an amount to be paid on top of the contractual  monthly  payment to go towards 
the arrears and fees. But the legal fees charged since  March  2018 were due to the arrears  
not being dealt with by Mr Q and his failure to provide the information  required.
Mr Q complained to us. HSBC explained that it needed more information about  a pension 
policy to be used to deal with the arrears, and the solicitors had to deal with that, as well as 
the proceedings themselves and Mr Q. It was the courts decision to list the hearing for 
December 2018.  
The investigators view was that this service couldnt interfere with a decision made  by a 
court or the decision that this service had made previously in March 2018. So he wouldnt  
consider the legal fees charged  before  21 March  2018, but said we could  look at whether the 
fees charged since March  2018 were excessive. The investigator noted that by May 2018 
the account was still in arrears and there was no repayment plan in place and Mr Q needed 
to take action; he refused to deal with HSBC after this, though it explained that it was 
necessary to speak  to his wife and get a court order to formalise the plan. 
The investigator said that it was necessary to instruct  solicitors  in the circumstances and the 
legal fees charged  related to this required work.  As Mr Q was unwilling to provide  the 
information, the investigator didnt think the work done was unnecessary or that HSBC acted 
unreasonably when administering the account.  He said the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage allowed  the costs to be passed  to Mr Q and the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.
Mr Q disagreed. He said he wanted an ombudsmans decision and that the court had 
ordered HSBC  to set out fees.
Ref: DRN67519012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  has explained, were not able to interfere with court orders  or previous 
decisions of this service. The legal fees charged  before 21 March 2018  have been 
previously considered by this service so I cant look at those. I can, and will, look at the legal 
fees charged from 21 March 2018 onwards and consider whether its fair and reasonable for 
HSBC to charge  those  fees to Mr Qs account.  Legally, HSBC can charge the legal costs 
due to the terms and conditions  of the mortgage,  but I can say this isnt permitted as it isnt 
fair or reasonable,  if thats my view.
First, while  Mr Q says that the court ordered  HSBC to set out its fees and prove that they 
were due, theres no evidence of such an order.  It would  be very unusual  for any court to 
make such  an order  as the position  is that the terms and conditions of the mortgage allow 
the legal  costs to be claimed from the borrower and the court  doesnt generally  interfere. 
The order  of December 2018 did record an exception  to this position,  but thats due to the 
previous decision  of this service on 21 March 2018. I cant  interfere with the decision of a 
court, and this includes the order made  in December 2018 which covers the legal fees 
charged before this date.
I considered the legal fees charged since 21 March 2018, and the evidence  available to me. 
I received a detailed  breakdown of the fees and the supporting court  documents  and 
correspondence. Mr Q isnt correct  when he says HSBCs solicitors kept delaying the court  
hearing. What happened  was that the court  set a time limit by when the repayment plan had 
to be agreed,  and when it wasnt possible to meet that deadline as Mr Q hadnt supplied  the 
required information, HSBCs solicitors applied  for an extension. Thats  fair and reasonable. 
And when  the information was received, it was fair and reasonable for HSBCs solicitors to 
confirm to the court that it as ready  for a hearing  to be arranged   the court chose  to list it for 
December 2018.
The legal work and other actions taken by HSBC after 21 March 2018 all centred on getting 
the necessary  information from Mr Q and his wife in order to confirm whether the repayment 
plan was possible and realistic as the arrears were continuing. Given the difficulties (Mr Q 
wasnt happy to deal with HSBC direct),  I cant say that it wasnt fair or reasonable to do the 
work or that HSBC acted  unfairly or unreasonably  in administering  the account. The fees 
charged dont look excessive, based on the evidence Ive seen.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6751901