K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint relates to incorrect information from Santander UK Plc, which led to 
them not having insurance cover  in place when their home  was broken into. They  would like 
Santander to pay for the damage caused during the break-in.
background
In 2011 Mr and Mrs S applied for a mortgage with Santander. When  doing so, they used an 
independent broker.  At that time they told the broker they wanted to arrange their own home 
insurance, rather than taking it through Santander.  Mr and Mrs S arranged home insurance 
(buildings and contents)  each year direct with various insurers.  
In 2013 and 2016 Mr and Mrs S applied for and were granted new interest rate products for 
their mortgage. In the offer documentation  for each of these products it confirmed that 
buildings insurance  had to be in place  for the property. It also confirmed that Mr and Mrs S 
had chosen to take that insurance via a third party.
Mr S says he had a conversation with a colleague in 2018  where  it was suggested that many  
people had insurance arranged by their lenders, which they were unaware  of, and so didnt 
need to arrange separate  cover. Mr and Mrs S decided  to contact Santander to check  if they 
had home  insurance  alongside their mortgage. Santander said I can confirm that you do 
hold buildings  insurance cover with Santander. This was shortly before their existing 
buildings and contents insurance policy was due for renewal/replacement.
Mr and Mrs S say they decided not to renew  their home insurance policy  in August 2018, as 
they already had cover with Santander. 
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs S home was broken into through  bifold doors at the rear of the 
property. The matter  was reported to the police and it arranged  for the door to be securely 
boarded up. This cost Mr and Mrs S £204  including VAT. They contacted  Santander to make  
a claim and discovered theyd been  given the wrong information; they didnt have insurance 
with Santander.  They complained.
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs S had repairs done to the door  a new leaf installed  at a 
cost of £1,240  including VAT. They have said that the repair has made the home secure,  but 
there are gaps and it is not ideal. 
Santander acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S had been given the wrong information by its 
member of staff. It pointed out that the assumption Mr and Mrs S said they made was wrong. 
As there was no insurance policy in place, Santander declined to make  any settlement for 
the damage. It offered  them £25 for the mistake made by its member of staff.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with Santanders  response and referred  their complaint to this 
service. After doing so Mr and Mrs S were asked why they hadnt sought to obtain a refund  
of premiums from their previous insurers, given they thought they were insured with 
Santander since the mortgage  was taken out. They confirmed that they thought their enquiry 
had started the cover  with Santander, not that they thought they had always  had it. They  
explained that they thought it came  free with their mortgage in the same way breakdown  and 
mobile phone insurance  came free with their current account.
Ref: DRN69586262One of our investigators  considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She 
concluded that if Santander  hadnt  made  the mistake it had, Mr and Mrs S would  have been  
insured elsewhere.  As such, she thought  Santander should step into the shoes of an insurer 
and:
1.pay the cost of boarding up and the repairs already completed;
2.upon proof the repair already completed  was temporary, pay the amount of the quote 
Mr and Mrs S received from the original installers.  If VAT is charged on the replacement,  
this should also be paid, upon provision  of a receipt to evidence  Mr and Mrs S paid VAT 
and the amount paid; and
3.pay an additional £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  they 
experienced as a result of the error;  
minus:
4.the policy excess and premiums that would have been paid to the date of claim, had the 
previous policy  been  renewed.
Santander didnt  accept the investigators  conclusions. It pointed out that Mr and Mrs S had 
clearly paid attention  to their insurance and had changed policy a number of times.  They  
would have been aware of policy documentation being provided  on a regular basis  and 
surely should have questioned the lack of information provided  including  the very basics  
such as the level of cover and whether  contents cover was included. In addition, if they 
believed a policy was linked to their mortgage  account the annual mortgage statement would 
have shown there wasnt one. It offered to pay half the costs Mr and Mrs S had incurred and 
would incur, if the door repair  was temporary   points  1 to 3 above - plus £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience they had suffered.
Our investigator put the offer to Mr and Mrs S, but didnt endorse it. They  didnt accept the 
offer and Santander  wasnt  willing  to change its position. As agreement  couldnt be reached, 
the complaint  was referred to me. 
On 11 February 2020 I issued a provisional  decision. In that document  I set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
There is no doubt that Santander made a mistake  when it told Mr and Mrs S that they had 
buildings insurance  with it. It has accepted it has some responsibility for the situation in 
January 2019,  but it thinks Mr and Mrs S have some  responsibility for it too. This is because  
it thinks that as consumers who had experience of insurance and how it worked,  including 
the information they should receive  about it, they should have realised something wasnt 
quite right and should  have asked  questions.  Had they done so it would have  brought  the 
mistake to light before any loss was suffered.
Mr and Mrs S have  said that when Santander told them they had buildings  insurance with it, 
they believed  it was a benefit it added at that time to their mortgage account free of charge. 
Theyve said they believed it was like the free insurances they get with their bank  account.  
This explanation would explain  why Mr and Mrs S didnt expect to be charged a premium  for 
the cover. However, with the insurances  attached to their bank account, these were 
promoted by the bank  as benefits gained from banking with it. There was no such 
Ref: DRN69586263communication from Santander. Indeed,  the only mention of home  insurance made by 
Santander was in the three offer documents from 2011, 2013 and 2016  which  said either  
Mr and Mrs S didnt  want Santander to arrange cover for them  or that cover was being 
provided by third parties. There is no evidence that Mr and Mrs S were led to believe by 
Santander their mortgage  provided free buildings insurance.
As I understand it, even with the free insurances linked to their bank account,  they were  
provided with information  by Santander about  what they covered and how they worked.  
Mr and Mrs S also had experienced  of home  insurance from other providers and the 
information they were  given each time a policy was taken or renewed. However, they 
received nothing about the purported insurance from Santander in the August when they 
said they thought the policy had started. I think Mr and Mrs S should have realised there  was 
something wrong when,  following what they believed  was the beginning of a new policy, they 
received no information about it at all. 
In summary,  whilst it is clear that Santander  gave Mr and Mrs S the wrong information about  
having buildings insurance with it, I believe this error  was compounded by Mr and Mrs S 
then making assumptions, that were  not based on anything Santander had told them or led 
them to believe,  about that insurance  provision. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but 
I think mistakes  were  made by both sides and they contributed equally to the loss that was 
suffered. As such, I think Santanders  offer of 50% of the loss plus £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience they suffered by it initially denying any responsibility for the situation is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Santander accepted the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs S said they feel my conclusions are in Santanders favour.  They said they dont 
have the funds to complete the repair and so are left with no choice but to accept the redress 
awarded in the provisional decision, even though they feel it leaves them  out of pocket. They 
believe it was not unreasonable  for them to have made the assumptions they did when  they 
were told they had buildings insurance with Santander. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs S disappointment in my conclusions,  but having  reviewed  the 
evidence again  I remain of the view that both sides contributed equally to the loss occurring 
and the redress  offered  is appropriate. 
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. As such, it should pay Mr and Mrs S half the cost:
incurred in boarding up and having  repairs done  on their bifold doors; and
that will be incurred in replacing the bifold  doors  if evidence is provided  the previous 
repairs were only temporary.
In addition, Santander UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs S £200 for the distress  and 
inconvenience this matter has caused them.
Ref: DRN69586264Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 April 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6958626