K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that when he deposited money in a machine with TSB Bank plc £400  got 
stuck and the bank hasnt  credited this into his account.
background
On Friday 27 April 2018, Mr M went into a TSB branch to pay money into his account.  He 
deposited £170 into one of their immediate deposit  machines  (IDM)  and got a receipt for this. 
He then tried to make another  deposit but says £400  got stuck in the machine. 
Mr M says the branch was busy so he went out to the cash  machine to check his account 
balance and see whether the £400 had been credited to his account. It hadnt, so he 
reported it to staff in branch. He then gave the remainder of the money he had with him to a 
cashier to pay into his account.
Mr M went back to the branch the next day but says they hadnt  found his money. He says 
he was told an engineer would come out on 30 April 2018 to look at the machine he used  on 
the 27 April 2018.  But because he didnt hear anything further about this he complained to 
TSB.
TSB said that they checked the machine Mr M used and found  that it balanced, so they dont 
think his missing £400 was in the machine. They said Mr M had dropped some of his money 
on the floor when he was in the branch, and therefore they dont believe he paid it in. TSB  
have declined to reimburse Mr M.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think TSB provided  sufficient evidence to suggest  that Mr Ms version  
of events wasnt correct.  And on balance they thought Mr M had lost the money  in the way  
he describes. So they upheld his complaint  and asked  TSB to credit his account with the 
£400, and pay him an additional £100  for the inconvenience caused, as Mr M told us he had 
to borrow money from friends  as a result.
TSB disagreed with the adjudicators view. So the case  has come  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete or not 
available, Im required to make my decision on balance i.e. what I think is most likely to have 
happened given  whats been said and provided  in the circumstances of the complaint.
I know TSB will be disappointed,  but I have reached the same conclusions  as our 
adjudicator. I dont think TSB have provided  sufficient evidence  to suggest the money wasnt  
deposited. And I have  no reason to doubt  Mr Ms explanation of what  happened when he 
tried to use their IDM. So on balance I think its feasible he lost the money as he describes. 
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN66776402Mr M has described what he says happened when he tried to deposit money into his TSB 
account on 27 April 2018. He told us that he successfully deposited £170 into an IDM, but it 
took a long time, so he tried to put more notes  into the machine the next time. He said the 
machine jammed, and then told him to take his money back out. He managed  to pull some  
of the notes out, but the IDM then crashed and swallowed £400 of his money. I can see from 
his bank statements  that Mr M deposited  a further  £1,430 into his account the same day. 
These three  amounts total £2,000,  which is the amount Mr M told us he went to pay in. Our 
adjudicator spoke to Mr M several times and he has given us a consistent account of how he 
lost the money.
Mr M reported his missing money to the bank. He says that the branch was very busy at the 
time, so he first went  outside to use a cash machine to check his balance and see if the 
£400 had credited to his account. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.  When  he 
saw it hadnt been, Mr M reported it to a member  of staff. TSB have  confirmed this. And I 
understand one of their cashiers  deposited the rest of Mr Ms money  into his account  for him. 
So Im satisfied Mr M notified TSB of the problem in good time.
TSB doesnt think there were any problems with the IDM when Mr M used it. But theyve told 
us that an engineer came out to branch the day before the incident to look at it. They havent 
told us what the problem was, but have said there were  some issues caused  by a migration 
to a new computer  system that took place  on 22 April 2018. Mr M says he was told by the 
branch when he reported the loss of his money  that they would ask an engineer  to check  the 
machine on the next working day. But TSB told us that the next engineers visit wasnt until 
July 2018. Given  that the IDM wasnt looked at after the problem, and there  had been issues  
with the machine that week, I think it was possible the machine could have made an error or 
malfunctioned in the way that Mr M describes.
TSB told us the machine balanced correctly at the end of the day Mr M made his deposit. 
Theyve provided us with a copy of their manual  daily cash control sheet but this was 
completed on Monday  30 April 2018.  And I gather the branch was open on Saturday  28 April 
2018 as Mr M went back in to enquire about  his money. This control  sheet refers  to a total of 
£13,455 cash. But the branch said a total of £12,550  was taken by the machine on 27 April 
2018. So there doesnt appear to be a record  for the individual machine. Unfortunately, a list 
of individual  transactions isnt produced by the machine  since  the migration on 22 April 2018. 
TSB have  also said that there were no instances  of cash  differences  in the machine in the 
whole of April,  but again I havent seen any evidence to support this statement.  Theyve  also 
told us that the IDM had 11 errors  between 4 June 2018 and 26 September  2018 totalling 
£560. So I understand it does go wrong on occasion. 
I appreciate TSB feel that their cash control  sheet and the fact theyve told us there werent 
any cash imbalances support their belief that Mr Ms money  was not deposited  into their 
IDM. But Ive explained why the evidence theyve provided means I dont feel I can be sure 
of this. TSB told us that they had CCTV footage  which showed  Mr M dropping money  on the 
floor in branch.  This footage isnt available for us to view now. But I can see that when they 
were investigating  Mr Ms complaint TSB said in an email  that they could see on the footage  
that Mr M picked up all the money that he dropped. Mr M tells us the money was mostly in 
£10 notes. I think £400 would be a noticeable amount of money  to leave  on the floor,  or for 
someone else to have picked up without being  seen on the CCTV footage.  So I think it is 
likely, on balance, that Mr M did pick up all the money he dropped  and that this does not 
account for the missing £400. 
Ref: DRN66776403TSB have  also pointed out Mr M left the machine  unattended when he went  outside to check 
the cashpoint. But Mr M told us the machine had swallowed his money at this point, so I 
think its unlikely a third party could have taken it. TSB havent  commented on what the 
CCTV footage  showed  after Mr M had picked  up the money he dropped. But I think it is likely 
it would  have captured anything suspicious. And it hasnt been  suggested that anyone  took 
Mr Ms money from the machine after he left it. 
Given this, and the fact TSB have not been able support the statements theyve made  about  
the IDMs condition and the cash control checks made, I think that, on balance, it is likely Mr 
M did deposit the £400 as he says. Therefore, I think our adjudicators  recommendation, that 
TSB should reimburse Mr M his £400, and pay an additional £100 compensation is fair. 
Given the amount  of money involved Im satisfied that the compensation awarded is also 
sufficient to cover any lost interest whilst  Mr M has been  deprived of the funds.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc. I require them to pay 
Mr M £400 and an additional £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6677640