K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 
alongside a loan. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis- sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr M says he cant remember  if PPI was added to his loan. But hes not told us much more 
about what happened at the time.  Unfortunately Mr Ms loan application form is no longer 
available for me to consider,  but this is understandable  considering the sale took place 
around 20 years ago.
In the absence of any documents from the time of sale Ive also considered  the evidence 
Barclays has provided us to come to a decision on what I think  is more likely to have  
happened.
Barclays says it wouldve presented the PPI as optional, and Mr M wouldve had the choice 
to accept or decline the policy.  It has also supplied a copy of the type of application form it 
says Mr M wouldve  seen  and signed. And looking at the sample  provided,  Ive not seen any 
reason to think that this isnt the type of form that wouldve been used for Mr Ms application. 
In the sample  application theres  a section for PPI which includes options to accept or 
decline the cover. Mr M wouldve then signed the application,  agreeing  to the information 
contained within it. And as PPI was added to Mr Ms account,  I think its more likely  than not 
that he opted for the cover  in his application.  Barclays has also provided a sample loan 
agreement, and again theres nothing to make  me think  this wouldnt have been similar to 
Mr Ms actual  loan agreement from the time. This shows the PPI wouldve been  set out in a 
separate column to the loan figures under the heading Optional  Credit Protection Insurance  
Premium. 
So based  on all the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Barclays  made  it 
clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why he cant remember this now.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was, and Ill 
explain why.
Ive seen that Mr M had been working  two jobs at the time the PPI was sold to him, but I 
dont think this meant the policy  unsuitable  for him because based  on the terms and 
conditions available  I think  Mr M wouldve been able to make  a claim on the policy had he 
lost his main job. And looking  at his other  circumstances from the time,  I dont  think  he was 
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Ive not seen  any 
evidence that Mr M wouldve received any sick pay from his employers at the time nor has 
Ref: DRN63929502he told us about  any savings or other  insurance he had in place. So I think he had a need for 
this cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong.  
Mr M would have received a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled  the policy  
early. I dont  know if Barclays thought  about this when it recommended the policy  or 
explained the situation clearly to Mr M. But Ive seen  nothing to suggest  he thought he would 
repay the loan early.  So I dont think this made the policy unsuitable and overall  I dont think 
better information about the policy wouldve stopped him buying  it.
my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6392950