K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed his bank accounts. He says this 
caused him a great deal of distress  and inconvenience. He wants  Santander to reopen  his 
accounts. 
background
On 20 February 2016, Mr R opened two accounts with Santander, a basic current account  
and a basic top up debit card account.  
On 1 March 2018,  Mr R submitted an application  to upgrade his basic  account to a regular 
current account. Following receipt  of his application, Santander conducted  credit  and 
security checks. As a result of these  checks, Santander identified that Mr R had a Credit 
Industry fraud marker  (CIFAS)  against  his name, which had been loaded  by another bank, 
which I will refer to as bank B. 
Mr R had opened an account with bank B in 2015. In February 2016, fraudulent funds were 
paid into this account. Bank B closed Mr Rs account in March 2016  and notified CIFAS 
about this activity in October 2016.  As a result  of this marker, Santander declined Mr Rs 
upgrade application and decided to close his accounts.
Santander contacted Mr R and explained  why it had decided to close his accounts. 
Santander referred Mr R to CIFAS and gave him 28 days  notice to make alternative banking  
arrangements. Mr R withdrew the balance from his account in March 2018,  and his account 
was closed in April 2018.
Mr R complained to Santander  about  the closure of his accounts. He said Santander had 
treated him unfairly. He explained that the closure  of his accounts had caused him a great 
deal of stress and anxiety.  And he has had trouble opening other  bank accounts.  Mr R also 
said he had to leave  university because he didnt  have  an account to use to receive  his 
student loan. 
Santander reviewed  its decision  to close Mr Rs accounts. It said it had acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And said it wasnt  willing to reopen  the 
accounts. Unhappy  with this response, Mr R brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint.  She said that bank B should  have  applied  the 
CIFAS marker  sooner than it did. And because of the delay Santander wouldnt have been 
aware of the CIFAS marker at the time Mr R opened his accounts, in February 2016. 
The investigator said that Santander had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of the account  when  it decided to close Mr Rs accounts. And that Mr R hadnt  provided 
Santander with information about  the fraudulent activity on his account  with bank B. So 
Santander werent in a position to make  an informed choice about  offering Mr R an account 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
On 18 July 2019, I issued a provisional decision on Mr Rs complaint. In my provisional  
decision, I explained my conclusions  and reasons  why I didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Santander to close Mr Rs accounts.  This was because:
a CIFAS marker had been applied against  Mr Rs name by the time he applied to upgrade 
his account with Santander;
Ref: DRN64502762when Santander  completed its credit  and fraud  checks as part of the application 
process it was notified of the marker  and in accordance  with the terms and conditions  
decided to close Mr Rs accounts; 
at the time of opening his Santander  accounts, under the Payment Regulations  2015  Mr R 
wasnt eligible for a basic bank  account;
I hadnt t seen  any evidence to show that Mr R deliberately withheld information from 
Santander about the activity on his account  with bank  B. However,  based  on the 
circumstances, I thought it unlikely Santander wouldve offered Mr R a bank account, 
had it been made aware by Mr R of what happened  with bank B and 
Santander was entitled to rely on the records CIFAS held. Businesses are required to 
record matters of fact and as a consequence  Santander was entitled to take action based 
on what CIFAS  provided in response to its checks.
I asked Mr R and Santander to let me have any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision. Santander didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr R confirmed hed received my provisional  decision. But he didnt provide any further 
information for me to consider.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr R and Santander havent  made  any more comments, or offered any more evidence,  
my findings  about  this complaint havent changed. 
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6450276