K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax wont consider raising a 
chargeback claim on her behalf  as its out of time.  
background
In April 2017 Ms R booked a number of flights.  I shall refer to the one involved here as M. 
Ms R said she books  a number of flights each year and does not generally keep track of the 
airline as she usually books through a third party agent. She booked using her Halifax debit 
card. 
In April 2018 Ms R said she went online to check in to one of the flights and discovered that 
this particular one had been  booked  with M. Unfortunately M had gone into administration  in 
October 2017. And Ms R said at no point  was she contacted to make her aware of the 
situation and the steps she needed to take to get a full refund. 
Ms R said she took advice from the website and contacted her bank. Halifax advised  that, as 
per chargeback rules, the cut-off date to make  a claim  was 31 January. As a result and with 
accommodation already booked and paid for Ms R said she had to purchase  new flights 
which were more expensive. She brought her complaint to this service. 
Ms R said she has spoken with others in a similar  situation who told her that emails were 
sent to individuals in relation to M going  into liquidation and were able to make  a timely claim 
to have their money  refunded. 
Our investigator thought Ms R had a valid reason code  for requesting  a chargeback  but she 
had not done so within the relevant timescales.  Ms R wasnt  satisfied so asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms R but having  done  so I wont be asking Halifax  to do anything  further.  
Ms R has asked me to look beyond  the banks process to be fair and, to use her words, 
morally correct. I want to reassure her that my role is indeed  to decide  what  I believe to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each complaint.  And in some  cases  this can 
mean looking beyond  the banks processes. Unfortunately the chargeback process is a 
voluntary scheme  and the rules are set by the card scheme itself. So in this complaint it is 
not Halifaxs process at the heart  of this issue but that of the card scheme. And unfortunately 
the rules can be quite strict. 
Ms R has told us that she only discovered her flight was with M when  she went to check-in in 
April. She said she often books flights through a third party  so does not keep a track  of the 
operator. The transaction Ms R is disputing is for £440. Ive looked  at Ms Rs bank 
statements for the period when she booked the flight and this transaction  occurred on 6 April 
2017 and the payee is M. There are other transactions to holiday travel  third parties on 10 
April but these are for different amounts. So I consider that the transaction  on 6 April is the 
Ref: DRN62845952one in dispute. It clearly  states that the payee  is M. And it would be reasonable to expect  
that M sent confirmation of this transaction  and flight(s) to Ms R. So I find it reasonable that 
Ms R ought  reasonably to have been aware that she bought a flight(s)  from M at the time 
she made the booking and that M was who she would be flying with. And so I consider it 
reasonable she could have taken  steps to mitigate her loss sooner. 
Our investigator has explained  the chargeback time rule but Im happy to confirm it here. 
Timescales for submitting  a chargeback  can vary from rule to rule. In certain circumstances,  
a customer may make  a chargeback request to resolve a settlement dispute with a merchant 
(in this case  M). If Halifax decided there  was a reasonable likelihood of success, it would  
then make the chargeback claim to the card scheme. The reason code covering Ms Rs 
claim would be reason code 30  services not provided. The time scale relating to this 
reason code is as set out in the card scheme  chargeback rules:
A Chargeback must be processed no later than either:
120 calendar  days  from the Transaction  Processing Date
If the merchandise  or services were to be provided after the Transaction  
Processing Date, 120 calendar days from the last date that the Cardholder 
expected to receive the merchandise or services or the date that the Cardholder  
was first made  aware  that the merchandise or services would not be provided, 
not to exceed  540 calendar days from the Transaction Processing Date.
M went  into liquidation on 2 October 2017.  The liquidation was widely reported. So I think its 
reasonable to use 120 days  from this date as the time limit that would apply to Ms R asking 
for a chargeback to be made. This would mean the last chargeback  date would be 30 
January 2018.  Ms R didnt complain until April, which  exceeded 120 days. So Im satisfied 
that Ms Rs claim is outside of the 120 day window.  
Ms R has also said she booked  flights for herself  and three  friends. Ms R has not said if she 
was paying for the flights and has received the money from her friends or if she was gifting 
the flights to her friends. So its not clear to me how much she, herself, has lost.
Ms R has also said other people she knows in a similar situation received emails  in relation 
to M and were able to make timely claims to have their money  refunded. I do understand this 
situation must be frustrating for Ms R. My role is to look at the individual  circumstances of 
this complaint so I cant comment on other customers. But Im satisfied it would not be 
Halifaxs responsibility to email Ms R about  her airline booking. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6284595