K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Elite Insurance  Company Limited delayed  dealing with a claim on his 
home insurance policy and didnt agree  to pay the claim.
Where I refer to Elite, this includes agents  and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
Background
In April 2017 Mr W took out a home insurance policy which provided cover for the building 
and its contents.
In November 2017 there was a fire at the property which caused a lot of damage. Mr W 
made a claim on his policy. Elite started  looking into the claim and raised  a number of issues 
with Mr W. After some months had passed Mr W complained to Elite and then to this service  
that his claim hadnt been settled. 
Elite said there were discrepancies in the information Mr W had provided, both when he took 
out his policy  and when he made his claim. In particular, it said Mr W claimed he was living  
in the property but the information it had obtained  indicated this wasnt  correct. Elite said it 
was entitled to investigate this, and Mr W hadnt provided a satisfactory  explanation,  which  is 
why it hadnt yet agreed to pay his claim.
Our investigator agreed that it was reasonable for Elite to carry out these investigations. He 
thought Mr W had been careless  when answering questions asked of him when he bought 
the policy. And he concluded  that if Mr W had answered the questions correctly,  Elite would 
not have offered the policy to him. So he said it would be reasonable for Elite to refuse the 
claim and void the policy,  though it should  return Mr Ws premium.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigator and requested an ombudsmans  decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he requested an ombudsmans  decision, Mr W provided some  general comments  
about how Elite (or others on its behalf) deals with claims. We look at the circumstances of 
each individual  case, so I can only look at how it dealt with this particular claim.
Mr Ws policy includes cover for loss or damage caused by fire. So this is something he 
could claim for. Hes unhappy about the time taken by Elite to consider his claim. And he 
doesnt agree that he made  a misrepresentation when  he bought his policy.
Mr W was asked some questions about  who would live in the property. I think it was clear 
what Mr W was being asked. He said it would be his main residence,  and he and his family 
would live there day and night. 
When Elite investigated  the claim, the information  it obtained indicated  that Mr W had been 
renovating the property  since April 2017; he would stay at the property when he worked late 
there, but would also stay at his wifes house;  and that he and his wife had been living in 
another property  while  he did the renovations, and were due to move in on 14 December. 
Ref: DRN61119422Elite also obtained  information indicating that another  person was living in an annex  at the 
property at the time.
Having considered all the information  Elite obtained, Im satisfied  it was reasonable for it to 
continue investigating  the claim  there were discrepancies in Mr Ws account of his 
circumstances and Elite wished to look into these. I dont think  there  was any unnecessary 
delay while it looked into this. 
Elite hadnt  reached  a final decision  when  Mr W brought  his complaint to us. But we have 
asked Elite and Mr W for their views on this and received comments  from both. Elite says 
there was a misrepresentation but has indicated it would be prepared  to treat it as careless 
and refund the premium if the claim  isnt pursued. For his part, Mr W doesnt accept that he 
made a misrepresentation but has said he will accept the outcome if thats what I decide. So 
Ive gone on to consider this. And comparing the statements  Mr W made  when he bought  his 
policy with the information Elite found,  my view is that he did make  a misrepresentation 
when he bought his policy. Ill explain why
Mr W said he and his family would be living in the property day and night as his main 
residence. In fact, he wasnt living there all the time.  He was renovating the property, and 
spent much of his time with his wife  who at that point was living somewhere else. Its not 
clear exactly  how much  time he spent at each property. I dont think he set out to mislead  
Elite. But taking into account his circumstances, I dont think  he could say he was living there  
permanently. And I think he should  have told Elite he would be renovating the property 
before he and his wife moved in fully. So I agree  he didnt take reasonable care when 
answering the questions.
Elite has shown that it wouldnt have offered a policy if it had known Mr W wasnt occupying 
the property permanently and was renovating it.
The relevant  law - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  
(CIDRA)  sets out what an insurer can do in these circumstances. If the insurer wouldnt 
have offered a policy, it can refuse the claim and void the policy, but should return the 
premium unless the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
Taking into account all the circumstances, I think  it would  be fair to treat this as a careless 
misrepresentation, void the policy  and return the premium. That puts Mr W in the position he 
would have been in if there hadnt  been  a misrepresentation. . 
Although I appreciate it will be very disappointing for Mr W, subject to the premium  being 
refunded I dont think Elite needs  to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6111942