K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that CIGNA Europe  Insurance  Company SA-NV has acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably when dealing with his personal  accident insurance policy.  He wants  a refund 
of some of the premiums  paid and compensation.
background
Mr W took out a personal accident insurance policy about 30 years ago and continued it ever 
since. The policy  has been  transferred to a number of insurers  over the years. Mr W moved 
abroad in about  2002  and ceased  to be a UK resident; he said that he updated the insurer  
about his changes of address. 
When Mr W called CIGNA  in 2018,  he said that he was told that he hadnt in fact been 
covered by the policy and should receive  a refund of the premiums hed paid. Mr W said he 
was then told that no refund was due as he was covered, and a few months later given 
notice that his policy would not be renewed.
Mr W complained  to CIGNA. It said when Mr W moved abroad, it agreed to cover him and 
sent the renewal  documents to his foreign address. CIGNA said that if a claim had been  
made, full cover as set out in the terms and conditions of the policy wouldve been given. It 
refused to refund the premiums paid and said its decision to stop offering the policy  was a 
commercial decision to leave this market. CIGNA accepted that Mr W was incorrectly  initially 
told that due to his residence abroad  the policy didnt cover  him, but noted it did then correct  
the incorrect information and confirmed that he was covered three days later.
Mr W complained  to us and confirmed that hed never needed  to make a claim under the 
policy. The investigators  view was that the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  He said that 
CIGNA had a policy to cover those in Mr Ws position, despite  being resident abroad,  so he 
had the benefit of the policy; this meant it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for any refund of the 
premiums to be made. The investigator  also said that the decision to stop offering the policy 
was a commercial decision an insurer was able to make,  and we wouldnt interfere with that.
Mr W disagreed.  He said the investigator  shouldve listened to the call where  he was given 
incorrect information, rather  than rely on the note written about it. The investigator listened to 
the call recording and noted that the account in the note was correct   Mr W was told that it 
was likely that hed get a refund as he wasnt covered by the policy, but he wasnt  told that 
the policy would be cancelled. The investigator also noted that Mr W was told to email to get 
a formal confirmation of the position,  which he received (explaining  that he was covered).He 
didnt change his view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view for the same reasons hes given. First, while  strictly the 
policy didnt cover non-UK  residents, CIGNA  had a policy of covering individuals  in Mr Ws 
position and so any valid claim he made  wouldve been dealt with. This means  Mr W did 
have the benefit of the policy and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for the premiums  to be 
refunded as CIGNA  was at risk of making a payment under the policy.
Ref: DRN60907402But I did think about the call with CIGNAs  staff and whether Mr W had been treated fairly 
and reasonably. I think that he was  first, he was told that it was possible that the policy  
didnt cover him and if so, a refund would be given. But he was also told to email  CIGNA so 
the position could be confirmed. CIGNA responded swiftly and explained the correct position  
to Mr W. Mr W wasnt told that his policy would be cancelled; in fact, his policy was never 
cancelled and he only complained about this call when  CIGNA later said it was withdrawing 
from this market and couldnt offer a new policy on renewal.  I think that any trouble and 
upset Mr W has suffered  is due to the refusal  to offer a new policy.
Insurers are able to stop offering a particular  type of policy or withdraw from part or all of the 
market; this is a commercial decision and this service doesnt interfere, other than to ensure 
all consumers are treated fairly and reasonably. Mr W was given notice of the decision and I 
cant say that hes been treated unfairly or unreasonably  compared  to other consumers who 
have held the policy for a long period of time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
22 February 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6090740