K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he was financing  under an agreement  with Black 
Horse Limited (Black Horse).
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Black Horse,  who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr D. The car here 
was around two and a half years old and had completed about 35,000  miles.  So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some  wear and tear to be present.
It wasnt until January 2019  that Mr D experienced problems  with his car. The relevant 
legislation says that if a fault becomes apparent  after the consumer  has been in possession 
of the vehicle for more than six months, the onus is on the consumer to demonstrate the 
fault was there when  the car was supplied; the point at which the finance company are 
responsible for the cars quality.
Mr D emailed Black Horse  to tell them that an independent mechanic had confirmed there 
was low oil pressure, a turbo fault and that the engine was knocking after it had become 
necessary to recover his car following a breakdown. 
Ref: DRN68571112But Mr D hasnt provided any further  evidence of that. Hes not been able to confirm  who the 
independent engineer was or what garage  the car was recovered to.
Whilst Mr D says the faults the car experienced were due to a manufacturing fault, in the 
absence of any further information  to support his claims the car was faulty it would not be fair 
to suggest there is sufficient evidence there  was anything wrong with the car.
Mr D was clearly  able to cover more than average  mileage in the vehicle in the first year as 
the MOT records  demonstrate that. I think if there  was a problem with the car it would be 
unlikely to complete  that amount of mileage. 
I can see the car has now been collected  by Black  Horse  and sold at auction.  Having  
reviewed the documentation from the inspector  who collected the car there is no mention of 
any faults with it and I can see that the car was sold at auction  shortly afterwards. So, again,  
I dont think theres evidence here of any fault with the vehicle.
I can see the car was the subject of a recall notice in which the Exhaust Gas Recirculation 
cooler would  need  to be replaced. But recall notices dont, in themselves, demonstrate a 
fault with a car: only the fact that the manufacturer deems it necessary to complete some  
work in case the car is impacted by an issue they feel may develop in some models. 
So, overall, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  of a fault with this car and Im 
therefore not persuaded there is sufficient evidence it was of unsatisfactory  quality.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2021.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6857111