K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Canada  Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square), trading at the 
time as Egg, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 3 October  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explained why I wasnt 
intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Canada Square  didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr W responded in a call with this service  saying he didnt  agree  with the decision He said 
he was told to take out PPI to get the credit card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W has said in response to my provisional decision - 
about being told to take out the PPI to get his card. But as I said in the provisional decision, 
this was an online application and Mr W was given a clear choice between  two equally 
prominent options - taking  the cover or declining it. And I havent seen anything to suggest  
that Mr W was given  the false impression by Canada Square that he had to choose to take 
PPI to get his card application approved. So what Mr W has said doesnt change  my mind  
about not upholding his complaint.
This means  that Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr W 
because: 
Canada Square  Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt  tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
Ref: DRN68431452my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  to Mr W  so 
Canada Square  Operations Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr W.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68431453copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr W complains that Canada  Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square), trading at the 
time as Egg, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr W was sold the PPI policy in 2003,  at the same time as taking out a credit  card online. It 
covered his card repayments for up to twelve months if Mr W was unable to work because of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.
 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Canada  Square disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in this provisional  decision on Mr Ws case.
Ive looked at a copy  of Canada Squares online credit card application  process from the 
time of Mr Ws sale. Theres a section in this dealing with PPI, which briefly  explains the 
scope of the cover offered and its price  of 74p per £100 of the customers  monthly statement 
balance. The consumer  was then asked to choose  between two options  - taking the cover or 
declining it. 
Both options were equally prominent and neither  one appears to have been pre-selected.  
According to the electronic record of Mr Ws application, he chose the option to buy PPI. And 
Ive not seen any evidence that the PPI was presented as anything other than an optional 
extra. So I think its most likely that Canada Square  made Mr W aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he actively  decided  to take it. But I can understand why he no 
longer recalls this after so many years.
I dont think that Canada Square advised Mr W to take the PPI. So it didnt need to ensure 
that it was suitable for him. But it did need to give him enough information so that he could 
decide if it was right for him. I think its likely that the information Canada Square gave Mr W 
could have been better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed  
his mind about taking  it. I say this because:
Mr W appears to have  been eligible for the policy  and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN68431454Mr W says he didnt need  the PPI cover  because he had other  means of making his card 
repayments if he was unable to work. In response to a further request from us, he has 
now said that at the time of the sale he was entitled to statutory sick pay and had savings 
which he thought  would have been  worth a few thousand pounds.  But this policy would 
have paid out in addition  to these other  means. And the policy could have paid out for up 
to twelve months,  which is longer than these other means are likely to have lasted. So I 
still think that Mr W would have thought the policy gave him valuable  additional  cover  if 
things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr W. And as the premiums were  
paid monthly, he could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met his needs.
So, whilst I appreciate that this will be a disappointment to Mr W, I currently dont think  that 
hes lost out by anything that Canada Square may have done wrong when it sold him this 
PPI policy.
This means  that I dont currently think Canada Square Operations  Limited  has to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr W 
because: 
Canada Square  Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt  tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold to Mr W  
so it doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  intend to award any further  compensation.   
I now invite all parties to submit any further evidence  or comments they wish me to consider 
by 3 November  2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6843145