K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling of their
subsidence claim, under their buildings insurance policy.
When I refer to Ageas,  Im also referring  to any of their appointed agents or representatives.
Mr S has represented himself and his wife throughout the claim with Ageas and while the
complaint has been at our service. So, for ease of reading, Ill refer to him throughout my 
decision.
background
Mr S noticed  some  cracks  to the front left-hand side of his house in October  2016.  He
reported the damage to Ageas. Ageas sent a surveyor to Mr S house to inspect the cracks.
The surveyor felt the cracks could have been  caused by some local vegetation, so Ageas
referred the matter  onto their subsidence team.
Ageas received a report from their subsidence experts at the beginning of November 2016. It
said the damage to Mr S house was consistent  with subsidence damage and was as a
result of clay shrinkage. The report advised  Mr S to remove  a shrub  that was located  close
to the area of damage.  It also said that site tests would be carried  out to assess any further
reasons for the subsidence.
Mr S removed the shrub as advised. But the site tests carried out suggested that the
subsidence had been caused by trees located  outside of Mr S property boundary,  which
they believed  to be owned by the local authority. An arborist report  was recommended  and
the area of damage to Mr S house  continued to be monitored.
The arborist  report was received by Ageas in April 2017. The report  said there were four
trees causing the subsidence  and the local authority should be notified.  It recommended the
trees should  be removed.  Ageas asked  its mitigation  team to liaise with the local authority
about the removal of the trees.
The local authority didnt respond  for a couple of months. Ageas completed a land registry
search in June 2017 and found  the trees to be owned by the Royal  Society for the Protection
of Birds (RSPB). They sent the reports and the search to RSPBs insurer and asked them  to
agree and arrange for the trees removal, although the reports  werent sent until August
2017.
RSPBs insurer  acknowledged receipt of the information in August 2017 and confirmed
theyd be speaking to RSPB.  But it wasnt until March 2018 that they got back  in contact with
Ageas. At this time, they asked if a drain  survey had been completed,  as that could be the
problem causing  the subsidence.  Ageas  explained  that no drain survey had taken place.
They also said that the monitoring that had taken place  over the previous 15 months
indicated the problem was caused  due to the trees and clay shrinkage  and provided all the
reports to RSPBs insurer.
It wasnt until early  October 2018  that RSPBs insurer sent a surveyor to Mr S house to
inspect the trees. Between  May and October  2018,  the damage  to the house had continued
to worsen, and Mr S had problems with some of his windows. They  couldnt  be closed
properly, and some temporary repairs were  needed.
Ref: DRN69559092By the end of October  2018 Mr S was getting  increasingly worried.  The damage to the wall
of his house was getting worse and he wasnt sure it was safe.  He suggested  to Ageas that
an alternative solution was needed as RSPBs insurer was taking too long to give their
answer. Mr S wanted a root barrier to be fitted.  Ageas were open to this solution but wanted
to wait until the deadline had passed for RSPBs insurer to respond  before moving  forward
with this. In the meantime,  they offered to undertake the temporary repairs to the wall at
Mr S house.
As RSPBs insurer hadnt responded  by early January 2019, Ageas instructed their expert  to
provide a feasibility  report  for a root barrier to be fitted. At this point Mr S made a formal
complaint to Ageas. He felt the claim had taken  too long to get to this stage.
The feasibility report was received by Ageas in mid-January 2019. A further  deadline was
given to RSPBs insurer for mid-April 2019  to arrange for the trees to be removed. Ageas
replied to Mr S complaint  and said that, if the trees werent removed by this time, they would
go ahead  with the root barrier and ask RSPBs insurer to reimburse the costs to them.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service.  By the time our investigator had reviewed the
claim and issued his findings in July 2019,  the situation had moved on slightly.  RSPBs
insurer had responded to Ageas by the deadline  of mid-April 2019.  They  said they had to be
sure there werent any bats nesting  in the trees before agreeing to their removal. Because of
this further delay, Ageas gave instruction to their expert to go ahead  with the root barrier
scheme. RSPBs insurer asked for this to be put on hold while they assessed  the trees for
bat life. Ageas agreed to this. However, although  no bats were found to be living or nesting
in the trees,  there was evidence of other birds nesting. The trees werent removed, and the
root barrier  scheme was instructed again.  The work to install the root barrier  wasnt  started
until June 2019.
While waiting for a decision to be made, Mr S had noticed some  vibration  in his central
heating system. Ageas  agreed that Mr S could use his own plumber to fix the vibration. Even
though Mr S or his plumber couldnt be certain  the vibration had been caused  by the
subsidence in the walls,  Ageas agreed  to cover the cost of the call out and the repair  work
needed.
Our investigator said that Ageas  hadnt done  all they could to progress the claim. He said he
felt there  were delays  from October 2018 and the root barrier  should have been fitted sooner
than it was. He asked Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs S £225 compensation for the upset theyd
been caused. He also asked Ageas to settle  Mr S plumbing costs of £184.
Ageas agreed  to this. But Mr S didnt. He felt the level of compensation should be increased.
As Mr S didnt agree,  it was passed  to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 June 2020.  It said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im minded to ask Ageas
to do more than our investigator  recommended.  Ill explain  why.
Before I explain my decision, I must confirm that Im only looking into the circumstances of
the claim up until the date our investigator issued his opinion  in July 2019.  I understand from
Mr S that hes still unhappy with events after that date, but he will need  to speak to Ageas
Ref: DRN69559093and raise a new complaint  about  those issues.
Mr S buildings insurance policy covers him for damage caused by subsidence.  And Ageas
accepted the claim in October 2016.  So, the only thing I need  to decide on is if Ageas have
progressed the claim as well as they could  have done, and if they havent,  if Mr and Mrs S
are entitled  to any form of compensation. In this case, I dont think  Ageas have done all they
could, and therefore Mr and Mrs S are entitled to some compensation.
Ageas acted quickly when they were notified  of the claim in early October 2016. Their
subsidence experts visited Mr S and provided their report at the beginning of November.
This report categorised  the structural subsidence  damage as Category 4  which  is
described as severe. This categorisation, along  with Mr and Mrs S age and Mr S previous
health concerns  which  hed informed  Ageas of, should have highlighted the need for prompt
action to be taken  by Ageas to progress the claim.  But even in these early stages,
information provided by Ageas shows there were delays in moving  the claim forward.
Ageas received the preliminary  report in November 2016, which  suggested the removal of a
shrub in Mr S garden  and site tests  should be carried out. But the outcome of those site
tests wasnt known by Ageas  until the end of February 2017,  even though  the tests had been
carried out in December 2016. Ageas did chase their experts  on a couple of occasions. But
there was a period between the end of December 2016 and the beginning of February 2017
when no updates were requested, and Ageas didnt ask for the present position on the
reports.
And it was only in February  2017 that an arborist was appointed to compile  a report on the
trees located  outside of Mr S property boundary. It wasnt until late April 2017  when it was
decided that the trees were thought to be owned  by Mr S local authority and a decision was
made to liaise  with them.
Whilst I accept  that arranging inspections and compiling reports takes  time,  Im not
persuaded that six months from Mr S reporting  the claim to Ageas getting to the stage of
beginning to liaise with the local authority is reasonable. Ageas were aware of the severity of
the damage to the house and Id expect them to have been  more proactive in chasing  their
experts for updates and moving the claim to the next stage.
Once Ageas  knew they needed to speak to the local authority, and a few months later the
RSPB, Im satisfied they chased for updates on a regular basis. Claims of this nature that
involve third party organisations and insurers can take some  time to finalise. And, in this
case the majority of the delays in progressing  the claim were caused  by RSPBs insurer.
There was a period  between  October  2017  and April 2018 when RSPBs insurer  didnt
respond to any of Ageas requests for an update. But Ageas  has shown that it was emailing
and chasing for an update each month.
Ageas continued  to ask for updates on a monthly basis until October 2018. During that time,
RSPBs insurer  raised some concerns about the cause of the cracks and asked for the drain
surveys to be provided. But Ageas dealt with those  concerns and provided all the monitoring
reports from Mr S house that showed  the movement was more prevalent during certain
times of the year, lending  itself to be caused by the trees  rather than any drain blockage or
damage.
But I do think Ageas  could have moved the claim forward  to a resolution sooner than they
did from October 2018. It was at this time that Mr S suggested a root barrier was installed as
Ref: DRN69559094he was concerned that the damage was continuing  to worsen,  and other things were starting
to go wrong in the house. He was concerned  that the internal pipe work was being  affected
by the movement in the wall and he wanted to get his house  stabilised. Ageas agreed to the
root barrier  solution  and accepted that RSPBs insurer hadnt  responded by the deadline
Ageas had imposed. But they didnt  move the root barrier proposal forward until a few
months later. It wasnt until January 2019  that Ageas appointed  another  expert to produce a
feasibility report for the root barrier,  and it was March 2019 before the root barrier  was
scheduled in to be installed.
Even once  the root barrier  had been  approved, it was several months until it was installed.
Again, a lot of the delay  was caused  by RSPBs  insurer. They  wanted to check the trees for
confirmation no bats were  present in them and, even  though  bat life wasnt  found, there were
other nesting birds  located. But Im satisfied that Ageas should have taken the option  to
install the root barrier  once RSPB had failed to respond to the original deadline it was given.
Ageas were  aware  of the severity of the damage from the outset,  were  aware it had
continued to deteriorate and were aware  of Mr S age and health  concerns. Allowing RSPB
to continue to delay added to Mr and Mrs S worries  and upset and wasnt  necessary  in this
case.
I accept that Ageas arranged some temporary repairs to the external wall in October 2018,
and it has also offered to settle the invoice  for the plumbing work Mr S had done, even
though the vibration in the central  heating  couldnt be linked to the subsidence damage. But I
think the delays  throughout the claim have  caused Mr and Mrs S considerable upset.
Although theyve continued  to live in the house, theyve had additional burdens placed on
them and concerns raised about  the safety of the house. At times  during the summer  months
theyve been reluctant  to open their windows in the damaged area of the house, for fear that
they wouldnt be able to close them properly. I dont think thats reasonable and Im asking
Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs S £600  for the upset theyve been through.  This is in addition  to
settling the plumbing  works for £184.
Ageas responded and accepted my provisional  decision.
Mr S also responded.  He explained what had happened with the claim since July 2019, 
outlining some more  concerns.  He also said that he felt the compensation was too low. He 
would like his subsidence excess  of £1,000 to be waived.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.  Ill explain why. 
In my provisional decision I explained  to both parties that I was only considering  what had 
happened up until our investigator issued his opinion  in July 2019.  Mr S has made several  
comments in his response to the provisional decision, explaining whats  happened  since  
July 2019. If Mr S remains unhappy,  he will need  to raise his concerns with Ageas. I wont be 
commenting on those  concerns here.  
Mr S has also said he believes his £1,000 subsidence excess  should  be waived. I dont 
agree. I have decided  that Ageas are responsible for some  of the delays experienced by 
Mr and Mrs S throughout the claim. And Ive awarded them appropriate compensation for 
those delays. But Ageas  has accepted the subsidence claim and are working towards a 
Ref: DRN69559095resolution for Mr and Mrs S. So, I dont think its reasonable for the excess  payment to be 
waived too.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
For the reasons  above, I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs S £184 for the plumbing  works completed;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on this amount, from when Mr S paid for the 
completed work to the date this amount is settled; *
Pay Mr and Mrs S £600 compensation for the upset theyve been caused by Ageas 
delays throughout  the claim.  
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Ageas Insurance  Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest they should  tell Mr and Mrs S how much has been taken off. 
Ageas Insurance Limited should give Mr and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6955909