K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the rejection of his claim by Amtrust Europe Limited. 
background
Mr Ms mobile phone  was water damaged on holiday  and he claimed. Amtrust have rejected 
the claim for two main reasons, lack of proof of ownership and lack of care of the device. Mr 
M complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and upheld the complaint, they thought  the 
claim should be progressed. Amtrust  didnt  agree,  so the case has been  passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding  the complaint too, for roughly the same reasons as the adjudicator. 
Mr Ms phone  was purchased second hand  through a well known website. Due to this he 
hasnt got the extensive  proof  of purchase that Amtrust say they require. But, like the 
adjudicator I dont think that level of proof  is reasonable. The policy  clearly  covers second 
hand phones and I think Amtrust have to be realistic here about the level of proof required. 
Mr M has shown  he purchased a phone, and used  a phone  on a sim only contract. I have no 
reason to think this wasnt the same phone, and should Amtrust not want  to cover  such 
situations they may need to ask themselves  why they give cover for second  hand phones in 
the policy. 
I would have had more sympathy  for Amtrust had the Keyfacts document  for the policy 
highlighted the extensive proof needed,  but it doesnt. And I think it only fair that I apply a 
reasonableness test here, and I think Mr M has provided what I consider acceptable  proof of 
purchase and use in the context of a second  hand phone on a sim only contract. 
Turning to the care of the device, again  I note the policy provides extensive cover for 
activities near water, indeed it lists many water based sports that it covers. If Amtrust dont 
want to cover water damage to phones they might  want to look at the policy cover again. Mr 
Ms phone was apparently  in a pocket and I think that is a reasonable enough precaution 
unless he thought he was going to be immersed in water,  which he was not. 
I also note that when talking about gadget  damage and what  isnt covered the policy  only 
mentions damage  deliberately caused by you or bound  to happen. I dont think  either of 
those things have  been proven here, so I think the claim should  be reconsidered. 
Ref: DRN67598342my final decision
Amtrust Europe Limited should reconsider Mr Ms claim under the rest of his policy  without 
considering the ownership proof  or lack of care exclusions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6759834