K822xcomplaint
Miss D complains that a car she has been  financing through an agreement with FirstRand 
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), has not been of satisfactory 
quality.
background 
Miss D took receipt of a used car in January 2018. She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car had already completed 
about 43,000 miles  and was a little over three  years  old.
But Miss D had problems  with the car. The roof leaked and she had problems closing it so 
Miss D commissioned an independent engineer to inspect the car.
He was shocked by its condition and thought  it was very likely it had been in a previous 
accident. 
MotoNovo agreed  to allow Miss D to reject  the vehicle and terminate her contract with them.  
They also say they agreed to pay; £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
shed experienced; £79.11 towards the insurance commission  and administration fee; £225 
for diagnostics; £200 for the independent  inspection; a refund of two monthly finance 
instalments and £2,264.05 of negative equity was written off when the contract was 
terminated.
But Miss D wasnt satisfied with their action. Our adjudicator agreed.  He thought the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  didnt fully reflect the difficulties Miss D had 
experienced. He noted that she travelled extensively in her job and he thought  the problems 
shed had with the car would have particularly inconvenienced  her. So he thought MotoNovo 
should increase  this element of the redress by a further £200 to £350. He also didnt think  
MotoNovo had fully compensated  Miss D for the consequential insurance  losses shed 
incurred. He thought they should reimburse  the cost of Miss D having to add herself on her 
mothers insurance and the cost of her insurance  cancelation. He thought  this was £183.49 
and he noted  MotoNovo  had already refunded  £79.11. So he thought they should  pay the 
balance which was £104.38.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the adjudicators  suggestion. They  said theyd taken  the unusual  
step of waiving the negative equity that had been carried  over into Miss Ds finance 
agreement and that the overall compensation shed received  was now fair. So they asked for 
a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that may disappoint MotoNovo so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN60059732Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss D acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss D. The car 
here was around  three years old and had travelled about 43,000 miles.
I would agree with the adjudicator that this car was not of acceptable quality. I think the 
evidence provided  suggests its likely it had been involved in a previous accident and I think 
its reasonable to suggest the problems  Miss D had with adequate roof closure had resulted 
from that accident. I dont  think  a reasonable person  would expect a car of this age and 
mileage to have a roof that wouldnt close properly  and Im pleased to see MotoNovo have 
been prepared  to allow Miss D to reject  the vehicle  rather than repair it.
I would however agree with the adjudicator  that MotoNovo should do a little more to 
compensate Miss D and to reimburse  the losses she incurred as a consequence of having  
been supplied  a vehicle that wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
Miss D clearly travels extensively for work and I think her travel would have been 
significantly impeded. Her enjoyment  of the vehicle  has been impacted  to. Shes had to put 
up with a damp smell in the car and shes been driving it with a roof that wouldnt close 
properly. So with these  issues in mind and having considered all the facts in this case,  I think  
MotoNovo should  increase the compensation for distress and inconvenience and I think a 
further £200 would be sufficient.
Miss D has had to cancel her insurance and has incurred a consequential loss that should 
be returned to her. Shes understandably had to get insured elsewhere and I think  its 
reasonable to suggest that the insurance  to drive her mothers  car is also a consequential 
loss. So Im asking  MotoNovo to reimburse the difference between what  theyve already 
reimbursed and the true cost. Ive reviewed  the adjudicators calculation and agree that 
£104.38 is the difference.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited  to, 
in addition to the settlement already agreed, pay Miss D:
a further £200 for distress and inconvenience
a further £104.38 to cover additional  insurance  consequential loss
Ref: DRN60059733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6005973