K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1998 and then transferred  to cover a re-mortgage in 2010.  The policy covered 
Mr H only. Mr and Mrs H say Yorkshire  Building  Society, trading as Norwich & Peterborough  
Building Society (N&P), mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold in 1998, but was mis-sold in 2010. 
Ill explain  why below.
1998 sale
Mr and Mrs H initially took out PPI with their mortgage in 1998.
N&P has said that the mortgage Mr and Mrs H applied for came with a fixed  interest rate for 
three years. But it has also said that Mr and Mrs H had to take out PPI in order to get that 
fixed rate.
Just because Mr and Mrs H had to take PPI with the mortgage  they applied  for doesnt mean 
that the PPI was mis-sold.  N&P has sent us a copy of the mortgage  offer letter for Mr and 
Mrs Hs mortgage. And this says that the fixed interest rate is conditional  on Mr and Mrs H 
taking out PPI and then keeping the PPI for the three year period. So I think N&P made  it 
clear to Mr and Mrs H that they had to have PPI with their mortgage.
If Mr and Mrs H didnt want the PPI, I think they could have applied for a different mortgage 
with N&P or applied to a different mortgage  provider. So I think  Mr and Mrs H were  happy to 
have the PPI in order  to get the fixed interest rate and the mortgage they wanted.
I havent seen  clear evidence that N&P gave Mr and Mrs H and personalised advice about 
the PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to them. This means it didnt have to check  
if it was right for them.  But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs H got the information they 
needed to decide if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information N&P gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr H was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs H have told us Mr H wouldve been 
entitled to sick pay. So it would have  been useful for them if something went  wrong.
Mr and Mrs H have said that they had significant savings they couldve used to make their 
repayments and that their parents wouldve helped them.  But the policy  couldve paid out for 
longer than their savings  wouldve replaced  Mr Hs income. And peoples financial 
circumstances can change, so their parents  might  not have been able to help them when 
Ref: DRN60658072they needed it. The PPI wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on their parents  if Mr H 
wasnt working. So I still think  it would  have been  useful for them.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Hs property couldve 
bene at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs H off taking it out. 
Which means N&P doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But N&P will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because :
N&P got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because N&P didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, N&P has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
2010 sale
Mr and Mrs H re-mortgaged  in 2010 and the PPI policy was transferred to cover the new 
mortgage.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint in relation to this sale because  I dont think  N&P made it 
clear enough  to Mr and Mrs H that they had a choice about taking the PPI.
N&P has said that Mr and Mrs H would  have had to complete  a policy  transfer form to 
transfer the policy from their previous mortgage  to the new one. But it hasnt been able to 
send us a copy  of this form.
N&P has sent us a copy of the mortgage offer letter which says that Mr and Mrs H dont 
have to take out any insurance with them. But this doesnt specifically  mention  PPI or show 
that Mr and Mrs H chose  to transfer the PPI.
N&P has also sent us a telephone note from its records  which says Mr and Mrs H have PPI 
and will take it with them to the new mortgage. But this doesnt show  that Mr and Mrs H were 
given a clear choice about whether to transfer the PPI or not.
So I dont  think theres enough evidence for me to say that N&P made it clear to Mr and 
Mrs H that they had a choice about  the PPI. And I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have 
transferred the policy if N&P had made  it clear  that they had a choice about it. So I think  Mr 
and Mrs H have lost out as a result of what N&P did wrong.
putting things right
For the policy sold in 1998, N&P should pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  N&P should also pay back  to 
Mr and Mrs H any extra interest they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN60658073N&P should pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. N&P should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest on each payment.
For the policy sold in 2010, N&P should put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out the PPI. The policy  should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  
already, and N&P should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year from then on*.
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  N&P can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I partially  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Yorkshire Building Society should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6065807