K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1986. Mr and Mrs M say Santander  UK Plc (trading as National & Provincial at the time) mis-
sold them  the PPI. The PPI covered Mr M for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
In my provisional decision of 7 February 2019 I explained why I wasnt  minded to uphold  this 
complaint. In response to that provisional decision neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs M had 
any further comments to add.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
In my provisional decision I explained  the following:
Despite the fact that this sale took place  over 30 years ago, Santander has been able to 
provide copies of the mortgage  application, mortgage details document, and PPI 
application form. Some of these  documents are not particularly easy to read, but I dont 
think thats surprising  given their age. And Im satisfied that I can see enough of what  
these documents  contained to make a fair decision about  how the PPI was sold. 
Mr and Mrs M completed their mortgage application  in July 1986,  and the application form 
gave a clear choice about whether  they wanted to take PPI. It asked them to tick a box if 
they did want cover, and I can see that, at this time,  Mr and Mrs M did not choose to take 
the PPI. So I think  theyd have understood that the PPI was not a requirement of the 
mortgage. It looks like the PPI was then discussed  again around a month later, and a 
mortgage details  document  was produced on 5 August 1986 which  set out the cost of the 
PPI policy. The next day, Mr M signed  a separate PPI application to confirm he wanted 
the cover. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed  at the time, and its possible that Santander  told 
Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was a good idea,  but I dont think  thats the same  as saying 
they had to have it. And with everything Ive seen, I think it would have been clear from 
the way the PPI was presented that it was not a compulsory part of the mortgage. So I 
think Mr and Mrs M chose  to take the PPI out to cover Mr M, although I can understand 
why they might not remember  that now given how long ago this sale took place.
I think its likely that Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr M  as the sole policy  holder 
 so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. And based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. We dont have a policy  document from 1986, 
and I dont think thats surprising given the time that has passed since  the sale. But Ive 
seen the closest  policy document  that Santander  has available.  And Ive also thought 
about what I know about how PPI policies usually worked. 
With everything I know about PPI, I think its unlikely  that Mr M was affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. He also seems to have had a need  for the cover  
as hes told us he had a small amount of savings and was entitled to only 8 weeks  full pay 
Ref: DRN68115792if he had been  too ill to work. This policy would have helped  cover the mortgage 
payments for up to 24 months if Mr M had become unemployed or had been too ill to 
work. So given  that the mortgage  was a significant  financial commitment  secured against 
Mr and Mrs Ms home, I think it could have provided them with a useful benefit.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think they chose  to take it out to cover Mr M - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - including  their concerns about  the 
claim Santander says Mr M made  in 2003. Theyve  said they dont remember  this claim and 
do not believe the benefit was paid. But Ive not seen anything  to suggest that the benefit 
wasnt paid, so this point doesnt  change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ms commission was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs M back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
As neither Mr and Mrs F nor NatWest has said anything to make me change  my mind,  I still 
dont think this complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6811579