K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr M took four instalment  loans from Satsuma between October 2016 and February 2018. 
Details of the 4 loans are as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Total repaid
Instalments in weeks
Highest repayment
Date repaid
1 28/10/2016 500 £782.51 17 £46.06 06/02/2017
2 10/12/2016 1000 £1719.90 21 £81.90 28/03/2017
3 14/01/2018 800 £1375.92 21 £65.52 18/06/2018
4 24/02/2018 800 £1592.10 30 £53.07 18/06/2018
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter  to both 
parties where he didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint.  He concluded that Satsuma didnt  need  to 
carry out any further checks at the time it granted  the four loans  to Mr M and didnt do 
anything wrong. 
Mr M didnt  agree with our adjudicator. He said his finances were  under pressure at the time 
each loan was granted  and that he had no disposable income with which to repay them.  He 
also said he was repaying an Individual Voluntary  Arrangement (IVA) at the time the first 
loan was given  to him and so he shouldnt have been given it.
Our adjudicator asked  for further information from Mr M about  the IVA. Mr M then sent in a 
letter addressed to a family relation where a large repayment had been made and 
confirmation was made  regarding  this. Our adjudicator responded to Mr M about this and 
said that the letter was dated before the first loan and so didnt change his opinion that 
Satsuma didnt do anything wrong  when it granted him the loans. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
M could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN69488602But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his income  
and his normal expenditure. It gathered  data from credit  reference agencies. And it then 
used this information to calculate how much disposable income Mr M had left over each  
month. Satsuma also used the credit reference  agency checks  to gather  some more 
information about Mr Ms financial situation  at that time.
Mr M has told our service  that his finances  were under significant pressure at the time he 
applied for each of the loans with Satsuma  and he also had an IVA that he had to repay. He 
says that Satsuma should have picked up on his circumstances at the time he granted  each  
of the loans when it did its credit  checks.  
I have seen results from the credit  checks that Satsuma carried  out at the time. These 
checks failed to show any information that might  have suggested Mr M was having problems 
managing his money. The checks  didnt show any concerning information  such  as a reliance 
on other short term loans,  or delinquent or defaulted accounts. It also didnt show  that he 
had an IVA either on each  of the four checks it carried  out. That said,  from the letter supplied 
by Mr M and the date recorded on it, it may well be the IVA had been repaid by the time he 
applied for the first loan. This could explain why it didnt register  on the data provided to 
Satsuma by the credit agency it was using at that time.
In any case, a lender might only see a small portion of the consumers credit file, or some 
data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this maybe 
the reason why Mr Ms IVA didnt appear on the credit search  results  provided to Satsuma. It 
may also explain that even though Mr M says that he was having  problems managing  his 
money at the time, this was not reflected in the credit search information collated by 
Satsuma at the time of each of the four loans. 
Ref: DRN69488603Mr M first approach  Satsuma in October 2016 for his first loan. The repayments that Mr M 
had agreed to make on this loan were relatively  modest compared  to the income  that hed 
declared to Satsuma. This was the first time Mr M had approached Satsuma for a loan from 
what I have seen, I dont  think  there  was any reason  for Satsuma to doubt the information Mr 
M had provided about his income  and expenditure. He then took out a further loan around 5 
weeks later before he repaid his first loan and this was affordable based on what he had told 
them as well. He then repaid these loans  and didnt approach Satsuma  again  for a further 10 
months. I think  it is fair and reasonable for Satsuma at this stage to consider Mr M had not 
become reliant  on its loans based  on what he was telling it, its credit  check data and the long 
gap between him repaying  loans 1 and 2 and asking for loans 3 and 4.
And based on what he had told Satsuma and the credit checks  it carried  out, the repayments 
for loans  3 and 4 appeared  to be easily affordable. So given these repayment amounts, what  
was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of these loans, the gap of around 10 
months in lending and his lack of borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  
been proportionate for Satsuma to ask him for the amount  of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending for loans 3 and 4 was unsustainable either. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms comments about his finances at the time the loans were granted,  and 
that he had other short  term loans to repay.  But that wasnt something he told Satsuma 
when he asked for the loans, nor do I think it is something Satsuma should have discovered 
from proportionate checks. I think it was reasonable  here for Satsuma to rely on the 
information that Mr M provided  about his finances  when assessing  the affordability  of the 
loans. I dont think it would be proportionate to expect Satsuma to have gone further and 
sought to independently  verify what Mr M had said. And as the information Mr M provided  
suggested that the loans  were affordable for him I dont think that Satsuma  did anything 
wrong when it agreed to lend.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6948860