K821x#15complaint
Mr T and Mr C have  complained  about  repairs  carried  out to the roof of their block  of 
flats by a predecessor  of East West  Insurance  Company  Limited  (EWIC)  under  a 
building  warranty.
background
In this decision  references  to EWIC  include  its predecessor.
Mr T and Mr C represent  the leaseholders  of a block  of flats managed  by W, a limited  
company.  In 2010  the leaseholders  made  a claim  to EWIC  for a defective  flat roof. 
EWIC  accepted  the claim  and replaced  the roof. The leaseholders  contacted  EWIC  
again  in 2017  because  the roof was leaking.  EWIC  replaced  the roof a second  time.
The leaseholders  say that the latest  roof doesnt  comply  with building  regulations  
because  its too flat. Theyre  also concerned  that this invalidates  the manufacturers  
guarantee.  Theyd  like EWIC  to make  the roof compliant  with current  building  
regulations.
EWIC  said it wouldnt  carry  out any other  repairs  to the roof as the warranty  had now 
expired  and there  was no evidence  that its repair  wasnt  effective.  
I issued  a provisional  decision  explaining  why I was minded  to uphold  the complaint.  
An extract  from my provisional  findings  is set out below:
EWIC  said theres  no expert  evidence  that its repair  wont  be effective  and lasting.  
Since  our investigator  issued  a view on this complaint,  Mr T and Mr C have  provided  a 
copy  of a surveyors  report  on the roof. In summary  the surveyor  says:
When  he lifted  the paving  stones  on the balcony  roof he found  a pool of water  
ranging  from 15 to 25mm  deep.
The fall in the roof covering  meant  all the water  from one area of the roof went  to 
one outlet  which  was insufficient  and so water  would  continue  to collect  with a risk 
of it getting  into the apartment  below.
In the light of this I think  there  is evidence  that the repair  hasnt  been  effective  and there  
is a risk of damage  in the event  of heavy  rain.
I think  the concerns  about  the repair  are supported  by further  evidence  provided  by 
Mr T and Mr C from the manufacturer  of the roof covering.  That shows  the guarantee  
has now been  suspended  because  the roof covering  wasnt  installed  in accordance  with 
the manufacturers  requirements  for a fall on the roof of a minimum  of 1:80 to prevent  
water  ponding.
With regard  to how to put this right Mr T and Mr Cs surveyor  says:
"The  only adequate  and cost effective  way to address  this issue,  is to take up the 
mineral  felt roof coverings  and relay  these  to the correct  falls,  towards  the existing  weir 
outlet.
Ref: DRN66635432A second  weir outlet  could  be created  at the low point  (where  the water  is currently  
ponding)  but this would  require  planning  approval,  scaffolding  and a significant  cost 
outlay  to install  such  an outlet."
The manufacturer  of the roof covering  says  the fall on the roof needs  to be rectified  
before  the guarantee  can be reinstated.
In order  to ensure  that its previous  repair  is lasting  and effective  Im minded  to say 
that the fall on the roof needs  to be corrected  so that at a minimum  it meets  the 
manufacturers  requirements.
I dont  think  it would  be fair to require  EWIC  to install  further  drainage  since  this would  
be an improvement  to the original  roof and there  is no suggestion  that this is essential  
as opposed  to desirable  in order  to correct  the current  problems.
In response Mr T and Mr C said:
The works should be carried out between May and August 2020 to reduce the risk of 
further water damage while the works  were  ongoing.
EWICs nominated  building contractor should  give a guarantee for their workmanship.
EWIC should pay their surveyors costs  of £500 plus VAT for the report  and a further 
£500 plus VAT for carrying out an inspection when  the works have been completed.
EWIC said the manufacturer of the roof had suggested as an alternative solution putting in a 
new drainage  point and it was prepared  to do that. It agreed to pay the surveyors  costs of 
£500 plus VAT on production of an invoice but thought £250 plus VAT would be more 
appropriate for a post works  visit.
We put EWICs proposed  solution to Mr T and Mr C. They  took professional advice.  Their  
surveyor didnt think this was a viable solution.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It now seems  to be accepted that further repairs are needed to the roof but the parties  cant 
agree on what those repairs should be.
The suggestion to fit a new drain  seems  to have come from the roofing manufacturer.  Its 
product manager  told EWIC:
although this is not my remit I am happy to help.  To now retrospectively fit the drain to its 
lowest point you will need to create a sump  around the outlet, this will also create back  laps 
to the existing felt, this can be alleviated by taking the newly installed felt back  to the nearest 
cross lap joint.
Its not clear that the guarantee would be reinstated if these works were  carried out.
Mr T and Mr Cs surveyor disagreed. He said:
Ref: DRN66635433To install a new drainage point, the roof coverings  will have to be taken up to this location to 
install the outlet.  Then  the brickwork parapet wall will have to be broken through  to provide a 
weir type outlet (I assuming this is their intention). This would then require  external  drainage  
to be installed that connects to the existing rainwater goods (that are not near this position).
To undertake these  works  you will have to scaffold the full height  of the property to 
provide a safe working area, you will also have to partially  dismantle the cavity  brickwork 
parapet wall so as to install  new cavity  trays  and adequate  membranes/barriers to 
manage both potential water ingress and to improve the thermal  break  through the wall 
so as to prevent  cold bridging to the flat beneath.
Additionally, you may also require  planning  to install the new rainwater goods/outlet as you 
are materially changing  the physical appearance of the property.
If they wish to install a traditional  downpipe arrangement,  this would then have to pass 
through the slab and through the flat beneath.  This is even more impractical  than the 
weir arrangement.
He concluded  that the re-covering the roof was still the most cost effective and practical way 
forward.
I find the evidence  from Mr T and Mr Cs surveyor more persuasive.  For a start it is his remit 
to advise on technical solutions.  He has also given a detailed justification  of why he doesnt 
think EWICs proposed solution is practical. 
The leaseholders of this block of flats have been  experiencing problems with the roof for 
about nine years. I think EWIC has had long enough to resolve the issue.  In order to treat 
the leaseholders fairly it should now carry out the lasting repair recommended  by their 
surveyor.
In view of the problems the leaseholders have had previously with water  damage from the 
roof I dont  think its unreasonable of them to request that the works should  be carried out in 
the Spring/Summer of 2020.
I can understand why, after the trouble theyve had with EWIC, Mr T and Mr C would prefer 
to have a guarantee of workmanship from EWICs contractor that they could make a claim 
on if they have  any problems in future. It may be that a guarantee is forthcoming. But Im not 
going to require EWIC to provide that. I expect it to carry out an effective and lasting repair.  If 
it turns out not to have  done that with the works which are planned, the leaseholders will 
have the right to bring a further complaint. However, I hope that wont  be necessary.
EWIC have agreed to pay £500 plus VAT for the surveyors original report and £250  plus 
VAT for a further inspection. I think thats reasonable - there should be less work involved 
with the final inspection. 
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint  and require  East West  Insurance  Company  Limited  to:
take up the roof covering  and relay  it with a fall that at a minimum  meets  the 
manufacturers  requirements  for the guarantee  to be valid;
Ref: DRN66635434carry  out the above  works  between  May and August  2020  so far as reasonably  
practicable;
pay Mr T and Mr C £500  plus VAT in respect  of their surveyors  report  subject  to 
them  providing  an invoice  to that effect;  and
pay Mr T and Mr C £250  plus VAT for a final surveyors  inspection.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6663543