K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs J say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres very little from the time of the sale to go on and no sales paperwork. But given how 
long ago the sale was, that isnt surprising. So the lack of information  doesnt itself make  me 
think its likely something was wrong with the sale.
Mr and Mrs J dont think Halifax explained that the PPI was optional. But I wouldnt expect 
Mr and Mrs J to vividly recall the sale or to remember  all that was discussed at that time. 
Bearing this in mind, what Mr and Mrs J have said isnt enough on its own to make me think 
Halifax didnt give them a choice  about taking the PPI. And I havent seen anything else to 
make me think Halifax didnt give them a choice. Also I havent seen anything  to make me 
think Halifax added the PPI without getting  Mr and Mrs Js agreement.
If Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J, it had to do more  and check  the PPI was 
right for them. Given the time thats passed,  its hard to say whether Halifax did recommend 
the PPI. So Ive assessed the complaint as if Halifax did give recommend it, because  that 
places on Halifax a higher level of responsibility  for the sale.
The PPI was cover to help protect  Mr and Mrs Js mortgage in case  of unemployment or 
disability. And based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time, I think  
the cover  was right for them. For example Mr J, who the cover  was on, wasnt affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover   so Mr and Mrs J couldve  claimed  the benefit 
on Mr J if the circumstances arose.
Also Mr and Mrs J seem to have had a need  for the cover. From what  theyve told us, Mr Js 
work sick pay or redundancy benefits wouldnt have lasted for as long as the twelve months 
the PPI could pay out for  and the PPI benefit wouldve been paid out on top. So the benefit  
wouldve given Mr and Mrs J more security and helped protect their savings at what  could be 
a difficult time if Mr J lost his job or was too sick to work.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I cant  say they didnt  want this type of cover  because  I havent seen 
enough to make me think they didnt choose to take it. And, for the reasons Ive given above, 
it seems like the cover would have been  useful if something went  wrong. Taking everything 
into account, I dont  think better information about  the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs J off 
taking the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Js points including what  theyve said about it not being 
mentioned that after the first year the price of the cover would go up and the value of the 
Ref: DRN69243312benefits would go down. And I understand from Mr and Mrs J that because of this they didnt 
carry on with the cover  and cancelled it. But this doesnt make  me think  that the price of the 
cover or the value  of the benefit made it unsuitable for Mr and Mrs J when they were sold it. 
Even if what Mr and Mrs J recall  about the policy cost increase is accurate, it isnt enough to 
make me think that Halifax  likely did something wrong at the sale.  And Im not persuaded 
that the possibility of a cost increase in future would likely have discouraged Mr and Mrs J 
from taking the policy  out when they did, at a time when it was apparently cheaper and with 
a more valuable  benefit.
So having  thought carefully about  all Mr and Mrs Js points,  and in the light of all Ive said 
above and for the reasons  Ive already given, Im not persuaded more or better  information  
wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Js decision to take the policy. So these points dont change 
my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6924331