K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy as he feels Calpe  Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) wrongly settled 
another drivers claim under his motor insurance  policy.
background 
In late October 2018 whilst at traffic lights Mr G said he was involved in a minor road traffic 
accident. He said any damage caused was minimal as there was only a scratch on the other 
drivers bumper. 
The next day, Calpe was told by the third party  that there had been an accident. Calpe said 
theyd tried to contact Mr G several times to get his version of the accident. Mr G didnt 
contact them  until late November 2018,  first denying any involvement  in an accident.  But 
later Mr G told them there had been a minor  incident  and sent details about it. 
But Calpe said Mr G was at fault for the accident and settled the third parties claim. They 
said Mr G had to pay £2,684.29 as this was the cost of the third party  claim and was within 
his policy  excess of £3,000. And that Mr Gs insurance policy  with Calpe  had been  
cancelled.
Mr G didnt think Calpe had done enough to investigate  the level of damage sustained  to the 
third-party vehicle. He thought the damage  was minor, so the claim costs  were unfair. As he 
remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Calpe had settled the claim in line with Mr Gs insurance policys terms 
and conditions. And as Mr G had cancelled his motor insurance with Calpe a few days after 
the accident saying hed sold the car, Calpe couldnt  inspect the car for evidence  to dispute 
the third parties  claim. So, he thought Calpe acted reasonable in asking Mr G to pay the 
£2,684.29 it had settled.
Mr G didnt agree and has asked an ombudsman to decide
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
We dont decide  who was responsible for an accident. So, in looking at Mr Gs complaint I 
need to determine whether Calpe considered all the information, and acted  fairly,  
reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy  in deciding to settle  the 
claim.
Mr Gs policy  has a £3,000 all sections  excess.  That means for any claim against  his policy, 
including for a claim from a third party, Mr G must pay an excess of up to £3,000.  In this 
case, as Calpe settled the claim for less than £3,000, they told Mr G he must pay that 
amount.
Mr G said that the damage to the other car was nothing  more than a scratch.  So, he doesnt 
think the claim should have cost so much to settle.
Ref: DRN65102572I have looked  at Mr Gs policy. It says:
To report a claim,  incident or accident  or to make  a claim
As you have a higher excess and are responsible to pay (or repay us) for this first amount  of
any incident it is vitally important and, in your interest, to report a claim,  incident or accident
(hereinafter referred to collectively as incident) immediately  and in any event within 48 hours.
Whether you believe that an incident is your fault or not, you should  report the incident to
us and allow us to mitigate the costs of the claim.
Mr G didnt report the incident to Calpe within the 48 hours, Calpe was told about the 
accident by the third party.  They  said Mr Gs car had hit their car from behind while theyd 
been stationary  at traffic  lights.  They went on to say Mr G must have been  driving  at around 
20-30 mph based  on the impact. 
I know Mr G said the incident was only a minor one, but from what  Mr G has said the other  
driver had expressed concerns at the time of the incident. And both he and Mr G had taken 
photographs. So, I think  Mr G would have been aware of the incident and should have told 
Calpe as his insurers  that hed been involved in an accident.
From when the claim was reported by the third party, I can see Calpe tried to contact Mr G 
on a number of occasions, and used  a variety of methods, telephone, email  and letter.  In 
which they outlined  the details of the accident,  the information they needed to handle the 
claim. And the consequences of not providing  the requested information. They  made clear 
that if Mr G failed to get in touch, they would  instruct  his broker to issue  a seven-day 
cancellation notice  for his policy. And that theyd be left with no choice  but to settle the 
other drivers  claim.  
On 5 November  2018, I can see Mr G cancelled his insurance with Calpe, through  his 
broker. Mr G said this was because Calpe  had said they were going to cancel his insurance 
so he wanted  to get insurance somewhere else. Mr G said hed asked someone to call on 
his behalf. They told his broker hed sold his car as they were asked to give a reason for 
wanting to cancel the insurance, and they didnt know what else to say. But this wasnt  
correct as the car hadnt been sold and was still in Mr Gs possession. 
As Mr G knew his insurance was about  to be cancelled by Calpe, I think  he would also have  
known Calpe were  handling an accident  claim for him. And what would happen with his 
claim if he didnt get in touch. Mr G did get in touch with Calpe but not until 
26 November 2018, and at first, said he didnt remember being involved in the accident.
Mr G did tell Calpe, two days  later that he did remember the incident and sent them  the 
photographs he took at the time of the accident. I can see the photographic evidence  sent to 
Calpe by both Mr G and the third party  is similar. And the accident does appear to have 
caused minimal damage. 
To help determine  the outcome of an accident  claim an insurer will often look to assess  the 
damage to their policyholders  car, as well as assessing evidence of damage to the third-
party vehicle. But I dont  think  Mr G has helped Calpe to do this. Calpe thought the car was 
no longer in Mr Gs possession, so they didnt arrange for an engineer to inspect his car to 
see if the damage, if any, was consistent with the accident. Calpe wouldnt have known the 
information given  to the broker by Mr G (even if this was by his representative) wasnt  
correct. And I cant see that Mr G let Calpe  know he was still in possession  of his car. So, I 
cant say Calpe should have inspected Mr Gs car. 
Ref: DRN65102573But Calpe should have considered the damage done to the third parties car. And I can see 
they had a report that showed the other  drivers repair costs, and that they had been verified 
and authorised by an independent motor assessor.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration at being  asked to pay what seems to him a high amount 
for a minor incident. But an independent  engineer  has confirmed the repair work was needed  
because of the damage that was caused. So, Im satisfied Calpe in authorising  the repairs  
has acted in line with Mr Gs policy terms.
As Mr G was held to be at fault for the accident and his policy has a £3,000 all sections 
excess, I dont think  Calpe has been unfair or unreasonable in asking  Mr G to pay the repair  
costs of £2684.29.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6510257