K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say Bradford and Bingley plc (B&B)  mis-sold them  the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2019, which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with 
any new evidence or comments for me to consider. So based  on my previous findings, and 
in the absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold  so Bradford and Bingley plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But as stated in my provisional decision,  Bradford and Bingley  plc has to pay back  to Mr and 
Mrs H any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the premium. I 
understand it has already done this so I dont think Bradford and Bingley plc needs  to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1999 alongside  a 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say Bradford and Bingley  plc (B&B) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61277922Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs H say they were  unaware the PPI was added to their account.  But based on the evidence 
Ive seen I think B&B made  it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out in Mr Hs name only  although I can understand why they cant  remember this. I say this 
having seen a copy  of their mortgage application from the time. In this there is a section for PPI where  
Mr and Mrs H were given three options for cover: illness, injury and unemployment; illness and injury 
only; or payment protection not required. The box for illness and injury only has been ticked and the 
amount of monthly benefit required has been entered for Mr H only  as the first applicant to the 
mortgage. The mortgage  application form has been signed by both Mr and Mrs H, so Im satisfied that 
they agreed to take out the cover for Mr H, knowing they had the option  to decline it.
B&B didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it didnt have to check if the policy  was right for 
them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs H got the information they needed to decide if PPI was 
right for them.
Its possible the information B&B gave  Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover for Mr H. And based 
on what Ive seen  of Mr Hs circumstances (as the insured  party) at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would  have been useful if 
something had gone wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put them  off taking out the cover.
Ive also seen  that the PPI was initially incorrectly set up in Mrs Hs name instead of Mr Hs name.  
B&B later recognised the error  and corrected it. Our adjudicator felt that this meant the policy  was 
mis-sold to Mrs H and that they should be refunded for the premiums they paid for the time policy was 
in Mrs Hs name  as she wasnt eligible  for PPI at the time. But I think its clear from the evidence 
that Mr H wanted the policy and was happy to pay the premiums for this cover. Ive also considered  
that I havent seen any evidence Mr and Mrs H tried to make a claim  during the time the policy was in 
Mrs Hs name,  so they havent lost out financially as a result  of the error. B&B say had they have tried 
to make a claim, it wouldve realised the error  and corrected  it - and still wouldve  allowed  Mr H to 
make a claim on the policy.
So I dont currently think the policy was mis-sold to Mr H and I dont think  Mr and Mrs H have lost out 
as a result of what B&B may have done wrong. Which means  B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. But B&B has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H 
because:
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because B&B didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, B&B has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 30 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6127792