K820x#14Complaint
Ms S says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Background
In 2003, Santander sold Ms S a monthly premium PPI policy  to protect  her mortgage 
repayments if she became unable to work  because  of disability or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms S disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms S case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from 2003,  which  isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. The sale took place over the phone  but theres no call recording or 
sales script. So Ive reached my decision on the balance of the remaining  evidence, together 
with experience of Santanders sales processes at the time. 
Ive carefully considered  Ms S arguments about not being told the PPI was optional.  And, 
while theres nothing  to conclusively show Ms S agreed to the PPI, from whats  known of 
Santanders sales processes back then, I dont  think its likely that it would have added this 
cover without getting her agreement to take it.
I believe Santander recommended  the PPI to Ms S. That meant Santander needed to take 
steps to ensure its advice was right for her. Regardless of what steps  it took, I think the PPI it 
recommended was right for her in any case.  
For example, from what Ms S has told us about her circumstances, she was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of the main things  the policy  excluded  or limited cover  for. 
I cant see that Ms S would have found the monthly premiums  unaffordable either.
It seems  as though Ms S was entitled to relatively generous sick pay from her employer. But 
the PPI benefits  were  considerable  and potentially paid out for up to 12 months for each 
successful disability and unemployment claim. Shes  also told us she had savings she could  
have used if needed, although  the PPI meant she could  have  retained  them  or used them to 
cover her other living  costs if she wasnt working.
Taking into account that Ms S had entered into a long-term financial commitment that was 
secured against  her home, I think shed have  valued the additional  protection  the PPI 
provided, and which  meant she didnt need to rely on family for help. 
Ref: DRN62877542Santander also needed to give Ms S enough  information about the PPI to allow  her to decide 
for herself  if it was right for her. I think its possible that the information  it gave  her could have 
been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think  the PPI was unsuitable  
for her, I dont think that better information would  have  changed  her decision to take it. I think 
she would  still have  thought it provided a useful benefit at an affordable  cost.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S. But 
Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Ms S about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Ms S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santanders basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said  including  what shes  said about there being 
other court cases in relation  to non-disclosure  of commission  where consumers have 
received everything  back. So she thinks Santander  should refund all of the money paid for 
the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Ms S complaint is the law. But I also need  to take into account relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where  appropriate)  what I 
consider to be good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
In this case, Santanders made Ms S an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received thats  in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Ms S wants 
Santander to do something different. 
Ive looked at the particular circumstances of Ms S and her complaint to see if theres 
anything about  her that would mean  Santander should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Ms S. 
But there isnt anything about  Ms S complaint or circumstances that suggest the redress  
offered by Santander  isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Santanders offers a fair way to resolve this case.
What the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Ms S any commission and profit share  it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. Santander should also pay back 
to Ms S any extra interest  she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Ms S the extra she paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Ms S 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms S can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN62877543My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Ms S any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6287754