complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  hasnt provided her with all the 
information its required to in response to her subject access  requests. Shes unhappy with 
the amount shes spent  when trying to obtain this information, and has raised a number of 
service issues  in relation  to this matter  too.
background
Ms A has made a number  of subject access requests (SARs). An earlier  SAR has already 
been addressed  in a previous final decision  issued  by this service. So this complaint relates 
to SARs made after that point  which appear  to date back to September  2016, as well as 
any material new information that has come to light since the decision was issued.
Barclays has admitted a number of failings in dealing with Ms As SARs. These include:
-a corrupted  electronic  file being  sent to its printers which  caused  delays  in sending 
the SAR material;
-general delays  in sending across information;
-it being likely that SARs sent by Ms A were received by Barclays  but not passed  to its
Data Privacy team;
-information not being sent across in large  print; and
-omitting personal information in error,  including  audio and complaints information.  
But it has defended its actions in relation  to a few points:
-it didnt resend information from a previous SAR as this had already been provided.
But when it found out that Ms A no longer held this information, it arranged  to resend 
this;
-while Ms A said there were name and address errors on the envelope  containing 
SAR information,  Barclays said it had addressed this correctly and asked for a copy 
of the envelope  to be sent so it could investigate further;
-it said it didnt have  evidence of receiving  around 25 photographs  and accompanying 
letters; and
-it said it hadnt received faxes  that Ms A had sent, as it didnt use fax machines any 
more. But it said the fax number still belonged to Barclays so the information wouldnt 
have been received  by anyone else.
Barclays has provided information to suggest it had fully complied with the SARs  by June
2019.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN6428524To apologise for all of the errors  relating to the SARs, Barclays offered a total of £810  which  
was to contribute towards the costs involved in postage, calls and faxes, as well as the fee 
for the SARs. This amount was also compensation for the delays caused, and the distress 
and inconvenience  of all of the errors it made.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He noted  Barclays failings in relation  to the 
SARs but felt that the total compensation paid was sufficient.  Ms A remains unhappy so the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know  it will come  as a disappointment to Ms A, Im not upholding  her complaint  Ill 
explain why.
The matters  for me to consider here are whether Barclays has done anything wrong beyond 
what its already acknowledged, and whether the compensation its offered is sufficient for 
everything thats gone wrong.
Ive thought carefully about the aspects of Ms As complaint that Barclays  has defended. And
I conclude the following:
-Barclays wasnt required to re-send information  from a previous SAR. But, once it 
was made aware Ms A no longer  had this information, it was reasonable that 
Barclays re-sent it to her on that occasion.
-I havent seen sufficient proof that Barclays made errors on the envelope when 
posting the SAR response to Ms A. I havent been given  a copy of the envelope and 
it doesnt appear that Barclays  was given this either.  But it seems  that this
information reached Ms A so I cant see that shes lost out as a result  of any potential  
errors.
-I havent seen sufficient proof of ~25 photographs (and accompanying letters) being  
sent to Barclays. So I cant fairly  say its done  anything wrong by not returning  these 
to Ms A.
-As Barclays no longer uses fax machines, I think it likely that it didnt receive the 
faxes Ms A sent. Its for Barclays to decide  whether  it wants to continue  to use fax as 
a way of communicating.  But as it still owns the numbers,  I cant see that Ms As 
information wouldve  fallen into the wrong hands,  and therefore  I dont think  its fair to 
say Barclays has done anything  wrong here.
So overall, I dont think Barclays has wrongly denied  responsibility for the above matters.
Ive thought next about the errors  Barclays made  which it accepted it made   when dealing 
with the applicable SARs.  I recognise  that these errors have caused Ms A a great  deal of 
frustration, particularly given the volume that seem to have occurred. But Ive also thought 
about whether  theres been  any financial loss here,  and the compensation that Barclays  has 
offered. Other than the cost of requesting and chasing the SARs, I cant see that this
situation has caused Ms A any financial loss. And, thinking about  the compensation thats 
been offered,  Im persuaded that £810  sufficiently covers the trouble and upset caused  by 
this matter, as well as covering any reasonable costs that Ms A has incurred.  I havent been
given substantive evidence to conclude that further  compensation should reasonably  be due.
Ref: DRN6428524my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont  uphold Ms As complaint against Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6428524