K820x#14Complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly  moved his 
overdraft to its collections department and then defaulted it in 2019.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 8 June 2021, which  forms part of this final decision. In my 
provisional decision, I set out why I was intending to uphold Mr As complaint and invited 
both parties to make any final comments ahead  of my final decision. 
Following this, Halifax confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and that it would 
put thing right for Mr A. 
Mr A also confirmed receiving my provisional decision. He said that he accepted  my 
provisional decision and he didnt provide anything further for me to think about. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties  for their responses and Im pleased to see that Halifax  has agreed to put 
things right for Mr A. I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold  Mr As complaint in my 
provisional decision. And, in the absence  of anything  further from either party,  I see no 
reason to change  my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im upholding Mr As complaint. 
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mr A.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr As complaint for Halifax to do the following:
Rework Mr As overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied  to 
it from April 2018  onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mr A to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr A along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
And
Ref: DRN60419642Backdate the default applied on Mr As credit file to April 2018.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision of 8 June 2021, Im 
upholding Mr As complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN60419643COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly  moved his 
overdraft to its collections department and then defaulted it in 2019.
Background
Mr A initially  complained to Halifax after it notified  him that it would  be changing its charging 
structure in November 2017.  Halifax wrote  back, in December 2017, saying that it was 
entitled to change its overdraft charging structure and that it provided  Mr A with the 
appropriate notice  before doing so.  
In January 2019, after Halifax once  again changed  its pricing  structure, Mr A again wrote  to 
Halifax to complain about the fees charged. At this point he also said that he wanted to close  
the account down and have a structured plan to pay off his overdraft at £100 a month. 
Halifax didnt uphold  Mr As complaint. But it moved his account  to its collections department 
and eventually issued  a formal demand for payment. As it didnt  receive payment it defaulted 
Mr As overdraft  in May 2019. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr As concerns. She didnt think  that we could look at the 
implementation of the change in charging structure  in November 2017 as Mr A hadnt  
referred his complaint within  six months  of Halifaxs final response on this matter. She also 
thought that Halifax hadnt treated Mr A unfairly  when  it defaulted  his overdraft in May 2019. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his case.   
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules,  regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional 
decision.
I accept that Mr As failure  to refer his complaint  within six months of Halifaxs         
December 2017  final response means  that I cant look at the charges  applied to the account 
before this date.  But Halifaxs  final response of December 2017  doesnt preclude me from 
looking at how the charges were applied afterwards and whether it treated Mr A fairly and 
reasonably. 
And having carefully considered everything  provided, Im intending  to find that Halifax  didnt 
act fairly when it continued charging  overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed 
Mr As overdraft  in April 2018. By this point, it ought to have  been  clear that Mr A was in no 
position to sustainably repay  what he owed  within a reasonable  period of time. 
Mr As statements  leading  up to the renewal shows he hadnt been close  to having a credit 
balance on his account for a prolonged period. Mr A had exceeded his limit and the funds 
going into the account didnt suggest the overdraft could be repaid, or that it was being  used  
for short-term emergency borrowing. Indeed, I note that this was one of the reasons Halifax  
Ref: DRN60419644provided to justify the actions in took in January 2019. In these circumstances, it ought to 
have been apparent Mr A was unlikely to be able to repay what  he owed within  a reasonable 
period with overdraft  interest, fees and associated charges continuously being added. 
So having  carefully thought about  everything, I think that Halifax  should have stopped  
providing the overdraft  on the same terms in April 2018, stopped adding fees and charges 
and instead treated Mr A with forbearance. All of this means that Halifax  should have 
realised Mr A was experiencing financial difficulty, wasnt  using his overdraft  as intended and 
shouldnt have continued offering it on the same  terms.  As Halifax  didnt react to Mr As 
overdraft usage  and instead  continued charging  in the same  way, Im intending to find that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him.
 
Mr A ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended  
up leaving  him with a larger and even more  unsustainable debt. So I think that Mr A lost out 
because of what Halifax did wrong and Im intending  to say that it should put things right.
 
Ive also considered what Mr A has said about the default applied  to his account.  However, 
for the reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied that Mr As overdraft had already 
become unsustainable for him by April 2018  and there was little prospect of him being able 
to adhere to the terms and conditions of the facility. 
So while Mr A might not have wanted Halifax to take the action it did, as a responsible  
lender, I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to have take corrective  steps   although these 
steps should have been taken sooner than they were. In these circumstances, and as I think 
that Halifax ought to have  taken the action it did, or similar equivalent steps,  in April 2018, 
Im intending  to say that it should  backdate the default it recorded on Mr As credit file to  
April 2018.   
Fair compensation  what  Im intending to say that Halifax needs to do to put things 
right for Mr A.
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision which  says that it 
would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mr As complaint for Halifax to do 
the following:
Rework Mr As overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied  to 
it from April 2018  onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mr A to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr A along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
And
Ref: DRN60419645Backdate the default applied on Mr As credit file to April 2018.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold Mr As complaint and tell Bank  of 
Scotland plc to put things  right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 22 June 2021  changes my mind, thats what 
Ill tell Halifax to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6041964