K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
with a credit  card. She says she didnt need  PPI because she had a job with good benefits 
already included.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
However Mrs H has already received some money back for the commission Barclays 
received from selling her the PPI. However, she still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the 
first place and disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
These events took place  a considerable time ago and I certainly  dont doubt Mrs Hs 
recollections about being mis-sold the PPI are genuinely and honestly held. Records show  
that she actually  applied for her credit card through the post in 1999. It seems  the PPI was 
then added in a subsequent phone call in November 2003. 
We know quite a bit about these types of sale because weve see some  very similar ones. 
And we know, for example, that Barclays telephone  advisers typically followed  a script 
during these calls at the time. We have copies  of these which do show  that the PPI was 
only meant to be added after the permission  of the consumer was properly obtained. 
After over 15 years, we no longer have a recording of the actual call, but given what the 
script says, I think its more likely Mrs H agreed  to the policy.
I also think Mrs H would  have known that she didnt need to have PPI with her card, 
because shed been operating it without PPI for around 4 years. Mrs Hs credit  card 
statements would also have showed  the PPI being regularly charged on her account after 
the 2003 call. In my experience, these costs were  described on the statements as Payment 
Protection Plan. So I think if Mrs H hadnt ever agreed to the policy, she would  have 
wanted to know  why these charges had started to occur.  
Barclays concedes that it probably recommended the PPI to Mrs H during the call. This 
means it had an additional duty to ensure this type of cover was suitable  for her. Overall,  I 
think it probably was.
This is because Ive looked at Mrs Hs situation.  I think she was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  The PPI policy  
would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed 
Ref: DRN67461962needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition to any other  means she had at that time.  I 
also see that the cost was around  79p for every £100 outstanding on the card,  which I think 
would have been affordable for her.
So I think this policy was suitable for her.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mrs H 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. We 
simply dont have that information now.  However, I do think Mrs H would have  probably  been 
given some written and verbal information  about  the policy.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H but I think the evidence shows she most likely chose the policy  
and would have  known it wasnt something  she needed to have. This means Im not 
upholding her mis-sale complaint.
Barclays has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Mrs H about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair.  To put that right,  it has already paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays  Bank Plc has already paid her for the commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6746196