K820x#14complaint
Miss R says Provident Personal  Credit Limited, (trading as Satsuma), irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
The background to this complaint, together with my provisional findings, was set out in my 
provisional decision of 4 November 2019, an extract of which  is appended to and forms part 
of this final decision.
Satsuma didnt comment or send us any further information in response to my provisional 
decision. However Miss R disagreed with it saying  that it was not a one-off loan and that 
Satsuma had accepted her for a lot of loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Following receipt of Miss Rs response to my provisional decision we requested  Satsuma to 
check its records to see if it could find any other loans it made to Miss R. It has confirmed to 
us that it has been unable  to find any. Nor has Miss R given us any details about her other  
loans with Satsuma.  So I consider that it is fair and reasonable to make my final decision 
based on Satsuma  having only made the one loan about which  we have information.
As Miss R hasnt made  any other  material points  on my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my decision is that I do not 
uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.  
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64203392Extract of provisional decision dated  4 November 2019
background
This complaint is about  an instalment loan Satsuma provided to Miss R in 2018.  
The loan was for £880  and provided for 12 monthly equal repayments of about  £146.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Rs complaint  and thought the loan shouldnt have been given.  Satsuma 
disagreed and the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Miss R could repay  the loan 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Satsuma  was required to establish whether 
Miss R could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Rs complaint.
Satsuma has told us that it asked Miss R for details of her income and outgoings. As this loan was 
granted at the beginning of Miss Rs borrowing  relationship with Satsuma I think  that was a 
proportionate check. And, in particular, in the circumstances of this loan, I dont think that it would 
have been proportionate to expect  Satsuma  to check what Miss R had told it. 
Ref: DRN64203393In spite  of this, Satsuma has told us that, when considering applications  for loans, it performed  checks 
with credit agencies and carried  out affordability assessments using the applicants declared values 
alongside modelled  data and external data for both income and expenditure. And then it would take 
the most conservative view on whether  a loan was affordable or not. In calculating what  Miss R could 
afford, although she said she had none, it assumed that she had financial commitments of almost 
£500 a month.  And it increased  four-fold the amount Miss R said she incurred on expenses, other 
than her housing costs. Having  done this, its calculations  showed that Miss Rs monthly income would 
have exceeded her outgoings, including  the monthly loan repayment, by about £70. 
In the circumstances of this particular case, including  that it was a one-off  loan between Satsuma and 
Miss R, I think  that the adjustments  made to Miss Rs declared expenses  were  fair and reasonable.  
And therefore, bearing in mind the excess of income over expenditure  to which  Ive referred above, 
that it was reasonable for Satsuma to consider that Miss R should  be able to sustainably repay  the 
loan. Accordingly I provisionally find that Satsuma hasnt done anything  wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that Im not going to uphold Miss Rs 
complaint. 
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6420339