K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited didnt provide him with the information he 
needed to make an informed decision regarding a change to his conditional sale agreement. 
He says he has been financially disadvantaged due to the actions taken. 
background
Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in 2017 to acquire a vehicle. 
Following acquisition he was made  redundant and fell behind  with his payments. He says he 
was unable to make up the missed payments and Moneybarn offered  him a change to his 
agreement. He says he was told this would mean  that if he didnt make his agreed payments 
then the vehicle would be taken back without  having  to go through  court  proceedings. He 
agreed as he thought  he would be able to make  his payments. 
However Mr M wasnt able to make the payments so he requested to voluntarily surrender 
the vehicle. He says that he was told he would be liable for the full five year term balance  
less the amount already  paid and sale proceeds. He says that when he explained he only 
had the vehicle for 18 months he was told the reason he owed the full amount was due to 
the change in his agreement. He says he was not told about  this when he agreed  to the 
change and had been he would have returned the vehicle at that time. 
Following his complaint,  Mr M says that he has only received  two letters  one saying he could 
refer his case to this service. He says he has emailed Moneybarn since but not heard back 
Moneybarn says that Mr M fell behind  with his payments and after attempts to contact him 
had been unsuccessful a default notice was issued on 17 January 2018.  It says further 
attempts were made to contact Mr M but as no response had been  received by the required 
date his agreement  was terminated  on 7 February 2018.
On 8 February, contact  was made  with Mr M and the option of him retaining the vehicle 
though a consent order was discussed.  After confirmation of Mr Ms employment and salary 
this option was submitted to the courts. A consent order was put in place in which Mr M 
agreed to make certain  scheduled  payments. 
In August  2018,  Moneybarn says the Mr M contacted it to say he couldnt  afford  to make the 
required payments  and he wished to voluntarily  terminate  his agreement. However  it says 
that as the agreement had been  terminated  by this time this wasnt  an option. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that the agreement  had been 
terminated in February  2018 and so Mr M no longer had the right to voluntary termination.  
She said that the information provided to Mr M was correct and didnt think  Moneybarn had 
treated him unfairly.
Mr M didnt  accept our adjudicators view. He said that the consent order  didnt supersede  
the conditions  of the original agreement.  He said that he only accepted the consent order  
because he was told that the only change  would be the vehicle could be recovered without 
further court action  if the agreed payments werent made. He said he wasnt  told he would  
be liable  for interest  for the full term of the agreement.
Mr M also said that he had numerous charges added to his account after collection which  he 
had tried to avoid by offering to drop the vehicle off. He says he was told the vehicle would 
Ref: DRN61365602be collected free of charge but charges were then applied. He said this issue hadnt been  
addressed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has said that he was offered a voluntary change to his agreement but not provided with 
full information  at this time and so agreed to this without understanding the consequences.  
Having looked  through the evidence provided, Mr M wasnt offered a change  to his 
agreement but instead a consent order was put in place. 
Mr M had not been able to maintain his payments under his agreement and following 
attempts at contact  a default notice  was issued in January  2018.  Given the arrears on his 
account and that Moneybarn  hadnt  been able to discuss this situation with Mr M I dont find 
it unreasonable that this action was taken.  
The default  notice  set out what  Mr M needed  to do and what  would happen  if he didnt make 
the required payment.  The payment wasnt made and so his agreement  was terminated. 
Mr M was sent a termination notice on 7 February  explaining the situation and saying that 
the vehicle needed to be returned. 
Had Mr M been in contact with Moneybarn before the agreement was terminated then he 
would have been able to discuss his options  at that time. Given Mr Ms situation we would 
have expected Moneybarn to treat him positively and sympathetically. However, as contact 
hadnt been made I find it reasonable  that Moneybarn took the actions it did and Mr Ms 
agreement was terminated.
As Mr Ms agreement had been terminated  it would normally be expected that the vehicle 
would be collected  and sold. However, in this case it was agreed  that Mr M could keep the 
vehicle and a consent order was put in place to allow for this. I have listened to calls that 
took place in February 2018 in which Mr M agrees to the consent  order and pays  the amount 
due for this action to commence. 
I cannot comment on the details of the consent  order but I can consider whether Moneybarn  
treated Mr M fairly at the time this was being put in place and whether he was given the 
information he needed. 
Based on the evidence  I have received I find it reasonable to accept  that Mr M did want  to 
enter into the consent order  so that he could  continue  to use the vehicle. Had he not entered  
into this he would have  been required to return the vehicle. He would not have had the 
option to voluntarily terminate the agreement as the agreement had already been 
terminated. Therefore  he would  have voluntarily surrendered the vehicle and would have  
been liable  for the outstanding balance on his agreement less any sales proceeds.  This is 
the same  situation  he was in following his decision to return the vehicle after entering into 
the consent order.
Mr Ms complaint is that he is now liable  for the full amount of interest on the agreement 
even though he no longer  has the vehicle. I think it helpful to clarify Mr Ms situation. It is 
correct that Mr M is liable for the full amount  outstanding less the sales  proceeds and that 
this can be repaid monthly until such time as the balance has been  cleared. This is because 
Ref: DRN61365603although he no longer has the vehicle the finance hasnt been settled. If Mr M chooses  to 
settle the finance agreement early he could request an early  settlement figure from 
Moneybarn and this would provide him with the amount he would  need  to pay to settle the 
account. This amount would include an interest  rebate calculated in line with the early  
settlement regulations. 
Mr M also says he was charged for the recovery of the vehicle when he was told this would  
be free of charge. I have looked at the statement  of account and cant  see any charges for 
the recovery of the vehicle  when  this took place  in September 2018. There  is a charge for a 
recovery agent in February 2018. I have asked about this charge  and Moneybarn  has 
confirmed that this was charged as agents had already been instructed  at that time but the 
recovery didnt then take place due to the consent order being agreed. I note that the issue  
of agents being instructed and then put on hold was mentioned to Mr M on a call at that time 
and that this amount was included in the consent order. .
Overall, while  I understand Mr Ms concerns, I do not find that Moneybarn has done anything 
wrong in regard to his account. Therefore I do not uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6136560