K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the administration of his reviewable whole of life policy   applied  for 
along with Critical  Illness  Cover (CIC), Total and Permanent Disability  (TPD)  and Waiver of 
Premiums (WOP)  by Wesleyan Assurance  Society.   
background
In my provisional decision of 16 May 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to uphold  the complaint.  In summary, I said 
Wesleyan should:   
Pay Mr D the claim,  less the cost of the premiums hed have paid, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date it wouldve  paid this, to the date of settlement. 
Pay £250 compensation for trouble and upset. 
I said in the circumstances, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im 
minded to say that Wesleyan should  honour the claim on the basis of OMW  providing  cover 
 subject to it being  satisfied that Mr D suffered from total and permanent disability. It doesnt 
look like Wesleyan is disputing this criteria,  but if they are I think  its the subject of a different 
complaint.   
Im conscious that its underwriters are unlikely to provide  cover, but its underwriters werent 
the original underwriters, so I dont think this should disadvantage Mr Ds claim. 
Wesleyan hasnt responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr D has responded and accepts my provisional decision. However in short, he says hes 
unhappy about Wesleyan refusing to honour  my decision and feels  its responsible.  Hes 
also unhappy about the deduction of premiums and says section 17.2 of the terms suggest 
that after a valid claim the policy will terminate and no other benefit will be payable  so, any 
premiums paid since that time should be refunded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the new submissions, Im going to uphold  this complaint. 
I said Wesleyan should pay Mr D the claim, less the cost of the premiums  hed have  paid, 
plus 8% simple interest from the date it wouldve paid this, to the date of settlement. 
I still think this is the correct redress. However, Im sorry if it wasnt clear that a deduction of 
premiums should mean to the point of claim.  
I note Mr D suggests according to section  17.2 the policy  would have ceased from the point 
of the claim,  so  unless there were other  additional benefits that Mr D was still paying for, 
which I believe he was he should be refunded  the additional premiums paid with interest 
from the date of claim onwards. 
Ref: DRN64417952Im aware of other points made by Mr D but I dont think theyre relevant to this specific 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold this complaint. 
Wesleyan Assurance  Society should:
Pay Mr D the claim,  less the cost of the premiums hed have paid up to the point of 
claim, plus 8% simple interest from the date it wouldve paid this, to the date of 
settlement. 
Refund the premiums  paid from the point of claim, with 8% simple interest, providing 
there were no further benefits Mr D was paying for.    
Pay £250 compensation for trouble and upset. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64417953COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr D complains about the administration of his reviewable whole of life policy  applied for along with 
Critical Illness Cover  (CIC), Total and Permanent Disability (TPD) and Waiver  of Premiums  (WOP)  
by BMA  services, a predecessor business of Wesleyan Assurance Society.    
background
In my provisional decision of 09 April 2019, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this, my final 
decision, I said I was minded to uphold  the complaint. In summary, I said Wesleyan should:  
Clarify through its underwriters the terms and conditions under  which it was likely to have 
provided the TPD and WOP following the 18 month review.
Process Mr Ds TPD claim under  these  conditions. 
If in processing  Mr Ds claim  as above, it is successful,  it should  pay him the sum assured,  
less the cost of the premiums hed have paid, plus 8% simple interest from the date it 
wouldve paid this, to the date of settlement. 
Pay £250  compensation  for trouble  and upset. 
Wesleyan responded and said the following:
It has confirmed with one of our investigators that Old Mutual  Wealth  (OMW) should be able 
to confirm the above  three points but it has previously refused  to do so  raising  questions  of 
enforceability.   
Having then been  instructed to ask its own underwriters to review the plan, it has confirmed 
that health  exclusions  would have  applied and so no claim wouldve been paid out given Mr 
Ds circumstances.  
It queries what the best way forward is, and if our instructions are enforceable itll be happy to 
contact OMW.
Mr D has also responded, and whilst  hes pleased the complaint has been upheld he makes the 
following observations:
Wesleyan were  never the provider,  this was BMA services. This is not a claim against 
Wesleyan but a servicing complaint against BMA Services.  
Wesleyan purchased  BMA  Services and took on the advice liability in other words Wesleyan 
in purchasing  BMA  Services inherited their liabilities and responsibilities. 
He has attached  an article in which  Wesleyans purchase  of the IFA firm was clearly 
explained by its Chief Executive.  
Wesleyans complaints  specialist proposed Mr D provide  Old Mutual with his medical records 
which he did.  
A previous adjudicator  was of the opinion that the claim under  TOP/WOP  wouldve been  
valid. Shes likely to have considered the weight  of medical evidence and specialist  opinion 
provided. 
Mr D has complied at all times during this process  with Wesleyans suggestions. However,  he 
doesnt understand that from a servicing complaint perspective that Wesleyan underwriters  
have the opportunity  to influence the outcome. The actions of other service providers have 
made clear that cover and claims would and are successful. 
Its underwriters  shouldnt have an influence  on the final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN64417954Having done so, including  all the responses to my provisional decision, Im going to uphold this 
complaint. 
At the outset I should  clarify that when I said Wesleyan should clarify  through its underwriters  I did 
mean OMW. 
Wesleyan quite  rightly  raises  an interesting point about the enforcement of the decision against 
OMW.  In short, I dont think OMW can under the auspices of this complaint   made only against  
Wesleyan  be required to provide the requested information  if its unwilling  to do so.   
That said, I dont think its pivotal in the wider scheme of things because  OMW had already confirmed 
in correspondence  that it would have covered  Mr D  even though it hasnt had the courtesy to 
confirm whether or not exclusions wouldve applied  that might have an impact  on Mr Ds claim. 
I was only asking, in fairness to Wesleyan, that it should confirm  the position  with the original 
underwriters.
In the circumstances,  on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im minded to say that 
Wesleyan should honour the claim  on the basis of OMW providing cover  subject to it being satisfied 
that Mr D suffered from total and permanent disability.  It doesnt look like Wesleyan is disputing this 
criteria, but if they are I think its the subject of a different complaint.   
Im conscious  that its underwriters are unlikely to provide  cover, but its underwriters werent  the 
original underwriters, so I dont think this should  disadvantage  Mr Ds claim. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint.  
Wesleyan Assurance  Society should:
Pay Mr D the claim, less the cost of the premiums hed have paid, plus 8% simple interest 
from the date it wouldve  paid this, to the date of settlement. 
Pay £250  compensation  for trouble  and upset. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6441795