K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading  as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to him. 
He wants a refund of the interest he paid and references removed from his credit file.
background
This complaint is about 11 payday  loans  Quick Quid provided to Mr H between  February  
2012 and July 2013. Quick Quid objected to us looking at the first loan due to the time 
passed since it was taken. Mr H was happy  for us to not consider this loan. Mr H borrowed 
continuously from Quick  Quid  and there  were no significant gaps in his borrowing from loan 
2 through to loan 11. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint and thought  the loans from loan 6 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Quick Quid disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Like the adjudicator,  Ive not considered loan 1. I have looked into loans 2 to 11.
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN68099232I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Quick Quids  lending history  with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Quick Quid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
By loan 6 Mr H had been borrowing  continuously and in quick succession from Quick 
Quid. Mr H had requested 6 loans within a 6 month period.
When Mr H asked for loan 6, he was provided  with a new loan within  days  of settling 
a previous one. He had by this stage  been  frequently topping up his loans. So Quick 
Quid ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr H was having  to borrow 
further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances.
Mr H wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Quick  Quid.  Loan  11 
was taken out 17 months after Mr Hs first. And the amounts he tended to borrow 
didnt decrease  substantially. Mr H had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect,  
service a debt to Quick  Quid  over an extended  period.
I think that Mr H lost out because Quick  Quid continued to provide borrowing  from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and top ups was likely to have had negative  implications 
on Mr Hs ability  to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint about  loans  6 to 11 and Quick  Quid should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
Ref: DRN68099233refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 6 to 11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
take off any negative information  recorded  regarding loan 6 on Mr Hs credit  file.
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 7 to 11 should be removed from   
Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Mr H has an outstanding balance on his final loan to QuickQuid. This debt has now been 
sold to a third party  debt collection company. I dont know  whether Mr H has repaid any of 
this debt to the debt collection  company. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr H shouldnt repay the principal he borrowed 
from the lender.  So it seems reasonable that if Mr H still owes  some of the capital he 
borrowed that the refund due to him should  be used  to reduce that debt. But to do so 
CashEuroNet must  first take the debt back  into its own books and reduce it to reflect just the 
capital that Mr H borrowed. If CashEuroNet is unable, or unwilling, to do this it must ensure 
that its interest and charges, and any other interest and charges added  by the debt collection 
company, are refunded to Mr H so he can choose  whether to use the compensation to settle  
his debt directly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) should pay Mr H compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6809923