K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc were  unable  to provide home insurance cover 
for his new property but wouldnt tell him why.
background
Mr K has home insurance with AXA which he originally took out in 2014 and has renewed 
each year. In November  2018 he contacted AXA to advise that he was moving  house. AXA 
told Mr K that it would be unable to provide  cover  for the new address. Mr K was unhappy 
with this and complained  to AXA.
AXA explained that is would be unable to provide cover for the new address due to its 
eligibility criteria  which  dictates the level of risk is takes. AXA said this is commercially 
sensitive which means its not able to provide a specific reason why the new address doesnt 
meet the criteria.  However, AXA said as the insurance hadnt been declined  or declared 
void, Mr K wont have  to declare that he has had insurance cancelled to other insurers. AXA 
also said it would provide a pro rata refund of the premium for the year.
Mr K was unhappy with this response as he said it wasnt fair that AXA wouldnt give him a 
specific reason why it wouldnt provide cover for his new address. He made a complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  uphold  Mr Ks complaint.  He thought 
AXA had provided  him with sufficient information  to show how it applies the insurers  criteria 
and based on this was satisfied that it had treated Mr K fairly. 
Mr K didnt agree with our investigator  as he still didnt think  it was fair that AXA wouldnt tell 
him why it couldnt provide insurance for his new house. He asked for the complaint to be 
looked at by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has said it is unable to insure Mr Ks new property, as the address doesnt  meet  its 
eligibility criteria. I can see in the policy terms it says that the policyholder  should notify AXA 
as soon as possible  if they change their address. It goes on to say: If you do notify us of any 
of the above changes and you are no longer eligible for this policy  we may cancel your policy 
at any time by giving  you 21 days' notice in writing  to your current  address. So I can see 
AXA does have the right to cancel a policy if a change in circumstances means  the 
policyholder is no longer  eligible, as long as it gives sufficient notice. 
 
Mr K says that it isnt fair that AXA wont disclose the reason why it is unable  to provide 
cover for his new property. AXA has told us that this information is commercially sensitive 
and it wouldnt share it with its customers.  It isnt the place of this service  to force AXA to 
disclose this information. However  I need  to consider if it has treated  Mr K fairly  in the 
circumstances.
AXA has said that it has a set of criteria that dictates  the level of risk it will take when 
insuring a property. This is based  on a number of factors that affect the probability  that a 
Ref: DRN66767572claim will be made and therefore the perceived risk of insuring that property. It is then up to 
AXA to decide  the level of risk it takes  on. This is normal practise for insurers and is why it 
will require policyholders  to notify  them of any changes,  to ensure they are still eligible for 
the same  policy  at the same price. Mr K advised  AXA that he was moving  house.  This is a 
significant change  to his circumstances as it changes the asset that is insured. It is therefore  
understandable that AXA would need  to make a re-assessment, as the level of risk would 
inevitably be different  from the asset that it originally  agreed to insure. 
AXA has provided me with the process  it followed when assessing  the change  of address. I 
have considered the information provided  and I am satisfied that AXA considered Mr Ks 
case in line with its eligibility criteria. AXA has demonstrated that it treated Mr K in the same  
way it would consider  any application  for insurance for the property. When  AXA were 
informed of the change,  it informed Mr K straight away that it wouldnt be able to offer cover 
for that address. Mr K then called up around  two weeks later to cancel the policy  and AXA 
provided a pro-rata  refund. I therefore  cant say that AXA has treated Mr K unfairly.
For these reasons, I dont  think  AXA has acted unfairly while handling  Mr Ks notification  of 
his change of circumstances. I appreciate how frustrating it would be for Mr K to not be 
provided with a reason why AXA wont provide cover for his new property. However AXA has 
explained that its eligibility criteria  is confidential due to being  commercially sensitive. It has 
also acted in line with their terms and conditions. I therefore cant  say AXA has acted unfairly 
and I therefore  wont require it to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. I therefore wont  require  AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6676757