K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1988. Mr and Mrs M says Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs M say they thought the PPI was compulsory. Halifax say it would have made  it 
clear to Mr and Mrs M there was a choice in taking  PPI  and it would have got their consent 
before adding the cover. Where theres a dispute  about what  happened, I have to base my 
decision on what I think is most  likely  to have  happened,  taking into account all the evidence  
thats available.
Given this PPI was sold in 1988, neither party has been able to give me any information from 
the sale  but this isnt surprising or unusual. But it does make it difficult for me to 
understand what happened when  this policy was sold.
For me to be able to agree with what Mr and Mrs M have said about the sale,  I have to think  
it more likely that someone at Halifax deliberately didnt give Mr and Mrs M a choice in 
buying the cover - or added it without them knowing about it. And although I agree both of 
these things are possible,  I dont  think  theyre  more likely.
So without further information to support what Mr and Mrs M have said, I cant fairly say that 
Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs M a choice  in buying PPI  and I think  it more likely agreed  to 
buy it.
Hal
Halifax say it would  have  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  it likely  they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think  better information about  the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M has said but these points dont change my 
decision.
Ref: DRN69873032my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6987303