K820x#14complaint
Miss A is complaining that HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the full cost of a holiday 
that she paid for with her HSBC credit  card.  Her claim  was made against HSBC under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (S75). 
background
Miss A bought  an all-inclusive holiday abroad  through a holiday provider  who I shall call S. 
She paid for it with her HSBC credit  card. She was unhappy with the quality of the hotel. And 
in particular she highlighted  the following things:
It was advertised as a four star hotel, but she says the accommodation wasnt  of the 
standard one would expect of a four star hotel;
There were  some  facilities  that were advertised that werent  available to her;
There was mould  on the room  wall;
The food was of a poor quality and wasnt maintained well. In particular she highlighted 
that the salads  were  regularly left out for the entire  three hour lunch service and werent 
refrigerated. She also said the catering staff were  unhygienic  and would touch food 
without gloves. She said both she and her daughter got food poisoning as a result  of this;
They werent given  a mini-bar, despite the hotel being advertised as having one;
The bed linen  was only changed once;
Ss website said that she didnt  have to pay local tax for her daughter  as she was under 
12 years  of age, but was required to do so.
Miss A says that she complained to the hotel  at the time,  but she says she didnt get a 
response until the fifth day of the holiday,  which she says was unsatisfactory. She raised  a 
formal complaint to S about  the above  and she said that she wanted  a full refund  of what  she 
paid. S responded to say that it was willing to refund £110.12 which  was for the amount  that 
Miss A paid for her daughters tax and the fact that she didnt  have a mini-bar. But it didnt 
think there were any other breaches of contract.
Miss A then contacted HSBC to raise a chargeback on her credit  card asking for a full refund 
of the amount she paid for the holiday. HSBC  sent her some  forms to fill out for this, which 
she did and returned  them  together with some supporting  documentation.  HSBC responded 
to say that it shouldnt  have  said she could  raise a chargeback as shed been  on the holiday. 
But it would look into whether she could claim for a breach of contract under S75. Miss A 
was unhappy  that HSBC  initially said she could  raise a chargeback, but had then 
backtracked on that.
HSBC then contacted Miss A again a couple of days later because it said the hotel was 
booked through  a different company. So it said that there wasnt  a debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) relationship as is required to be able to make a S75 claim.  Miss A complained  to 
HSBC again who re-reviewed the claim. It then said that it shouldnt have said that she 
couldnt claim under S75 as it was satisfied  that there was in fact a DCS relationship.  But it 
said that Miss A wasnt entitled to a full refund as shed had use of the holiday. It also said 
that a number of the things Miss A was unhappy about wouldnt be considered a breach of 
contract. So it offered to refund £250. It also offered  her £50 in compensation for its initial  
mis-communication.
Miss A still thought  she was entitled to a full refund of the holiday, so she asked this service  
to look at her complaint.  Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold  it. She 
Ref: DRN63241442didnt think that there  was any misrepresentation here. But she thought there were definite 
issues looking at the photographs and taking account of Miss As overall holiday experience.
The investigator said that the holiday package  included  flights but didnt give a breakdown  of 
the cost of each  part of the package individually. But she thought that overall HSBCs offer of 
£250 was fair and reasonable.
Miss A didnt agree with the investigator  and she said that other people whod been on the 
holiday had received a full refund. So she maintained that she should receive a full refund.  
And she asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, S75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier 
of goods or services  or the provider of credit  if theres been  a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. My role is to assess whether HSBC  has handled Miss As 
S75 claim  fairly and reasonably.
Miss A says that S misrepresented the quality of the hotel.  And she says that there  were  
also a number of things that werent  provided  that would constitute  breaches of the contract.
Ive taken into account Miss As comments that S misrepresented the holiday. But I havent 
seen enough to show that it did. She says that it was advertised as a four star hotel, but she 
says the accommodation wasnt of the standard one would expect of a four star hotel. 
However, while I accept that the condition of the hotel may not have been what Miss A 
expected, I havent seen  enough to say the hotel itself was of less than four star quality.
Miss A says that there were some facilities that were advertised that werent available to her. 
But, other than not having  access to a minibar, Miss A hasnt given me anything to show 
this. She says that the spa was in a different hotel, but I havent seen anything  to show that 
she didnt have access to it. And, from what Ive seen,  S didnt say that it was in the part of 
the hotel she was staying in. 
Miss A also raised a dispute with the holiday provider who refunded £110.12 which  was for 
the amount that she paid for her daughters tax and the fact that she didnt have  a mini-bar 
because it accepted that Miss A was given misleading information  in respect to this. 
Because of these  issues Im satisfied that Miss A had already been fairly compensated for 
any possible  mis-description in this respect. So I dont think HSBC needed to do anything 
further in respect  to this.
That said,  its clear that the Miss As holiday didnt meet  her expectations   in particular the 
condition of her room, food and general  condition of the hotel. Legislation implied  a term into 
Miss As contract with S that it had to provide  the service with reasonable skill and care  
and this responsibility extended  to the hotel provider. I think the photographs  Ive seen show 
there was rubbish strewn everywhere and there was mould on the walls  in the bedrooms. Im 
also persuaded by what  Miss A has told us about the care of the food on display.  So it 
seems to me that the standard may not have been up to what  was suggested  and what  I 
think it reasonable to expect for a four star (or even lower) hotel. And I think this would be 
considered a breach of contract.
Ref: DRN63241443HSBC reviewed Miss As S75 claim and offered to refund a further  £250  (in addition to what 
S had already refunded) as it was satisfied  that she didnt receive the holiday she expected, 
given the concerns she raised. But it didnt think she was entitled to a full refund. It also paid 
her £50 for mistakes it had made  in handling  her claim.
I understand Miss As unhappiness about  what happened on the holiday, but I dont  think a 
full refund is justified  in the circumstances of this particular case.  She  did have the benefit of 
most of the elements  of her all-inclusive package  including the flights, drinks etc. And, 
coupled with the compensation S has offered,  I think  HSBCs offer to refund a further £300 is 
fair. So Im satisfied that HSBC has handled Miss As S75 claim fairly,  albeit with some 
miscommunication which I feel it has adequately compensated Miss A for.
I note that Miss A has said others  on the trip have been refunded  in full when they made a 
claim. But Im not looking at those claims and am looking here at how HSBC  responded to 
Miss As claim. And as I have set out, I think HSBC has handled  Miss As S75 claim fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Im satisfied  that HSBC UK Bank  Plcs offer to pay £250 
to settle Miss As S75 claim is fair and £50 for mistakes it made in handling her claim is fair. I 
understand HSBC  has already paid this to Miss A. So I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6324144