K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that PDL Finance  Limited  trading as Mr Lender lent her money  that she 
couldnt afford to repay. She wants a refund of interest and charges applied to the loans.
background
Miss C took out three loans with Mr Lender between October  2016 and March  2017. A 
summary of the loans  are below:
No. loan
Date of 
LoanAmount borrowed
Number of 
instalments Highest monthly 
repaymentDate repaid
1 28/10/2016 £500 3 £279 26/01/2017
2 27/01/2017 £750 6 £287 06/03/2017
3 16/03/2017 £350 5 £182 Not repaid
Miss C says that she was in a tricky financial situation due to various personal problems. 
Miss C says that these  difficulties led her and her partner to borrow money  from different 
payday lenders.  Miss C says that she got in to arrears  with various creditors as a result.
Before this service became involved, Mr Lender offered to recall  and then write  off the 
outstanding balance on the final loan.
Mr Lender recorded  Miss Cs net monthly  income to be £3,000 with monthly outgoings  of 
around £2,000.  Mr Lender carried out a credit  check each time which didnt reveal  any 
defaults within the previous three  years.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Cs complaint be upheld.  He thought that 
Mr Lender carried out adequate  checks before agreeing  to lend each time. The adjudicator 
thought that based on the information Mr Lender held about Miss C, it was reasonable to 
agree to lend.
Miss C disagrees with the adjudicators  recommendation. Miss C says that although  she 
agrees that Mr Lender asked about her income and took details of her employer before 
agreeing loan one, it didnt do this again  before loans two and three.  Miss C says that her 
circumstances had changed by that point.
Miss C says that although it appeared that she had £1,000  of monthly  disposable income, 
shed taken out a large  number of loans with different lenders which took up all her money  
leaving her with nothing  to live on.
Miss C explains  that her partner was severely ill and unable to work. Miss C says she talked 
about this with Mr Lender. Miss C says that she took out the loans from Mr Lender in quick  
succession. She thinks that this together with her credit file indicated  a reliance on short  term 
lending.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
Ref: DRN69501312Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to carry out checks  to make  sure      
Miss C could afford to repay the loans before it lent to her. These  checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount borrowed, the repayments and any lending 
history. But there wasnt a set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
loan one
Miss C hadnt borrowed  from Mr Lender before so there wasnt any lending  history to 
consider. 
The maximum monthly repayments on loan one represented a fairly small proportion  of  
Miss Cs declared income. I think  it wouldve  been  reasonable  of Mr Lender to agree to lend 
based on her income alone. 
Mr Lender went  further than this and asked Miss C to give it details of her monthly expenses. 
It also carried out a credit check. The check  didnt  show any defaults. I think that it was 
reasonable of Mr Lender to have a degree of confidence that the information that Miss C 
gave about her income and outgoings was correct.
Im satisfied that Mr Lenders  checks went far enough before agreeing loan one. I cant say 
that it was wrong  to agree to the loan.
loans two and three
Miss C took out loan two immediately on repaying loan one and she asked to borrow more  
than twice the amount. But for loan three,  Miss C asked to borrow  less than half the amount  
of loan two. 
I dont think that for either of these  loans, Mr Lender missed any obvious signs of a 
dependency on short  term lending. This means  I dont  think  it was reasonable to expect Mr 
Lender to ask Miss C specifically about her other short term lending commitments.
I think that a proportionate  check for loans two and three shouldve  involved Mr Lender  
asking Miss C about her income and outgoings,  including living costs and regular credit 
commitments. 
Miss C says that Mr Lender didnt  ask about  her circumstances  before agreeing  loans two 
and three.  I appreciate  that given the time that has passed Miss C might not recall Mr Lender 
asking her for these  details but from the evidence Ive been  given, Im satisfied that Mr 
Lender carried out similar checks for all the loans.
Mr Lender has given  us copies of the loan application dialogue notes for each loan. The 
notes for loan two say that Miss C had a disposable  income of about  £1,037.  And that she 
needed the loan due to a credit card fraud  that had meant shed had double  the amount of 
bills to pay. 
Ive also listened  to the call recording where Miss C discussed her monthly  outgoings with 
Mr Lender. During  this call, Mr Lender  asks Miss C to confirm her employment details by 
asking for a work email.
Ive listened to the call recording from when Miss C applied for loan three. Miss C gives  Mr 
Lender details  of her expenditure and the call handler asks Miss C why she is applying for 
Ref: DRN69501313the loan. Miss C says that shes had problems buying a house  that has left her with less 
money that month.  From  the information that Miss C gave to Mr Lender, it appeared that she 
had a disposable income of £1,000.  
It looked as though Miss C could afford the repayments for both loans from her disposable 
income. I cant say that it was unreasonable of Mr Lender to agree loans two and three.
Although Miss C says she made Mr Lender aware  of her partners health problems, I cant  
see any mention of this in Mr Lenders records or during the calls that Ive listened to. As I 
cant be sure that Miss C told Mr Lender  about  the difficulties she was facing before it agreed 
any of the loans, I cant say that Mr Lender shouldve taken this information into account  
when deciding whether to lend.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr Lender  carried out adequate checks each  time.  Based on the 
results, it looked as though Miss C could afford to repay all three loans. I understand that 
Miss Cs financial situation was worse than she told Mr Lender.  But I wouldnt have expected 
proportionate checks to have revealed this.
Mr Lender has offered to recall the outstanding balance on loan three and then write  it off. 
As I dont find Mr Lender has done anything wrong,  I cant  require it to do more than this. I 
leave it with Miss C to let Mr Lender  know if she wants to accept  the offer that it has made.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that Mr Lender has already  
offered to do enough.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6950131