K820x#14complaint
Miss B and Mr G complain Santander UK Plc will not refund some disputed  transactions 
made to online  betting  websites  from their joint account.  They also complain about  the 
service they received during Santanders investigation.
Miss B brings this complaint on their behalf.
background
During the night  of 30th September 2018  and the early hours of 1st October 2018, a number 
of payments were made to an online betting  company - C.  They  were made using Mr Gs 
card from the joint account. The last transaction was made  at 3:21.
Miss B says they were both asleep  but she logged onto her online  banking at 3:52 because  
she said she had been sent text alert warnings about the balance on the account.  She saw 
the transactions and complained to Santander the following day.
Mr Gs card was cancelled  and a new one sent out to him whilst  Santander  investigated the 
payments to C.
On 31st December 2018, during the course of the afternoon, further  transactions  were made 
to two other  companies   B and E.  Again  - using Mr Gs new card for the account.   And  
again, Miss B complained to Santander and said they had not made  the transactions  
because they had been away from the house that afternoon and Mr Gs phone had been left 
at home.
Mr G accepted having accounts with C but does not accept he made these  particular 
transactions.
Santander did not uphold the complaint.   In short, it had spoken to C and B who had 
confirmed that the accounts set up with them held the details belonging to Mr G.  Also,  the 
phone which had been used to make  the transactions was a device  which had previously 
been used to make transactions  which had not been  disputed.  It said it was not going to 
refund the money.
So, Miss B brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not think Santander needed  to do anymore.  The matter was then 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   and having done  so, I arrive at the same  
conclusion as the investigator and for very much the same reasons.
As the investigator  has already  explained,  where the evidence suggests  a consumer has 
more than likely authorised the transactions,  a bank is entitled  to hold them liable.  However, 
the bank needs to show evidence of authentication as well as evidence that the consumer 
consented to the transactions.
Ref: DRN60342242Im satisfied from the evidence I have  seen that the transactions were authenticated   in that 
Mr Gs card was used  to make them.  For the following reasons, I am also satisfied that the 
payments were consented to:
-the evidence  from C and B shows the accounts  held with them were opened with 
details that match  Mr G;
-the device  used to make  the transactions was the same one used to make other, 
undisputed transactions in the past;
-two of Mr Gs cards  would need to have been  compromised for these transactions to 
have been carried  out by a fraudster.  I dont find this likely because this scenario 
would also involve  a fraudster having had access to Mr Gs phone  on both occasions;
-the disputed  transactions  are not so dissimilar in nature to previous transactions 
made to betting  companies and which are not being  disputed;
So, on balance, I am satisfied that these transactions were consented to and therefore 
authorised.
Regarding the customer service received,  I havent  seen anything  to suggest Santander was 
unfair or unreasonable in its approach.  The questions asked of Miss B and Mr G were 
appropriate questions  which  needed  to be answered  in the investigation of their complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6034224