K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that esure Insurance Limited  and its approved garage gave her poor 
service after she made  a claim on her motor  insurance policy.
background
Miss Cs car was damaged on 23 April 2018.  She got a hire car two days  later.  esures 
approved repairer  (garage D) initially said the repairs were complete in mid-May 2018,  but 
Miss C noted a fault with the bumper.  Garage  D fixed  it, and Miss C collected  the car a few 
days later.  She says it was in limp mode  and an engine warning light had appeared. She 
went back to the garage and was told the light was due to a sensor issue that was unrelated  
to the accident.  Miss C left her car at the garage  and kept the hire car.
esure said it would pay for the sensor  as a gesture of goodwill, and Miss C took the car to 
her own garage on 23 May 2018.  Her garage said there was unrepaired  accident  damage to 
the rear bumpers support bar.  esure  asked  for a report from Miss Cs garage. She said her 
hire was due to end the next day, so esure arranged another hire car from 26 May 2018. 
As esure thought the report from Miss Cs garage wasnt clear  enough,  it asked an 
independent engineer to inspect the car. He confirmed there  was unrepaired accident 
damage. His report was with esure  by 20 June  2018, but it wasnt  reviewed until 9 July 2018. 
Meanwhile, Miss C told us that on 20 June 2018 - or a week later - her hire was stopped 
again. She had no transport until she bought a new car on 5 July 2018.
On 9 July 2018 esure offered Miss C £200 compensation for the issues shed faced,  as well 
as authorising the repairs at her garage. Miss C thought the compensation should be higher. 
She pointed  out the level of upset and inconvenience  shed  faced, the delays caused by 
esure and garage  D, the rudeness of garage  Ds staff, and the time shed  spent dealing  with 
the problems caused by it and by esure. She also said shed run up expenses.    
One of our investigators  considered Miss Cs complaint. He thought  esure should pay her a 
further £300 compensation, plus 12 days loss of use for the days she was without a car. 
esure said Miss Cs car was driveable but for the sensor issue,  which  wasnt  accident-
related. So it said some of the hire it had paid for shouldnt have been paid, and no further  
payment would be made. It said the compensation proposed by the investigator was too 
high. Miss C said shed  been  without a car for 23 days.
The investigator issued  a second  view.  He said esure should  pay for 23 days loss of use 
(plus £300  more compensation).  esure asked for a review of the complaint by an 
ombudsman. I issued  a provisional decision as follows:  
 delay
Had garage D carried out all the accident-related repairs within  a reasonable time,  Miss C 
would have had her car back  around the middle  of May 2018. Thats when the garage  said 
all the work  was done  after rectifying  the problem with the bumper noted by Miss C. But 
she didnt get her car back fully repaired until August 2018. 
As far as I can see, theres  no engineering  evidence  to show  that the sensor fault was 
caused by the accident  or by garage  D, but esure  paid £200 for the part anyway. The sensor 
Ref: DRN68546802alone would  probably have been  fixed by Miss Cs garage  within a few days.  But the 
garages discovery of unrepaired accident  damage  led to a delay. 
I think it was fair for esure to ask for a report from Miss Cs garage and for it to appoint  an 
independent engineer. But esure didnt review the independent engineers report until 
9 July 2018. It offered to put matters right at that point by paying for the repairs and offering 
compensation. Its not clear why the repairs werent  done for a further month. But by then I 
think the avoidable delay caused by esure  and garage D was already about seven weeks. 
poor contact
Miss C complained about a lack of contact  on the part of garage Ds staff - and she told 
esure they had been rude to her. esure  says it didnt  get any clarification from Miss C about 
a few issues she complained to it about. I think this may be one of them.  If thats the case, it 
would have been hard to investigate it. Miss C said there was a lack of contact from esure as 
well. But she also told us she felt harassed  by the number of calls, texts  and emails shed 
received from several parties involved in the matter, including esure and garage D.
I can see that dealing  with a large  number of calls  especially  whilst  at work - would have 
been difficult for Miss C. I think  some  of it was unavoidable, given that shed made a claim. 
But there would have been  far less need to contact Miss C (and for a much  shorter time) had 
the repairs been done correctly in the first place. I think  it must  have been frustrating for 
Miss C not to receive contact or replies  as promised,  or within  a reasonable time, from esure 
or from garage D. Miss C has provided a few examples, but from what shes said there 
doesnt seem to have  been a sustained lack of contact.
car hire 
One of Miss Cs main  concerns was about the number  of days she was without a car. She 
was given a hire car two days after the accident.  I think it should have been possible  for 
esure to arrange  hire on the day before that, which  would have saved  Miss C taxi fares.
Theres a lack of clarity about how long Miss C retained the first hire car. She says she was 
without a car from 17 May 2018  to 26 May 2018.  Yet in her initial  account  to us she said the 
hire car was due to go back to the hire firm on 24 May 2018.  She said she asked esure for 
an extension,  as she didnt think her car was safe to drive. She said esure wouldnt agree to 
further hire at first, but relented, so she got another hire car from 26 May 2018 to a date in 
June 2018. If thats right,  Miss C was only without a hire car for two days  in May 2018.
I think theres also confusion about  the date the second hire car was withdrawn. Miss C first 
told us that it was on 27 June 2018. She seemed to be quite sure about the date, as it was 
the first day of a weeks annual leave. That meant  a family member  had to deal with the 
issue in her absence.  Later on, Miss C said the car was withdrawn on 20 June 2018. The 
hire firm gave  various dates on which the car was returned to it. esure said it didnt pay for 
hire after 20 June 2018, so if there was any further hire, the hire firm had arranged  it in error.
The extract  from the hire firms records that Ive seen is confusing  and may not be accurate. 
Theres a note about the authorisation  for hire ending  on 21 June 2018. But entries after that 
seem to show that the hire was extended. I think its more likely than not that Miss C gave us 
the right date for the end of hire when she first contacted us. Her recollection included both 
the day and the date the car was returned.  As Miss C bought a new car on 5 July 2018,  hire 
then became irrelevant.  
Ref: DRN68546803Based on the details  I have at the moment, as far as I can see Miss C was without a car on 
the day after the accident, for two days in May 2018  and for eight days  in June  / July 2018. 
So currently  I think esure should pay her for 11 days loss of use.
roadworthiness     
esures view was that there was no accident-related  damage that meant  Miss Cs car wasnt 
driveable  it says it was only the sensor  fault she initially had to have investigated. So it 
thinks it was too generous  in paying for the amount of hire shes  had. But it wasnt  just the 
sensor that made  Miss C believe it was unsafe  to drive the car.
I couldnt see a comment on the file from an engineer  on this point, so recently  we asked  
esure to provide one. It told us that an independent engineer  had said the car wasnt 
driveable given  the issues  with it (both the sensor and the rear support bar). esures view is 
that the car would have been  off the road anyway due to the faulty sensor, so the unfinished 
accident-related damage made no difference.
I think had the sensor been the only fault, Miss Cs repairer would probably have been able 
to repair  it very quickly after the car arrived in his garage on 22 May 2018. The fact that he 
noted serious unrepaired accident damage  meant Miss Cs car wasnt  ready until 
August 2018.  That was largely the fault of garage D, as it didnt do the work properly. So I 
think it was right for esure  to provide as much  hire as it did. I think  its fair that it should 
compensate Miss C for the periods it didnt do so.
expenses
Miss C thinks  she should be paid for various  expenses, including taxi fares,  loss of earnings 
and having to buy a new car. She hasnt  provided any evidence  of the first two items, so I 
cant consider them.  In terms of the new car, consumers sometimes buy a cheap run-
around vehicle  to mitigate their losses pending a repair or a dispute.  If they later sell that car 
at a loss, we usually say the insurer should  pay the difference.
But Miss C bought a brand new car. She says she didnt  want to do that, as it meant using 
some of her savings and taking out finance.  She says she saved esure the cost of hire for 40 
days by buying  the car. That may be true, but Miss C didnt have to go to the expense  of 
buying a car that cost so much more than her old one. Shell  continue  to benefit from the 
asset of having a new car, and her fully-repaired old car can be sold. I dont think  Miss C has 
shown that shes  faced a financial loss due to this issue. 
distress and inconvenience  
esure offered Miss C £200 compensation in July 2018. It still thinks that sum is enough to 
make up for its actions. I dont  agree, but Ive taken into account  that esure also paid £200  
for the new sensor   despite there being  no evidence  that the fault was accident-related. 
I think theres evidence that esure and garage D could have communicated better with 
Miss C. I have  no doubt that she was inconvenienced by having to make extra trips to the 
garage. As a result of the work not being  completed in the first place, Miss C collected  a car 
that wasnt roadworthy. She then had to liaise with esure and the hire company over a 
protracted period   as well as instruct her own repairer. And she had to wait too long for the 
repairs to be authorised, especially given the errors  that had already  been made. 
Ref: DRN68546804Taking everything into account,  I think it would be fair and reasonable to require esure to pay 
Miss C a further £150, making a total payment of £350 for distress and inconvenience.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. esure accepted  them. Miss C 
said esure didnt  pay for the sensor. She said she had no choice but to buy an expensive  car 
on finance. The hire car was withdrawn and she needed reliable transport. She didnt agree 
that she hadnt faced a financial loss in buying the car. She said shed still be driving her 
original car but for what happened. Miss C said I should reconsider the inconvenience  shed 
faced. She repeated that shed saved  esure  the cost of 40 days  hire until her car was fully 
repaired. And she said we should  take more seriously  the fact that garage  D lied and let her 
drive away  in an unsafe car, so her life was put at risk.
After considering these  comments  I issued  a further  provisional decision as follows:
We asked esure about the sensor.  It checked  and then confirmed that it hadnt paid for it. 
esure said it offered  to pay the labour cost for fitting  it, but Miss C didnt take up the offer.   
I think garage D made a serious error in saying it had completed all the work on Miss Cs 
car, when  in fact the rear support bar still needed repair. But I dont think  Miss C can show  
that it deliberately  withheld  that information  from her, as she believes. Fortunately, there was 
no consequence from garage Ds error in terms of Miss Cs safety. I understand why the 
thought of what might have happened is distressing for Miss C. But we cant  require  a 
business to compensate a consumer for a potential outcome. The inconvenience arising 
from the garages error is factored  in to the overall  compensation.
Understandably, Miss C was very frustrated by the sudden withdrawal of the hire car on 
27 June 2017.  It isnt clear why that happened - and I dont think it should have been 
withdrawn. Miss C wasnt happy  to drive her car at the time as she thought it was dangerous 
to do so. That later proved to be correct. At the time, esure still had to review  the 
independent engineers report, but it was always likely  or at least possible  that further 
repairs would have  to be authorised by esure.  I think a different decision may have been 
made had the person dealing with her claim not been  away at the time. Miss C decided  to 
buy a new car at this point  so she had reliable transport from then on.  
Miss C says that in the accident  that led to the repairs, the impact to the rear of the car was 
substantial. There  was also damage  to its front end. So I can see why she may not have 
wanted to drive it again, even after it was repaired.  Although theres no evidence  that the car 
wasnt safe to drive after all the repairs were done,  I think Miss Cs wariness of driving it was 
probably the reason behind her decision to buy a new car. Im still not persuaded that Miss C 
lost out financially in buying the car. Although  shes paying for it on finance, she now has an 
asset she didnt  have previously.   
If Miss C hadnt bought  the car, I think esure  is likely to have reinstated hire from 9 July 2018 
(when the independent engineers report  was read) until her old car was repaired. Had it not 
done so, Miss C could  have asked for a loss of use payment for that period. She could also 
have bought a run-around car for the last few weeks it took to repair  her car, as many  
consumers do. Shes  very unlikely to have  lost out financially had she done  that. So although 
I agree  that Miss C saved esure the cost of 40 days hire, I think  it was her choice to do so.  
As I said in my first decision, I think Miss C faced a lot of inconvenience  and frustration over 
a protracted period. When I proposed  that esure should  pay her a further  £150  
Ref: DRN68546805compensation, I did so on the basis that it had paid £200 for the sensor, as a gesture of 
goodwill. As that isnt what happened, I now think it would be fair and reasonable for esure to 
pay Miss C a further £350 compensation (plus the £200 it has already offered her). I think 
thats a substantial sum that reflects the amount  of distress and inconvenience  shes faced. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my new findings.  Miss C said the policy entitled her to a 
replacement car for the whole period she was without her own car. esure said that it had 
accepted my findings, but as Miss C hadnt, it wanted to highlight  a few points.
It said the proven  date of purchase for Miss Cs new car was 28 June 2018,  so there should 
be no payment for loss of use from that date on. It said it gave her a hire car (although she 
wasnt entitled to one in the policy) from the day the car went  into the garage  for repair. It 
said hire was authorised  again on 25 May 2018,  so the only loss of use was for one day. 
It said the delays  on its part didnt amount to seven weeks, as Miss C was responsible for 
two weeks of the delay as her garages report wasnt good enough. It said it had offered to 
refund the cost of fitting the sensor,  so it was Miss Cs choice to forego that sum. It said it 
was still willing to do so. And it said it had paid £185.50 in storage charges to Miss Cs 
garage as a gesture of goodwill.   
We asked Miss C about the cars  date of purchase. She said the garage had asked her to 
pay in June 2018 to fit in with its end of month target, but she wasnt able to collect it until 
5 July 2018. She said she couldnt recall how much  shed paid for the sensor to be fitted. 
And she insisted the policy entitled  her to a courtesy  car from the day of the accident up to 
the date her car was repaired, regardless of her having another car. 
I issued a further provisional decision  as follows:
replacement car
Its been hard to establish what number of days is relevant for loss of use, especially as the 
dates given by Miss C and the hire firm have varied. The policy  entitles Miss C to a courtesy  
car  but only whilst her car is being repaired  by one of esures approved repairers.  Its clear  
that wasnt her understanding. esure  and Miss C have confirmed she didnt have any extra 
cover on the policy  for a hire car (or enhanced  courtesy car cover).  It says it sometimes  
arranges hire car for a consumer, as an alternative  to a garages courtesy car, as in this 
case. Miss C has benefitted from that. 
As consumers have a duty to mitigate or control their losses,  I dont think  its reasonable for 
Miss C to say esure should have continued to provide a car for her once shed  bought 
another car. But I think its more likely than not that the explanation Miss C gave about why 
she didnt have the new car until 5 July 2018  is accurate.  I think  its plausible  that the garage 
asked her to pay for it a few days early, but that the car wasnt ready  to leave the garage  at 
that point. I think Miss C would have  been keen to collect  it just as soon as she could
I still think esure should pay for loss of use from 28 June 2018 to 5 July 2018. Miss C says 
she got a hire car the same day her car was taken to the garage. So there  was no loss of 
use at that point, given the policys provisions. But Miss C was without a car for two days  in 
May 2018. She was in hire until 24 May 2018  and from 26 May 2018.  Although  a hire car 
was available  the day before, it seems Miss C wasnt told she could have it that day.
distress and inconvenience
Ref: DRN68546806I still dont think esures  offer of £200  was enough  to compensate  for the overall amount of 
distress and inconvenience Miss C faced,  which  was largely caused by garage  Ds errors. 
Had the accident damage been fully repaired,  what followed could all have been avoided.  
Miss C was in hire for most  of the time her car was off the road,  although there was some 
disruption to the hire arrangements,  so she was without transport for several days. I think  
that can be dealt  with by a loss of use payment. Miss C could have taken up esures offer to 
pay for the cost of fitting the sensor  (and thats still open to her). 
esure paid storage charges to Miss Cs garage from May 2018  to July 2018.  But the repairs  
werent authorised  by esure until 9 July 2018, and the car wasnt safe to drive  until it was 
repaired. So from 20 June  2018  until that date, the delay in getting the work started  was 
esures fault. I think its fair to say that part of the overall delay in moving on with the repairs  
was due to Miss Cs garage  not providing  clear photos of the damage. As another engineer 
had to be instructed,  extra  time was taken up. But I think most of the delay was esures fault.    
Having considered all the circumstances again,  I think it would be reasonable for esure  to 
pay Miss C a further £150 for distress  and inconvenience (£350 in total)  plus 10 days loss of 
use at £10 a day. 
esure didnt  comment on my further provisional  findings. Miss C repeated that her life had 
been put at risk by esures  garage,  so she didnt think esure should be let off so lightly. She 
said esure had lied in saying it paid for the sensor,  yet the compensation  hadnt  changed 
when that emerged. Miss C insisted that as she was entitled to a replacement car when her 
car was with an approved repairer, she should  have had one for the whole period. She said 
the loss of use payment should  be for 23 days.  She said her views should be put to esure. 
She said it should be made aware  that in her view much higher compensation should  be 
paid and that shed take the matter  further if a sensible  offer wasnt  made.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think esure is already aware of how 
strongly Miss C feels about  what happened, and I think  its made  its position  clear. So its 
now for me to say what  I think is an acceptable way for it to settle Miss Cs complaint. 
Ive already commented on Miss Cs view of her life being put at risk by esures poor repairs.  
I know this is a major concern for her and I understand and sympathise with Miss Cs 
distress about what could have happened. But I dont think  she can show that the garage  
allowed her to drive away knowing about the unrepaired damage.  And I cant  require esure 
to compensate her for something  that didnt happen. 
In terms of the sensor, esure didnt lie about paying  for it. Unfortunately, I misunderstood the 
situation - which  was that esure had offered to pay for the sensor to be fitted,  but Miss C 
hadnt taken up its offer. As the offer remains open,  Miss C can still benefit from it. I took that 
into account when  looking at the overall  compensation.
For the reasons  Ive set out previously, I think Miss C should be paid for 10 days  loss of use. 
I dont think shes been able to show that the payment  should  cover 23 days.   
I know Miss C will be very disappointed  with my decision. I agree that she was let down by 
esure. The initial repairs had to be rectified twice  and a major  issue  was missed  by its 
Ref: DRN68546807repairer. There was a delay in authorising  the later repair  work,  plus some disruption  in car 
hire. But I think esure tried to make  up for what had happened by keeping Miss C in hire for 
most of the period  after the accident, by agreeing to her own garage doing  the later repair  
work, paying for storage  there, and offering her £200 compensation. 
Taking everything into account,  I think requiring esure to pay Miss C a further £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  - plus a loss of use payment - is a reasonable 
way to settle this complaint.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure  Insurance  Limited to 
pay Miss C £150 more compensation for distress and inconvenience  (£350 in total) plus 
£100 for 10 days loss of use. 
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6854680