K821x#15complaint
Mr O has complained about Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Markerstudy includes their agents.
background
Mr O took out car insurance with Markerstudy  in December 2016. His initial application  was 
done online  through a price comparison website. He then completed the purchase through  
an insurance broker.
During the online application  he was asked how many no claims bonus  (NCB) years  he had. 
He had 10 NCB years. Mr O was expecting that his NCB years  would  be taken into 
consideration and that he would earn a further year during his policy  with Markerstudy.  
In July 2017, Mr O was involved in a minor accident where his car was damaged.  He 
reported the accident to Markerstudy  immediately  and said the other driver was at fault. 
Mr O told Markerstudy  that he didnt want to make  a claim for his damage. During the call, 
Mr O asked if the accident would affect my no claims bonus. The call handler replied: If 
youre not making a claim, no it wouldnt  affect your no claims bonus, or not pay an excess. 
Mr O then asked if the position  would be any different  if he was deemed at fault for the 
accident. The call handler said: if youre not making  a claim it doesnt matter  whose fault it 
is, it would  only affect your no claims bonus if you make a claim for your own vehicle. 
At that point Markerstudy recorded the accident on a shared insurance database as, what  is 
known in the insurance industry, an information only incident (sometimes called 
notification only).
Sometime towards the end of 2017,  Mr O found  out that Markerstudy had recorded the 
accident on the shared database.  He wasnt  happy  that Markerstudy hadnt told him that 
they were going  to do that. When the policy came to renew, Markerstudy didnt offer Mr O a 
new policy. So the broker offered a new policy with a different insurer  that cost substantially 
more than his Markerstudy policy. But that renewal invite showed that Mr O had zero NCB  
years. Mr O said that was wrong as he expected Markerstudy to issue him with proof that he 
had 11 NCB  years (made up of the 10 he had when he took out the policy  and one he 
earned during  his time with them).
Mr O said that he found  out from another insurer that insured his other  vehicle that he had to 
declare the July 2017 accident.  He said that Markerstudy recording the accident as 
notification only on the shared database meant his premiums had increased.  He said that 
Markerstudy had misinformed  him as they had said the accident wouldnt affect his future 
premiums. But Markerstudy  said they had only told Mr O that not claiming for the accident  
wouldnt affect his NCB  and there  was no discussion about future premiums. There  was then 
some confusion on Markerstudys part as to how many NCB years  proof  they would issue  to 
Mr O.
Around a week  before his policy was due to end in December 2017, Mr O said he wanted to 
claim for the damage to his car from the July 2017  accident. Markerstudy  said that they 
warned Mr O of the potential consequences  of doing that, namely that if he claimed on his 
own policy and Markerstudy  couldnt recover their outlay (how much they spent on the repair 
Ref: DRN64314922of his car) from the other drivers insurer, the status  of the accident  on the shared database 
would change and potentially lead to higher future premiums. They also said Mr O claiming 
would have an effect on how many NCB years they could  confirm. 
Markerstudy accepted  that their call handler had given  Mr O incorrect information when he 
called to report the July 2017 accident.  They had told Mr O that his NCB wouldnt be affected 
if he didnt make a claim. But they said they should have also told him that if the other  driver  
had made  a claim against Mr Os policy, then his NCB could have been affected. But 
Markerstudy didnt uphold his complaint saying that although they misinformed  him, he didnt 
suffer any detriment because the other  driver didnt make a claim, so his NCB  wasnt  
affected by their misinformation.
Mr O brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
agreed with Markerstudy  in that they gave Mr O incorrect information about  his NCB, but she 
said he didnt suffer any detriment as a result. She also said the information Markerstudy 
gave Mr O about earning NCB years was unclear. Mr O didnt  agree  with our investigator as 
he said he did suffer detriment as his premiums had increased. The complaint was therefore 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 1 October 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im only intending  
to uphold this complaint  in part. Ill explain why.
When Mr O reported the July 2016 accident to Markerstudy he asked  if it would affect 
his NCB.  He was understandably concerned about  that. Markerstudys call handler 
gave him partially  correct  information in that his NCB wouldnt be affected as he 
didnt intend to make a claim. But she should  have gone on to say that if the other  
driver made  a claim against Mr Os policy claiming  Mr O was at fault for the accident,  
then it was possible that his NCB would be affected. Thats because NCB discount  is 
a reward given by Markerstudy, as with most  insurers, to a policyholder for there 
being no claims against their policy. That includes claims made by both the 
policyholder and/or third parties.  So while Mr O said he wasnt  making a claim, it was 
possible that the other driver involved could have  made a successful claim against 
Mr Os policy.  But that didnt happen. So Mr Os NCB wasnt affected for that reason. 
Thats why both Markerstudy and our investigator said that Mr O didnt suffer  a 
detriment because of the incorrect information given to him. 
Mr O disagrees  with that. I think thats because he believes he asked Markerstudy  
whether or not his future  premiums would be impacted by the accident rather than 
limiting his question  to any impact on his NCB.  But I have listened to the call 
recording carefully and Mr Os question  was specifically in relation to his NCB. Had 
Mr O asked if the accident would have any impact  on his future premiums, I would 
have expected Markerstudy to have told him that it possibly could have. Thats  
because some insurers feel that a policyholder being involved in an accident, albeit 
minor, where neither  party made  an insurance claim increases that policyholders 
risk. But some insurers dont think that increases the risk so they dont charge more 
in premiums.
Mr O is also unhappy that Markerstudy  didnt  tell him that they would record  the 
accident on the shared insurance database.  I should say that Markerstudy recording 
Ref: DRN64314923the incident on the database is standard industry practice. They  have an obligation to 
record such incidents to accurately reflect  the driving history of their policyholders.  Mr 
Os policy booklet has a section that explains that he must report  to them  all 
accidents or incidents, even where  they dont result in a claim being made, and that 
they will record it on the database. So I dont think Markerstudy did anything  wrong  
by not telling Mr O about  that during the phone call. 
Mr O isnt happy that his renewal premium for the 2017-2018 policy  year was 
substantially higher than the cost of his previous  policy with Markerstudy. But that 
renewal policy was offered to Mr O by another insurer, not Markerstudy. So if Mr O is 
unhappy with the renewal  policy he would  have to take that up with the insurer  that 
offered it to him. 
Turning to the issue of Mr Os NCB years. I should  say that after our investigator  
looked into the complaint, Mr O decided to no longer claim on his policy for the July 
2017 accident. So that means he had no claims on his policy for the policy  year he 
was insured with Markerstudy. So I intend  to require Markerstudy  to award  him a 
NCB year to reflect that. As Ive mentioned  earlier, there has been quite a bit of 
confusion about  Mr Os NCB position.  In a letter to Mr O, Markerstudy said they had 
agreed to honour  your previous  ten years NCB as from inception of the policy,  even 
though NCB  is not applicable to your specific policy. It might help if I explain that Mr 
Os is a specialist policy to which NCB  doesn't apply. In other  words,  while  Mr O 
previously had 10 NCB years his Markerstudy premium wasn't affected by that. So 
Markerstudy wouldn't usually award an extra NCB year  because it was a policy  that 
disregarded NCB. But I think that Markerstudy  have accepted there was confusion 
over the NCB position, which is why they accepted  to honour Mr Os 10 NCB  years.  
I think that is reasonable as Mr Os expectation was that his previous  NCB years 
would be taken into consideration and I dont think he was ever clearly  told that it 
wouldnt be. Given Mr O also had a claim free policy year with Markerstudy, as I have 
said above, I also intend to require Markerstudy  to award him a NCB year for that. So 
Markerstudy should send  a letter  to Mr O confirming  that when his policy  lapsed on 
13 December 2017, he had 11 NCB  years. If Mr O had taken out a new policy with 
another insurer for the following year, he should  show them  that letter and ask them  
to recalculate his premium on the basis that he had 11 NCB years.
Mr O has experienced quite a bit of inconvenience  due to the confusion  surrounding 
his NCB  position.  And I dont think Markerstudy  explained the position clearly  to him. 
So to address the inconvenience he has experienced, I intend to require Markerstudy  
to pay him £200  compensation  to address  that.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Neither Markerstudy  nor Mr O provided  
any comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
Ref: DRN64314924my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Markerstudy  
Insurance Company Limited  to:
Pay Mr O £200 compensation for the inconvenience he experienced. This should be 
paid within 28 days of us telling  them that Mr O has accepted my final decision.  If 
they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Send Mr O a letter confirming that as of 13 December 2017 he had 11 NCB years.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6431492