K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unreasonably refused to cover  his claim 
under his motor  policy for the loss of some items in his works vehicle after it was stolen. 
Mr R is represented by his brother also Mr R, so for the sake  of simplicity, I shall just refer to 
Mr R throughout. References to SOL include  all its agents.
background
Mr Rs vehicle was stolen  in February 2018. He made a claim to SOL for the loss of the 
vehicle, and the items in the cab. SOL accepted his claim and paid him £8,435.92 for the 
vehicle. It also paid him £295.00  for a bottle  jack, tyre pump, spanner set and socket set 
which were in the cab at the time of the theft.
Mr R had also claimed for the loss of a strimmer and chainsaw,  which  were also in the 
vehicle, but SOL said these were excluded as being work items under his policy.
Mr R was very unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of 
the view that SOL hadnt done  anything wrong given  the policy exclusion. Mr R didnt agree 
so his complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
My role and that of this service is to decide  whether SOLs decision to refuse to cover these 
items was reasonable and fair bearing in mind the policy conditions, and indeed  what  Mr R 
said at the time of the theft.
First, the policy specifically  excludes personal  belongings in the insured vehicle, which are 
goods or samples connected with the work  of any driver or passenger. Mr R is a gardener. 
So I dont  consider SOL did anything wrong  in first assuming the strimmer  and chain saw 
were most likely connected with Mr Rs work as generally gardeners  would use a strimmer 
and a chainsaw in gardening  work.
When Mr R spoke with SOL in March  2018 to discuss the claim for the items  in the cab, 
Mr R described  them  as stuff for work. And it was at that point SOL said there was no over 
for work related items. It was subsequently clarified that these  items  werent  used in the 
course of Mr Rs full time employment (as he is employed and not self-employed) but that 
they were used weekends for other  jobs and favours. 
Clearly, Mr R is a gardener  and these items are gardening equipment. He might not have 
used them for his actual employment although there is no independent evidence of this, 
other than what Mr R said. And he might have  used them at weekends  for his own use or 
that of friends  and he may or may not have received payment  for any of this. Again, theres 
no evidence to show he didnt receive any such payment. 
But the exclusion isnt concerned about  any of that. It simply provides no cover for goods 
connected with the work  of the driver  or passenger. Im fully satisfied that these items are 
Ref: DRN62558492clearly connected  with Mr Rs work,  and his skills as a gardener  so I dont think SOL were 
unreasonable or unfair to refuse cover for these items.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6255849