K821x#15complaint
Mr L, as trustee of the bankruptcy  of Mr T, on behalf of Alderney  Offshore Limited  is seeking  
reimbursement from The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited,  of the fees that 
hes incurred.
The fees were  for the settling of 50% of the monies  paid out under a joint endowment life 
policy which  was in the name  of Mr T and his wife Mrs T.
background
Mr T has been  in bankruptcy since 2007. The policy jointly  held by him and Mrs T matured in 
May 2016, and Mrs T received her 50% of the proceeds.  
Mr L says that Royal Londons  actions were  incorrect, and the trustees  shouldve  received 
the full maturity value of the policy. 
Instead only when  the signed  forms were received from Mrs T, and the estate of the 
bankruptcy, only 50% was paid to Mr L in August 2018. 
The Royal London  says even if there  was an agreement between  Mrs T and the estate  of 
the bankruptcy of Mr T, it had no instructions about  the pay-out. So, it was correct  to pay Mrs 
T 50% of the proceeds. Its terms and conditions make no provision for when a policyholder 
is in bankruptcy.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In short,  
he said:
The issue is whether  the business did anything wrong when administering  the 
maturity of the policy. Having received the evidence he feels that the business made 
an error. 
In light of Mr Ls email to the business in 2018  the business  could have told Mr L 
about the 2016 payment  to Mrs T. Had it done so Mr L wouldnt have sought to 
obtain Mrs Ts signature, and incur additional fees and time trying to do so. 
It wouldnt be fair for Mr L to pay for these fees incurred because  of the business 
error. 
The business should therefore  refund Mr L the fees incurred in obtaining Mrs Ts 
signature with 8% simple  interest.  
Royal London rejected the adjudicators  view. In short, it said:
It wasnt responsible for any claim for wasted time and effort  by the trustee  in the 
bankruptcy firm. 
It was at liberty to pay half the proceeds  of the policy to Mrs T in 2016. 
It didnt need  to tell the trustee, in 2018, that the proceeds had been paid previously. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62167302Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Royal  London says, I think  its 
responsible for Mr Ls reasonable costs  in obtaining  Mrs Ts signature which  was 
unnecessary. 
In light of the bankruptcy proceedings in place,  I think the business ought reasonably to have 
informed the trustee  that 50% of the policy had been  paid out in 2016. 
I dont think it was necessarily right that Royal London in response  to Mrs Ts request paid 
out half the value of the joint-policy, without  telling the trustee at the time or in August 2018  
when the trustee  asked  for the maturity forms, which required Mrs Ts signature. 
On balance, Im therefore satisfied that Royal London is responsible  for the wasted time and 
cost incurred by the trustee,  with 8% simple interest, from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay the trustee  Mr L as set 
out above.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L, on behalf of 
Alderney Offshore  Limited to accept  or reject  my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6216730