K820x#14complaint
Miss L has complained  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a packaged bank 
account, called a Select account, in 2005. She paid a monthly fee for the account  and 
received several  potential  benefits in return.  
Miss L thinks  that Lloyds  should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest.  
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and didnt think that Lloyds 
had mis-sold the Select account  to Miss L and didnt recommend that it should give her any 
money back.
Miss L didnt  agree  with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  
her case.  So it has come  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about this case. Ive looked  into 
everything that Miss L and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Miss L has told us the in 2003 she worked for Lloyds, and that while  employed  there  she 
opened one of its fee-free accounts. Shes  said that a year or so after starting  work, she 
went into one of Lloyds  branches,  primarily as a customer not as an employee,  and that an 
adviser told her to open a Select account  so that she would be eligible for a loan, an 
overdraft and a credit card. Shes told us that she chose not to do so at the time, but during 
2005 she wanted a loan,  so she switched to the Select account using Lloyds online internet 
service.
Lloyds has looked  at its records for Miss L and has told us that it believes: 
in 2003, she opened a fee-free  account  called a Classic Staff account
in Spring 2005, she switched online to the Select  account, for which she paid a fee 
in Summer 2005, she switched online to a Select  Plus account for which  she also 
paid a fee 
she closed her account with Lloyds in 2007.
Lloyds has not mentioned  Miss Ls conversation in its branch, but given the nature and 
outcome of that discussion I am not surprised that it has no records from the time.
I dont know exactly how long passed  between this discussion and Miss L going  online to 
buy the Select account, but I think the two events were sufficiently separate  for me to treat 
this case as an online sale,  although I accept that Miss Ls discussion in the branch may well 
have triggered  her initial interest  in the Select account. 
Ref: DRN63537222Miss L has not mentioned the Select Plus account, and Lloyds only significant  comment has 
been to say that when it investigated  Miss Ls complaint, it treated the Select Plus account  
as a continuation of its previous decision. However, I gather from Lloyds own records that 
these events took place about  three  months apart. So they seem to me to have been 
separate events.  
I dont accept Lloyds  view that the way it sold the Select Plus account continues  
automatically from the way it sold the Select  account. And as neither party  have said 
anything significant  about the Select  Plus account, in this decision I have only covered the 
way Lloyds sold the Select account  to Miss L. This means that if Miss L wishes, she is still 
free to raise any concerns  she may have about  the Select Plus account  directly with Lloyds. 
She may subsequently be able to bring  any complaint about it to us, but I cant  give her any 
advice about this or suggest how Lloyds may choose to respond to her. 
As Lloyds  sold the Select account  to Miss L online, I think its highly unlikely that it 
recommended the account to her personally.  This meant that it had to give Miss L a fair 
choice about the buying the account, and inform her clearly about the accounts costs  and 
benefits; but it didnt have  to check that the account  was right for her personal financial 
situation.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Lloyds allowed  Miss L a choice about buying the 
Select account. She already  had a fee-free account, and I havent seen anything  to make me 
think that Lloyds  was planning  to withdraw  this account from her. 
Lloyds stopped selling the Select  account from around 2008,  so I havent seen the online 
screens that Miss L would have seen in 2005, but it seems highly likely to me that they 
would have described the main benefits  of the account. After all, Lloyds was trying to sell the 
Select account to its customers and it was in its own interests to explain what they could 
obtain from it.
Similarly, I doubt that Lloyds system told Miss L that she needed to buy the Select account 
to get a loan, as it had no grounds  to do this. And the charges for the Select account would 
appear on Miss Ls statements, and on other information Lloyds sent to her, so I think its 
highly unlikely that it tried to hide them from her online. I think  Lloyds online system would 
have told Miss L how much the Select  account would cost her. 
When Miss L bought  the Select  account, its potential benefits  included cheaper overdrafts 
than Lloyds offered  to its customers  with fee-free accounts, car breakdown cover and mobile 
phone insurance.  I understand that at the time Miss L drove  a car and that she also 
registered a mobile  phone for insurance, so she may have found the car breakdown cover 
and mobile insurance  potentially  useful.
In correspondence  with us, Miss L has questioned  the value of the mobile phone insurance 
as she doesnt  think it was suitable  for her needs. Shes told us that someone  else used her 
phone extensively  and ran up a very large  bill, but then refused  to pay it. Shes said that she 
enquired about  potentially  claiming on the insurance  for this bill, but was told the policy  
wouldnt cover  it. So she thinks Lloyds may have mis-sold the Select account  to her on these 
grounds. 
I dont know how far Miss L pursued  her possible insurance claim, and I sympathise with her 
for the situation  in which she found herself,  with a large bill she didnt expect.  If I thought that 
Lloyds had wrongly told her that she would be covered for this type of situation, then I would 
Ref: DRN63537223consider upholding her case as a mis-sale.  However,  I havent  seen anything to make  me 
think that Lloyds  mis-led  her in this way.
During our investigation into this case,  Miss L has also raised  several other points of 
complaint. For example,  she has said that Lloyds pushed the account on to her, and that it 
didnt tell her about possible exclusions for medical conditions which sometimes apply to 
travel insurance policies. However, as I am satisfied that Lloyds gave Miss L a choice about 
the account, I dont  think  it pushed her into buying it; and the account  didnt provide travel 
insurance, so the question of medical exclusions didnt arise. I have also considered Miss Ls 
other concerns, but I havent found any reason to think Lloyds mis-sold  the Select account to 
her. 
So in summary,  while  I accept that Lloyds may not have got everything right in the way it 
sold the Select account to Miss L, I dont think it treated her unfairly.
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Select  account to Miss L. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Miss Ls complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6353722