K820x#14complaint
Ms M complained because she hasnt received a refund from Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited after she effectively paid for an item twice.
background
Ms M ordered some furniture from Shop Direct  for £189. Over the next few months various  
debits and credits for £189 were placed on the account. At one point Shop Direct told Ms M 
that she had received two credits on the account  and she would need to pay £189, which 
would then be refunded in a few days.  Ms M made the payment. Since then shes contacted 
Shop Direct about the refund but she hasnt received anything.
Shop Direct accepts  that Ms M was incorrectly told to pay the £189 and that it wasnt  
necessary for her to make the payment. It said the payment  could now be refunded, but the 
balance on the account would increase as the money had been allocated to pay for other 
items that had been charged  to the account.
Shop Direct also paid Ms M a total of £70 compensation for the poor customer service and 
the stress  caused.  When it forwarded its file to us it offered a further £30 to cover  the cost of 
the telephone calls Ms M had made.
Our investigator felt that what Shop Direct  had offered was a fair way to settle the complaint. 
Shop Direct said it had nothing further to add. Ms M was happy to receive  the refund but she 
didnt think the extra £30 offered was sufficient given the months  shes spent chasing the 
refund and shes been a loyal customer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not entirely clear  to me why all the credits and debits were placed on the account. What 
is clear though, and what Shop Direct accepts, is that Ms M made a payment of £189  when 
she didnt need  to. Its also clear that this payment hasnt been refunded  although I accept 
what Shop  Direct says about it being  used to pay for other  purchases  Ms M has made.
Given the unnecessary  payment, I think its right that Shop  Direct refunds this to Ms M. But 
this will obviously  affect the balance on the account  as the items that had previous  been paid 
for by the extra payment  will no longer be paid for.
I dont punish  businesses for getting something wrong. Any compensation I award is 
designed to make up for the impact  the wrongdoing had on the consumer. I can see in this 
case that its been distressing for Ms M to be without  her money and inconvenient for her to 
keep chasing  this. She also incurred a cost in having to phone  Shop Direct. But Im satisfied 
that the total amount  now offered by Shop  Direct makes up for this. Had nothing  been 
offered at all, £100 is in the region  of what I would have made Shop Direct pay. So I dont 
think there are grounds to make it pay any more.
Ref: DRN61826562my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited to:
-refund  the £189 to Ms M; and
-pay Ms M a further £30 compensation (making it £100 in total).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6182656