K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M (the borrowers) have  complained  about a fixed rate business loan which they 
took out in 2015 with Santander  UK Plc. Theyve  said that Santander  didnt properly inform  
them about  the break costs that they might have to pay if they needed to or wished to repay 
the loan early.
Background
The borrowers refinanced to Santander in 2014  and borrowed  more money to invest  in their 
business of property refurbishment. They initially borrowed at a variable rate, as they were  
drawing down additional money  as work  progressed. In 2015 they converted the loan to a 
fixed rate over the remaining  nine years of the loan term.  
The borrowers say their business experienced some financial stress in 2017 and they 
decided to sell the property to which the loan related. They paid a break cost of around  
£24,000 when  they repaid the loan. At that time the loan capital (ie the sum repaid) 
amounted to around £444,000. 
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should succeed. She concluded the information 
Santander provided about potential  break  costs  wasnt sufficient to alert the borrowers  to 
how high these might  be. She thought that, if the borrowers had been given adequate 
information, they wouldnt have chosen to fix the rate for as long as nine years.  She thought  
that a fair resolution was for Santander to rewrite  the fixed  rate to a five year term. 
Santander didnt  agree. It thought the information  it provided about break costs was 
sufficient. Although the illustration was for a fixed rate over five years,  it thought the 
borrowers could have worked out the break  costs for a longer term. 
It also said there were notes from the time that suggested the borrowers werent intending  to 
repay within the fixed rate term. It said the borrowers had a choice of fixing  for five or ten 
years and chose the latter  (in fact they fixed for nine years), even though  it was more 
expensive in terms of monthly repayments, presumably because  it gave  them valuable 
protection against interest rate rises for a longer  term. 
Santander added that it hadnt imposed  any condition that the interest  rate on the loan 
should be fixed, nor had it advised the borrowers  regarding the suitability of the loan for their 
circumstances. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Santander but Ive 
decided the complaint succeeds. My reasons are broadly similar to those given by the 
adjudicator.
I think its important that a lender should adequately inform any borrower wishing to enter 
into a fixed rate commercial loan about  the break  costs that may apply if the loan is repaid 
before its expiry, and in particular about the potential size of those break  costs.  And that 
should be so whether  or not the lender advises the borrower regarding  the loan.
What is adequate may vary, according to the facts of the case.  
Ref: DRN62198232In this case Mrs M emailed Santander  as follows: We would like to fix the interest rates  for 
10 years.  Have we already done  this or do we need more paper work?  Does this fixing incur  
higher breakage fees should  we wish to pay off the mortgage early?
So, before fixing,  the borrowers asked Santander  a specific question  about the potential size 
of break  costs for a ten year fix.
As far as I can tell, Santander  didnt specifically  answer this question, in terms of a ten year 
fix. It supplied  the borrowers with a standard information sheet about fixed  rate loans.  
Among other  things the sheet described  the principle of break costs and gave some 
examples of how large they might be. The examples were based  on a £1,000,000 loan 
where, by the time the loan came to be repaid early and in full, the market interest rate had 
fallen by up to 3% and there remained up to five years before the loan expired.
In certain circumstances, I accept that this information may have sufficed to make  borrowers 
aware of the potential  size of break costs. But I dont think  that, without more, it did so in this 
case. In particular, the information didnt contain any examples of the size of break  costs  
where the fix was for ten years, which was the borrowers specific question. Nor did 
Santander answer the question separately from the information sheet.
Santander argues  that the borrowers could have extrapolated the answer  to their question 
from the examples  given.  It says the borrowers  loan was for a little less than half of £1m,  
and the loan was (in the end) for nine years, which was a little less than twice as long as five 
years. 
To Santander as the expert, I accept the matter  may appear to be that straightforward and 
obvious, but I dont accept  it was necessarily so for the borrowers. Theyd asked a specific 
question and in my view they were  entitled to a specific answer. Such an answer would have 
made the borrowers aware that the break costs under  the loan were potentially  very large 
indeed for a ten year fix.
The question is then what, if anything, the borrowers  would have  done  differently. I cant  be 
sure about  this of course and I have to base my conclusions on the available  evidence and 
arguments.
The borrowers say their typical refurbishment  project lasted around  five years,  although this 
one in fact lasted longer. In a conversation with the adjudicator, Mrs M said they intended to 
stay in the area until at least 2020 while their daughter was at school. The borrowers also 
say that they repaid the loan early because their business experienced difficulties and they 
feared they might  otherwise  lose control  over the sale of the property.
Santander says that it was the borrowers  own decision to fix for nine years  and indeed  to 
fix at all  and that they gave no indication of wanting to repay the loan early.  The bank says 
there is even a note suggesting the borrowers positively indicated they wouldnt repay during 
the loan term. 
For me the question isnt whether a nine year fix was suitable for the borrowers.  Santander 
didnt advise the borrowers  to fix the interest rate, for ten years, nine years or for any 
particular term of years. Nor is the primary question whether the borrowers indicated they 
might wish to repay the loan early.
Ref: DRN62198233The primary question is, rather,  how if at all the borrowers would have acted differently if 
theyd known how large the break costs might  be if they fixed for ten or nine years.  The fact 
that the borrowers specifically asked the question about break costs shows  it was material to 
their decision  about fixing.
On balance, I think the borrowers  would have fixed for five years instead of nine.  I consider 
that the potential size of the break costs for a ten or nine year term, and the additional 
liability that might occur  because of an unforeseen or unplanned  repayment occurring 
during a longer term, plus the pattern of their business, would together  have dissuaded them  
from fixing for more than five years. 
The fact that, as I understand it, the fixed rate under  a five year fix would have been lower 
than for a nine or ten year fix, would also in my view militate in favour of the borrowers 
choosing a five year fix, if theyd been  adequately  informed about break costs.
my final decision
I dont think Santander  UK Plc provided sufficient  information about the potential break 
costs. I think that, if it had, Mr and Mrs M would still have taken out a fixed rate, but over a 
shorter term. 
To put matters right, Santander UK Plc should put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would 
have been in if theyd taken out a five year fixed rate starting in September 2015 and running 
until September 2020 or earlier repayment. It should:
reimburse the difference in payments between the existing and replacement  fixed  
rates, until repayment in 2017. If the payments  on the five year fixed rate are more 
than for the nine year fixed rate (in fact I understand they would have been less),  
Santander can offset this against  any losses;
recalculate the break costs paid and refund any difference in the break costs paid on 
the nine year fixed rate and the replacement five year fixed  rate;
add compensatory  interest at 8% simple a year to the reimbursed payments from the 
date the cost arose to the date of settlement.
If Santander believes its legally obliged to deduct tax from the interest, it should send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment. Mr and Mrs M may be able to reclaim any tax 
overpaid from HMRC, depending on the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6219823