K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  Admiral  Insurance Company Limited didnt make  it clear that she wasnt  
insured to drive  other cars under  her car insurance  policy.
background
In April 2018 Miss P bought her car insurance policy with Admiral on the phone.  In 
December 2018  she was driving another  car and was stopped  by the police for driving 
without insurance. She was subsequently  given  the option of a fine and points on her licence 
or to appeal this and go to court. She decided to appeal  and complain to Admiral.
She said to Admiral she thought she was insured to drive other  cars and it hadnt  made  it 
clear she wasnt.  So she wanted  Admiral to change her policy retrospectively, so she could 
show she was legally  insured to drive  at the time she was stopped. 
Admiral said it had made it clear Miss P couldnt drive other cars under her policy. It said the 
ability to drive other cars is an extension to a policy, which is given when certain  terms are 
met. So, it wouldnt confirm she was covered at the time she was stopped. It said she could 
cancel the policy and buy a policy that allowed her to drive other cars. And, as a gesture of 
goodwill, it agreed to waive  any cancellation  charges if she did this. Miss P didnt feel this 
was fair, so brought her complaint to our service.
An investigator at our service looked into Miss Ps complaint and didnt  think  it should be 
upheld. He thought Admiral had made  the limitation to driving the vehicle insured under the 
policy clear.  Miss P doesnt agree and so the case has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied Miss Ps policy  didnt cover her to drive another car. But the key consideration in this 
case is whether Admiral did enough to make this clear to Miss P when she bought the policy. 
When selling  the policy, Admirals representative needed to make sure Miss P had sufficient 
information to decide whether it was right for her, including making sure she was aware  of 
any significant limitation and exclusions.  And, it needed to make  sure any key information it 
provided after the sale was presented in a clear, fair and not misleading way. And any 
documentation also needed to make the significant  limitations clear. 
Admiral has explained  the policy didnt provide cover for Miss P to drive other cars. This is 
because she only holds  a licence to drive automatics.  The policy  does cover  this for most 
drivers over 25 as standard, but this didnt apply  under Miss Ps policy. I think  this is a significant 
limitation, which it needed to be drawn  to Miss Ps attention when  she bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN62633372Miss P bought  the policy  during a phone call.  And  the representative  went through the 
details of the policy in full so Miss P could make sure it was right for her. The representative 
spoke about the vehicle  to be covered, the level of cover, the exclusions and limitations.  And 
she specifically mentioned the fact the policy didnt cover Miss P to drive other cars. Miss P 
has said her phone cut out and she didnt  hear this, but Ive listened  to a recording of the call 
and she didnt mention a problem with her phone and I cant  see how the adviser would have  
realised this had happened. So, I dont think the adviser did anything wrong. And I think the 
adviser mentioning  the fact the policy didnt cover Miss P driving other  cars, means Admiral  
fulfilled its obligation  to highlight it. 
After Miss P bought the policy  Admiral sent her an Insurance Product  Information  Document. 
On the first page  it said in a bullet pointed  list under  the heading  What  is insured - Driving  
other cars: if you meet a certain criteria, you can drive other  cars.   We will confirm  if this is 
included on your certificate of motor  insurance 
On the first page  of the Certificate of Motor  Insurance it says: The driving of other cars 
extension is not included for any driver on the policy
Miss P says because the reference to check her certificate was listed under Whats covered 
section of the Insurance Product Information  Document, it was misleading.  However, the 
reference clearly states this cover is subject to certain criteria and refers Miss P to her 
Certificate of Motor Insurance. And  as Ive already  mentioned   the certificate clearly  
states on the first page, under section three, that an extension isnt included for Miss P to 
drive other vehicles under the policy. So I think the Product Information Document is clear  
enough and does sufficiently draw the limitation around driving other cars to Miss Ps 
attention, by mentioning the need  for her to check her certificate of insurance,  where  this 
was set out.  
Miss P was also sent a Motor Policy  Schedule.  This is a two-page document,  which  is 
specific to Miss Ps policy. The document is split into key sections and provides  key 
information about the policy. It clearly  explains endorsements apply to this policy  and details 
the policy doesnt cover driving other  cars, albeit right at the end of the document.  So again, 
I think this helped draw the limitation to Miss Ps attention. 
So  overall   Im satisfied Admiral fulfilled its obligations to Miss P when it sold the policy.  
I appreciate Miss P thinks Admiral needed to do more to highlight the fact the policy didnt 
provide cover for her to drive other  cars, but I dont agree. I think  by mentioning it over the 
phone, highlighting the need for her to check her certificate on the Product Information 
Document, highlighting it in the schedule and including it in the certificate Admiral did 
enough. This means its not appropriate for me to uphold Miss Ps complaint, because  I dont 
think Admiral actually  did anything wrong.   If anything wasnt correct,  Miss P had the 
opportunity to contact  Admiral. If she did this within the cooling off period, and decided  the 
cover wasnt  suitable, she could have cancelled her policy without additional  charges and 
bought alternative  cover  elsewhere. But as Miss P didnt query her cover, I dont think 
Admiral did anything wrong.
Ref: DRN62633373my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6263337