K820x#14complaint
Mr O as executor of the estate of the late Mr O complains about the charges that were 
applied to his mortgage account  by Santander UK Plc and about the conversion of the late 
Mr Os mortgage to a repayment mortgage and extension of its term. In this decision  I shall 
call the late Mr O, Mr O1 and his son the executor, Mr O2.
background
Mr O1 had a mortgage with Santander  which he took out on an interest-only basis  in 1990  
with the capital to be repaid in 2004  by the proceeds of an endowment  policy. When the 
original term expired Santander  required  repayment of the capital. As this wasnt paid, 
Santander changed the mortgage to capital and interest and extended the term. 
Mr O1 sadly died on 12 June 2017  and his son complains about the conversion of the 
mortgage to capital repayment and the charges that were  applied to the account.
Our adjudicators view was that we could only consider those charges raised by Santander 
in the six years before 22 November 2017. He also felt that we couldnt consider the point 
about Santander converting  the mortgage  to a repayment mortgage  and extending its term 
as this point was already addressed by an Ombudsman previously. 
As Mr O1s account was in arrears from 2011 and in fact no payments were made, our 
adjudicator felt that Santander had fairly charged an arrears fee each month. Santander, 
because of Mr O1s illness decided  to waive the arrears charges after May 2013  which  
totalled £520. Santander also offered Mr O2 compensation of £30 which he didnt accept. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that 
Santander had dealt fairly with the account. Mr O2 disagreed and asked  for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under our rules we cannot hear every complaint. Our rules  say that we can only consider a 
complaint about  a banks actions if the complaint  is brought within  the time prescribed by our 
rules. Our adjudicator set out what those rules are and the period of time that we can 
consider the complaint. In this case Mr O2 brings a complaint about  the banks charges and 
our adjudicators view was that we can consider those for the six years before November 
2017. I see that Mr O2 acknowledged that our adjudicator  wasnt  going to look beyond  the 6 
years with regard to his complaint and asked  him to proceed with the investigation. The bank 
has refunded the charges from May 2013  so the relevant period in respect of the charges is 
from November 2011 until May 2013. 
Mr O1 was in arrears throughout this period and each month Santander charged a monthly 
arrears fee of £40. According to the tariff of fees, this is for the costs associated  with 
managing an account  while it remains in arrears  with no arrangement to repay in place. 
Although Mr O2 refers to excessive charges,  these  are the normal  charges applied to an 
account in arrears and are similar to the fees of other lenders.  
Ref: DRN69652912Mr O2 believes that I should investigate each individual charge but that is incorrect as the 
fee is not generated when  an individual arrears  activity is taken. This is a fee which the 
lender is allowed to charge for the extra cost of dealing with accounts in arrears.  Mr O2 has 
also asked me to consider that Mr O1 was seriously ill and unable to communicate with 
Santander. But the references  to Mr O1s illness resuming are to May 2013 and Santander 
has made allowance for that. I have seen nothing  that would indicate  that for medical  
reasons Mr O1 was unable to communicate  with Santander before May 2013. The 
ombudsmans final decision in February 2013  makes no reference to any medical difficulties 
that would  prevent Mr O1 contacting the lender.    
Mr O1s account was in arrears and there  was no arrangement  in place. If I look at the 
contact notes, I can see that the bank regularly reviewed the account, sent a number of 
letters to encourage Mr O1 to make contact with it and agents visited  the property. So, there  
is evidence that the bank  managed the account  when it was in arrears. I note that with the 
refund of fees,  the bank  hasnt charged fees for the full period from 2011. But Santander has 
charged the remaining fees in line with its tariff of charges and I cant  agree with Mr O2 that 
they arent due. Although I havent dealt with the period before 2011  if the same  situation 
existed with the account in arrears and no arrangement, I expect that my view would  be the 
same as regards the charges during that period  also.
Mr O2 says in his letter  to us of 12 April 2019  that that he wants me to decide whether it was 
legal for Santander  to covert the mortgage to a capital repayment  mortgage. But the 
complaint about  the conversion  and extension of the mortgage was already brought by Mr 
O1 and dealt with by our ombudsman in 2013  who decided that the bank was not at fault for 
taking the action it did. There is no reason for me to revisit that complaint and I dont intend 
to do so. For the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O2 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6965291