K821x#15complaint
Mr Q has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mr Q says he couldnt  afford  these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed seven short-term loans for Mr Q between June 2014  and March  2018. 
Each loan was repayable over between one and three months.
Loan 3 was a flexible  credit agreement (flex-credit). This was a credit  facility that allowed 
Mr Q to draw  down  money up to a pre-agreed  credit  limit, with a view to repaying it  
potentially over a period  of up to 10 months.
Several of Mr Qs loans  were topped up, sometimes on more than one occasion. This is 
where Mr Q took out further borrowing under the same agreement,  before paying  back the 
initial amount  borrowed.  Ive set out a summary of the lending below.
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 18/06/2014 200 1 240
2 06/07/2014 400 1 480
2a (top-up) 09/07/2014 150 1 660
flex credit application credit limithighest estimated monthly 
repayment due (£)
3 08/09/2014 950 522
3a (limit 
increase) 08/11/2014 1,000 not provided
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
4 22/10/2016 250 1 328
5 01/01/2017 700 3 874
5a (top-up) 24/01/2017 250 3 1,185
5b (top-up) 25/01/2017 150 3 1,373
6 14/01/2018 1,200 3 1,478
7 29/03/2018 850 3 1,047
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Qs complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks QuickQuid carried  out on loans  1, 2 4 and 5 
were proportionate, but that the checks carried out on loans 2a  3a, and loans 5a  7 
werent.
He thought that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks on the above loans, it 
wouldve concluded that loans 2a  3a, and loans 5a  7 wouldve been  unaffordable for 
Mr Q, and would not have agreed to them.
QuickQuid disagreed with the findings. And Mr Q raised no new arguments in response to 
the adjudicators  assessment. So as no agreements been  reached at this stage, the case  
has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
Ref: DRN61834472As it seems loans 1, 2 4 and 5 are no longer in dispute, my decision will focus  on 
QuickQuids decision to approve the remaining loans, loans 2a  3a and loans 5a  7.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments, 
including validation of Mr Qs income  and expenses before funding these loans. It said it 
started implementing changes to affordability assessments in June  2014  and all the changes  
were completed by 28 February 2015.
It said that starting 1 March 2015, it had implemented an affordability review that was 
consistent with the FCA (Financial  Conduct  Authority) Handbook and was in place at the 
time it received authorisation by the FCA. And that its assessment was conducted properly 
and individually  for each of these  applications  after this date.
QuickQuid raised this argument in both its initial submissions, and in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  However,  our job is to look not only into the rules and regulations  
set by the regulator at the time of borrowing but also the law, good industry practice  and all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to help us decide whether we think  what  the business 
has done is right or not. And in this case I don't think QuickQuid  was right to provide  Mr Q 
with some of the loans  he borrowed. Id also like to highlight that loans 2a  3a were  taken 
out before  QuickQuid  implemented changes to its affordability model.
This service has responded to the above  generic argument from QuickQuid both directly  and 
through earlier final decisions. So Im not going to expand on this point any further here, 
though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my decision. 
And I would remind QuickQuid at this point of the FCA guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Qs complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
Ref: DRN61834473QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr Q 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Qs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Qs complaint. These  questions  are:
1.Did QuickQuid, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr Q would be able to repay  in a sustainable way? If not, would 
those checks have  shown that Mr Q would have been able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Qs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ref: DRN618344741. Did QuickQuid, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  
itself that Mr Q would  be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr Q would have been  able to do so?
Mr Q repaid loan 1 on 1 July 2014,  and loan 2 was taken out just five days after Mr Qs initial 
loan was repaid.  For loan 2, Mr Q borrowed  £400,  which was twice  the amount he borrowed 
on his first loan. And after just three  days of taking  out loan 2, he again approached  
QuickQuid to top this loan up by a further £150.  
Given the quick succession in which Mr Q was taking out these  short term lending advances, 
I think QuickQuid shouldve become concerned about what  other short-term lending  Mr Q 
may have  owed at this stage. Had it looked  into this, I think it wouldve seen that Mr Q owed 
over £1,200 to other short-term lenders when he took out this advance.  And that a further 
monthly repayment to QuickQuid of £660, would  take his total short-term lending 
commitments to almost £1,900 that month. 
Given that the total short-term credit Mr Q wouldve been committed to wouldve represented 
over 75% of Mr Qs monthly  income;  as a responsible lender, I think QuickQuid wouldve 
realised, had it carried out proportionate  checks, that Mr Q was in no position to meet the 
repayments on this loan sustainably. And that therefore would not have agreed to loan 2a.
Loan 2 and the top-up on this loan (loan 2a) were settled on 1 September 2014. And on 
9 September 2014, Mr Q again approached QuickQuid to borrow further funds.  And this 
time, was provided with QuickQuids flexible credit facility. This gave him a credit  limit of 
£950, and set out a repayment schedule, giving  him the option to repay  this amount over 
ten months.  
But based  on the schedule set out in QuickQuids agreement,  the repayments on this loan in 
the early part of the agreement could be as much  as £522. And little had changed in Mr Qs 
circumstances since he took out the top-up on his previous loan, and he was still heavily 
indebted to other short-term lenders.  So I think proportionate checks wouldve again showed  
QuickQuid that Mr Q was still in no position to commit to any further credit commitments at 
this time, and as a responsible lender, would not have agreed  to the flex credit account,  and 
the subsequent increase in credit  limit that followed.  
There was a gap of around  17 months between Mr Q repaying loan 3 and taking out loan 4, 
and as Ive highlighted above, the sale of loans 4 and 5 are no longer in dispute.  But after 
Mr Q took out loan 5 in January 2017, he went back to QuickQuid again on 24 January and 
25 January to take out further advances on this loan. So Mr Q seems  to have needed to top 
up these loans quite  shortly after borrowing them
Considering that Mr Q seemed to have been  unable to repay loan 4 on time, and the highest 
repayments on loans  5a and 5b were over £1,000  a month, I think  QuickQuid by now, 
shouldve been  building a full picture  of Mr Qs financial circumstances  and verifying the 
information it was given.  
Had it done so, it wouldve  seen that when  Mr Q applied for loans 5a and 5b, he was still 
borrowing large sums of money on a regular basis from other short-term lenders, and that 
with new highest  instalments  of £1,185 and £1,373  to QuickQuid, he would  not be able to 
commit to these repayments, along with the other short term credit commitments  he had at 
this time. So again,  I dont  think  it was responsible of QuickQuid to have agreed to these 
advances.
Ref: DRN61834475There was a gap of around  eight months  between  Mr Q settling loan 5, and when he took 
out loan 6. So Ive thought about whether this gap constituted a break in the chain of 
lending, which if it did, may have led me to conclude that QuickQuids checks  didnt need to 
be as thorough as would be needed if a continuous lending  pattern had continued.   
However I can see that in the middle  of this gap, while  Mr Q didnt take out further finance 
with QuickQuid, he did make a further  application  in July 2017.  So he doesnt seem to have  
freed himself from the need to take out additional  lending at this point. So for this reason I 
think QuickQuid shouldve  still continued  with thorough checks  of Mr Qs financial 
circumstances, especially as he was now applying for a loan of £1,200, his highest yet. 
Had it done so, it wouldve  seen that in the month leading up to taking out loan 6, Mr Q had 
borrowed around £4,700 from other short-term lenders, which was almost the same amount 
he was earning  a month. It wouldve also seen that in addition to this, he was spending large  
amounts of money  towards online gambling and gaming sites, and his total outgoings due 
were already  in excess of his income, and he was therefore in no position to agree to any 
further monthly financial commitments at this time. So I think had QuickQuid carried out 
proportionate checks, it would not have agreed  to loan 6. 
Loan 7 was taken out on the same  day loan 6 was settled, and his circumstances had not 
changed during this short period of time.  So, for the same reasons I think  QuickQuid should 
not have agreed  to loan 6, I also think it was wrong  to have approved  loan 7, and wouldnt 
have done so, had it carried out a full review of his circumstances at this time. 
2. Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mr Qs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive not gone onto assess the overall pattern  of lending at this stage, because I dont need 
to, as I already  think the loans in question  should not have been agreed.
3. Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr Q in some 
other way.  
In summary,  I dont think QuickQuid shouldve  agreed to loans 2a  3a and loans 5a - 7, and 
I think Mr Qs lost out as a result. 
what QuickQuid  needs to do to put things right
refund  the interest and charges Mr Q paid on loans 2a - 3a and loans 5a  7.
 
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  a year from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about these loans from Mr Qs credit  file;
Ref: DRN61834476*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Qs complaint in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6183447