K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Silver packaged bank 
account in 2016. Hes used a Claims Management Company (CMC) to make this 
complaint. 
background
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already and they did not think that the 
Silver account was mis-sold. Mr Ss representative  did not agree with this and therefore  this 
complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ss complaint.  Having done  so, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Silver 
account to Mr S. Id like to explain why I think thats the case.  
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr S was given a fair choice to take out the Silver 
account. I can see that Mr S had held a free account for a number of years with Lloyds prior 
to this upgrade,  so I think that he would have  been  reasonably aware that Lloyds  did free 
accounts and they were  an option for him.
Mr Ss representative has said that he took out the account in order  to improve  his credit  
score and get a loan.  I note that this was not part of his initial  complaint and was only 
mentioned after our assessment. I think that if this was the reason that Mr S thought  his 
account was mis-sold  I would have expected him to mention this earlier.  In any event,  I cant  
see any declined applications  for credit prior to the upgrade and while he did take out a loan 
this was 6 months  after the Silver account  had been  sold to him. So taking everything into 
consideration I do not think  that its likely that this was the reason he took out the account.
I can see that Mr Ss representative  has said that Mr S did not drive and did not own a 
mobile phone but he did travel  in Europe. I can see transactions which suggest that Mr S did 
have a mobile phone and I can see that he registered a handset around the time of the sale. 
And given  that he could  also use the travel insurance, I think that Mr S took out the account  
as he was interested in the benefits. I therefore  think that Mr S had a fair choice when he 
took out the account.
Lloyds and Mr S have said that the Silver account was recommended to Mr S. Due to this 
Lloyds had to ensure  that the account was right for him. In this instance the major benefits 
that the account came with were European  travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile 
phone insurance.  As I have said above,  Mr S registered a mobile handset  and I think  that he 
couldve found the travel  insurance benefit useful.  This is the cheapest  account  that was 
available through Lloyds  that had these benefits.  Therefore, I dont  think  that Lloyds 
recommendation was inappropriate.
I accept that Mr S may not have  been  told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with, but I cannot see anything specific  that he was not told that I think 
wouldve altered  his decision to take out the account. 
Ref: DRN63236772Mr S may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe he hasnt benefitted from the account as 
much he had hoped and expected when he initially took it out. And given what he may have 
read and heard about packaged  accounts, I can understand why he might  believe this 
account was mis-sold.  But I dont  think he was misled into taking it. So I want to reassure Mr 
S that having  looked at everything provided  and thought about what hes said, I dont  think 
Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6323677