K820x#14complaint
Mr B, represented by Mr W, has made  a number  of complaints arising from a mortgage he 
used to have with Mortgages Plc.
the mortgage was mis-sold;
Mortgages Plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI);
after the property  was taken into possession, Mortgages Plc sold it for less than it 
was worth;
Mortgages Plc has acted unreasonably by not contacting Mr B about an alleged  
shortfall debt until four years  after the property  was sold;
Mr W is unhappy at the way Mortgages Plc has dealt with the complaint.
To resolve  the complaint  Mr B wants Mortgages  Plc to waive  the shortfall debt, provide a full 
explanation of the huge loss, apologise  and withdraw all threats of legal action.
background
In 2006, acting on the advice of his financial adviser, Mr B took out a mortgage with 
Mortgages Plc. Mr B was buying a new-build  property costing £136,995. He borrowed 
£130,145 from Mortgages Plc on an interest-only basis over a term of 25 years. The first two 
years of the mortgage  were at a fixed rate of interest of 6.30%, and after that the mortgage 
moved onto a variable  rate of 3.45%  above Bank  of England Base  Rate. The initial  monthly 
repayments were £683.26.
Unfortunately the mortgage fell into arrears and on 2 October  2013  a possession order  was 
made, along with a money judgment  for the outstanding balance of the loan, which was then 
£137,164.82.
The property was sold by Mortgages Plc as mortgagee in possession  on 11 February  2014.  
The sale price was £84,950.
In 2017 Mortgages Plc contacted Mr B about the shortfall debt. It wrote him several  letters 
and spoke to him in October 2017  about the debt. Mr B instructed Mr W to deal with the 
matter for him.
On Mr Bs behalf, Mr W complained to Mortgages Plc about mis-sale  of the mortgage and 
PPI, about the sale of the property and about the shortfall debt. Mortgages  Plc didnt uphold 
the complaint  so Mr W brought it to us.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt  think it should be upheld. He explained to 
Mr W that the sale of the mortgage and PPI (if there  was, in fact, any PPI, which he didnt 
think there was) would  need to be raised with the broker who advised  Mr B in 2006. He also 
explained that complaint-handling didnt fall within the scope  of regulated  activities,  which  
meant it wasnt something we could  consider.  
As far as the sale of the property was concerned, the adjudicator  was satisfied that 
Mortgages Plc had properly marketed and sold the property. He didnt  think  that part of the 
complaint should  be upheld.  He was also satisfied that Mortgages Plc hadnt done anything  
wrong in relation to contacting Mr B about the shortfall debt.
Ref: DRN62241442Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. He asked  for an ombudsmans  review. I 
summarise below the main points  of his arguments:
mis-sale of the mortgage: Mr W doesnt agree that the broker  is wholly responsible  for the 
advice given to Mr B to take out the mortgage. Mortgages Plc provided a 95% interest-only 
mortgage to a nave,  financially unsophisticated man on limited earnings  and has profited by 
imposing charges and interest to the account. The collapse in the housing market resulted in 
Mr B suffering a loss and it would only be fair and reasonable for Mortgages Plc to 
compensate Mr B accordingly  by whatever means  is open to the ombudsman to do so.
PPI complaint: A complaint has now been made to the business in question  but Mr W is 
unhappy at the delay  in Mortgages Plc providing him with the information he needed to start 
a claim for mis-sold  PPI. This added to the paperwork and time he had to spend on it.
sale of the property: Mr W says that it may well be that the housing  market was difficult at 
the relevant time, but questions whether it was the right move to sell the property rather than 
rent it out and then perhaps  sell it as an income-generating investment, either in 2014 or at a 
later time when the market had improved.
pursuit of the shortfall debt: Mr W doesnt agree with the adjudicator that Mortgages  Plc did 
nothing wrong. He questions why Mortgages  Plc didnt  act immediately as soon as the loss 
crystallised. If it had done so, Mr B had the option to wipe the slate  clean by declaring  
himself bankrupt.  But by keeping quiet for four years and then reactivating the matter, 
Mortgages Plc has delayed Mr Bs chances  of a financial reconstruction by at least  four 
years, as well as causing him additional  stress.
Mr W has explained that, after Mr Bs girlfriend became pregnant,  Mr B moved out of the 
property and rented it. He used the rental income  to pay rent on a property  he and his 
girlfriend moved into rather  than paying the mortgage. But Mr W considers Mortgages Plc 
was negligent  because it failed to act quickly enough  to mitigate its loss or to give advice to 
Mr B about  his predicament. 
Mr W says Mr B had no money for legal advice when the property was repossessed in 2013.  
Mr B spoke to a financial adviser who told him the property wouldnt recover from the 
negative equity for at least  six years. And although  Mr B disclosed to Mortgages plc that he 
was renting out the property, Mr W reiterates that Mr B took this step in an effort to pay the 
rent on the other property he was living in, as this was a priority for him.
Mr W questions  why Mortgages  Plc waited four years to reactivate the matter.  He says there  
has been major maladministration which he considers would justify  a payment of 
substantial compensation to Mr B, as well as a waiver of the shortfall debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. 
Ill start by saying that the way in which Mortgages  Plc deals with complaints isnt something  
Im able to consider. Its not a regulated  activity.  So although  I note Mr Ws dissatisfaction  at 
how Mortgages Plc has handled  the complaint, including  its requirement for third party 
Ref: DRN62241443authority and the need for third parties to answer security  questions on telephone  calls, I 
wont be commenting on this.
mortgage mis-sale: The mortgage  was sold by a third party, which  gave advice to Mr B 
independent of Mortgages Plc. Mr B should  contact that business if he thinks the advice 
given in 2006 was unsuitable.
Mr W has suggested that the lending was irresponsible,  so Ive looked at the account  history. 
The mortgage completed on 29 December 2006. In July 2007 Mr B contacted Mortgages Plc 
and asked for a further advance. This was declined due to the loan-to-value  ratio. So it 
seems that within a few months of taking out the mortgage, rather  than struggling  with it, 
Mr B wanted  to borrow more money.
The account  history  shows  that payments were maintained,  save  for a few intermittent 
missed payments, for the first five years of the mortgage. Given this, it is difficult  to conclude 
that the lending in 2006 was unaffordable. Mr B made repayments for five years without any 
difficulty.
It wasnt until 2012 that the mortgage fell into arrears. This was after the fixed rate of 6.30%  
had expired (in 2008) and the mortgage had gone  onto a variable  rate of 3.45% above  Bank  
of England Base Rate. In 2012 Bank of England Base Rate was 0.5%, so the interest rate on 
the mortgage was 3.95% and the monthly repayments had fallen from almost £690 (on the 
previous fixed rate) to about £430. 
Mortgages Plcs notes  show that in July 2012  it first became  aware that the property was 
being rented  out. Mr W has explained  that Mr B decided  to use the rental income from the 
tenants to pay for another property, rather than to service the mortgage.  So its clear  that the 
reason the mortgage fell into arrears wasnt as a result Mortgages Plc lending  Mr B the 
money to buy the property  in 2006. Instead the arrears arose as a direct result of Mr Bs 
conscious decision to stop paying  the mortgage  in 2012. In the circumstances, Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
PPI mis-sale:  As  the adjudicator explained,  we have a separate  area of our business which 
deals with PPI complaints. The mortgage  offer from December 2006 doesnt show any PPI 
or other insurance being  sold alongside  the mortgage, but I understand Mr B, through Mr W, 
has now made a claim about  mis-sold PPI to Mortgages Plc. If the claim to Mortgages Plc 
about mis-sold PPI isnt resolved  to Mr Bs satisfaction, he is free to complain to us about it.
sale of the property : Mr B bought  the property when prices were buoyant. At the time, no-
one could have  predicted the financial crisis which began about  a year later and which  
resulted in a fall in property prices. Im glad to note that Mr W acknowledges that the fall in 
the market wasnt  the responsibility of Mortgages Plc.
Im satisfied Mortgages Plc was entitled to sell the property quickly  after it was taken into 
possession. It did so after having it properly valued,  with comparables of similar properties. I 
note these showed properties  in the same area as Mr Bs flat which had been  sold within a 
few months of the sale of his flat for substantially less than the £84,950 achieved  for his 
property  between  £65,000 and £79,950.
Mortgages Plc appropriately  marketed the property and Im satisfied the price achieved,  
given market conditions,  was not unrealistic   particularly when compared with other 
properties in the same block which  sold at around the same time.
Ref: DRN62241444Ive noted what  Mr W has said Mortgages  Plc should, in his opinion, have done after it took 
possession of the property. Hes suggested  Mortgages Plc should have rented out the 
property rather than sell it at a shortfall, waiting until the market had once again recovered  
before selling the property as a tenanted investment.
Mortgages Plc isnt in the business of property lettings and was under no obligation to rent 
out the property.  Theres  also no requirement for a mortgage lender to leave a property 
unsold in the hope that a higher price  might be achieved at some point in the future. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied Mortgages Plc did nothing wrong in the way it dealt with the sale 
of the property. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
shortfall debt: Mr W is unhappy that Mortgages Plc took four years  to contact Mr B about 
the shortfall debt (which  is about £60,000). But under Council of Mortgage  Lenders (now part 
of UK Finance) guidelines, Mortgages  Plc has six years  from the date the shortfall arises to 
contact Mr B about repayment of the debt.  Id have expected Mr W, as a professional 
adviser, to be aware of the time limits that apply to the recovery  of mortgage shortfall debts. 
Its information thats in the public domain. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Mortgages Plc has done  anything wrong in 
contacting Mr B about repaying the debt before the six-year time limit expired. Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
I appreciate that hearing from Mortgages Plc about the shortfall debt four years after the 
property was sold came as a shock to Mr B. I would suggest that he speaks to someone 
qualified to give him free debt advice about this  such as Shelter, StepChange or Citizens  
Advice. We can provide  Mr B with contact details  for those agencies,  if hed like us to do so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6224144