K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the maturity value of his Zurich Assurance Ltd (formally Eagle Star Life 
Assurance Company  Limited) mortgage endowment  policy.
 
background
Mr D took out this with-profits mortgage  endowment  policy  in August 1991. It had a basic  
sum assured of £9,720  and a death benefit (and target amount) of £36,000.  It matured in 
August 2016 for just over £19,000.
Mr D complained to Zurich in 2018  saying hed found a letter from his mortgage lender 
saying it would only lend the full mortgage  amount required subject to a guarantee being  
taken out with Eagle Star.
Our investigator told Mr D that the maturity value couldnt be guaranteed as it was linked to 
the policy performance, and that the guarantee mentioned by the mortgage lender was a 
mortgage indemnity  guarantee  which is a completely different type of policy.  Mr D didnt 
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Ill deal with Mr Ds comment that he feels the policy  was mis-sold  as he was led to 
believe hed receive the target amount and more. This policy  was sold by an independent 
financial adviser (IFA) and so the responsibility  for the suitability  of the advice  falls with that 
business, not Zurich. None  of the available evidence  suggests the IFA was an agent of 
Zurich at the time; the businesses in question just didnt have that relationship. The IFA 
could have discussed and recommended policies from other providers; the fact it 
recommended a Zurich  policy over any other  providers policies didnt make it Zurichs  agent.
There was no regulatory requirement for Zurich to replicate the role of the adviser and 
separately ensure  the advice was suitable  and that Mr D was aware of the risks. So the fact 
it may not have done so isnt something I can blame it for as it simply didnt have to. Mr D 
would need to pursue any complaint that he may have  about the sale of the policy with the 
IFA responsible.
Mr D has provided a copy of his original mortgage offer as he feels a section entitled  
Additional Security indicates the endowment policy had a guarantee. Whilst I can 
understand Mr Ds confusion, thats not what that section of the mortgage offer is referring  
to. The section in question relates  to what was often called a Mortgage Indemnity Guarantee 
(MIG) at that time, something which later became more commonly  known as a Higher  
Lending Charge. 
This was an insurance  policy lenders would often  insist a customer  paid for if they wanted to 
borrow a high percentage of the value of their property, and it was intended  to protect  the 
lender if the house had to be repossessed and sold for less than the outstanding mortgage. 
As I said,  I can understand Mr Ds confusion  as the MIG was co-incidentally provided by a 
sister company (Eagle  Star Insurance Company Limited)  of the mortgage endowment policy  
Ref: DRN68736982provider (Eagle Star Life Assurance Company Limited). But the two policies were for 
completely different things and werent  linked. 
We dont regulate financial firms,  so I cant tell Zurich how to run its business; thats a matter 
for the Financial Conduct Authority. I can only uphold this complaint if I think  its the fair and 
reasonable to do so, which will usually mean finding  that Zurich  has done something  wrong.  
I dont think it has and Ill explain why.
Mr D and Zurich entered  into a contract. Mr D agreed to pay a monthly premium and Zurich  
agreed to provide life cover during the term. It also agreed to provide an investment which, if 
anticipated growth rates were met, would reach a target amount.
This is where the problem has arisen. The hoped-for  growth  rates havent been  reached  - far 
from it - but they were never  guaranteed.  A shortfall  was always possible.  Of course,  no-one  
thought that would happen at the time but it doesnt  change the nature  of the contract. 
Mr D was sent annual  statements  which showed the rate at which  the policy  was growing. 
So Im satisfied Zurich  has kept him informed over the years, rather than it being a surprise  
when the policy came to mature  in 2016.
With hindsight Zurich  might have made different  investment decisions. I dont know. Its 
unlikely to have  been in the interests of the fund managers to perform badly and Im sure 
Zurich would have  wanted the fund to do as well as possible. I cant  use hindsight  in making 
a decision. The fund performance  has been disappointing but thats not unique to this fund 
or this business. Whilst other funds and/or businesses may have performed better, that 
doesnt mean Zurich  mismanaged  this fund. Investment conditions changed and many 
policies didnt reach their target amounts. I havent seen anything to persuade me that Zurich 
mismanaged the fund or acted negligently.
The performance was disappointing and I can well understand why Mr D is unhappy about 
that. But Im not persuaded Zurich  did anything wrong or that it would otherwise be fair 
and/or reasonable for me to uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 23 May 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6873698