K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that he received unsuitable investment advice from an appointed  
representative (AR) of Quilter Financial  Services Ltd.  He  says he was advised to switch his 
personal pension  to a self invested personal pension  (SIPP) and to then invest  in products 
offered by Sustainable Growth Group (SGG) and Global Forestry.
At the time of the events being  complained about the firm was known as Intrinsic  Financial  
Planning.  I will refer to the firm as Intrinsic  in the rest of this decision. 
background
Mr Ss solicitor  complained about the advice  in 2013.  It said that Mr S had been unsuitably  
advised by the AR to both switch  a personal pension  to the SIPP and invest  in SGG.  At this 
point the Global Forestry  investment had not failed and so wasnt  included in the complaint.  
This investment has now also failed.  
Intrinsic rejected the complaint  on the basis that it is not responsible for any advice given.  It 
said it did not hold any record  of advice given to Mr S by a registered individual of Intrinsic.   
It said:  
The recommendation was not made  by an authorised member of the AR.
The SGG investment  was not something for which Intrinsic was responsible  and 
therefore fell outside this services jurisdiction.
Intrinsic also said that it did not receive any fees or commission relating to 
investments into this fund.
Any employees of the AR would only have been  involved as an agent or introducer.
Intrinsic also referred to Section 9 of its compliance manual.  This required any 
pension switching advice to be given by a suitably qualified adviser.  Mr  C, the 
employee who Mr S said had advised him, wasnt qualified.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 July 2019.  In  this I said the following:
I have considered all the evidence in order to decide whether this service can consider 
Mr Ss complaint. I will consider our jurisdiction in three steps:
What is the complaint?
What if any regulated activities is Mr S complaining  about?
Is Intrinsic  responsible?
Mr Ss solicitor  has set out his complaint in the following  terms in a letter to Intrinsic of 
25 June 2013:
Our client was advised by you to transfer  their pension savings into a SIPP.  Your  adviser 
was fully aware that our client was considering investing in SGG once the pension  transfer to
the SIPP was complete.  Indeed, the whole process  was directed toward this outcome.
We have considered papers provided to us by our client  and conclude the following:
There is no (or no adequate) assessment of the suitability  of the SGG investment.
There is no (or no adequate) assessment of the risks of the SGG investment.
If the advice were suitable (which we believe it is not) the fund is over-exposed to this 
type of investment in any event.
Ref: DRN67875572The benefits of the ceding scheme have not been replaced.
The creation  of the SIPP was only necessary to facilitate the SGG investment.
Charges (upon exit from the former scheme, and upon entry into the SIPP and then 
upon entry  to the new investment) have  been  incurred unnecessarily upon transfer.
It is our view that our client has suffered the following  losses:
1. Loss of benefits on the pension transfer (including any exit penalties incurred)
2. Loss due to your negligent advice in investing the SIPP monies with SGG
3. The costs of establishing the SIPP and commissions paid in relation to the SGG 
investment.
The complaint that has been made  is that Mr S was advised to switch  his personal pension  
to a SIPP.  The purpose of the transfer was to enable the investment in the SGG product.  
The solicitor  has also said that negligent advice to invest the SIPP monies in SGG was also 
given.  The above  is a templated letter of complaint and does not give any detail of precisely 
what happened in Mr Ss case.    
At the time the complaint was made the Global Forestry investment had not failed and so it 
was not specifically mentioned in the complaint.   
A personal  pension scheme is a specified investment as per article 82 of the Regulated 
Activities Order 2001 (RAO).  A SIPP is a specified investment as per article 82 of the RAO.  
Advice to switch from a personal pension to a SIPP would  be regulated investment advice as 
per article  53 of the RAO.
There is not a lot of information available about  the SGG or Global Forestry investments  but 
based on the evidence I have seen  it seems likely they were unregulated collective 
investment schemes.   A collective investment scheme is a specified investment as per 
article 81 of the RAO.   Advice about a collective investment  scheme would also be regulated 
investment advice (article  53 of the RAO).     
Whether advice was given and exactly what happened to bring about the pension  switch and 
the underlying  SIPP  investments is disputed.  Before establishing what, if any, responsibility 
Intrinsic has for the actions of its AR I will first make  various findings about what actually 
happened.
When Mr S first brought his complaint to this service  he filled in a questionnaire.  He was 
asked when and how he first became aware  of the Sustainable  Growth  Fund.  He said:
I went to a presentation at (the ARs) offices about 8 months prior to investing.   
He was also asked  if anyone had advised  him to make the investment and if so, who was it 
and who did they say they were  working for.  In reply Mr S said:
Not advised I was told I was daft if not to and due diligence had been done by [Mr C] and 
the trustees.
In a later email to this service Mr S said that he had been advised by Mr C although he didnt 
provide any further  detail.
Ref: DRN67875573After Mr S had received  the adjudicators assessment he made the following additional  
comment:
Just to confirm I remembered the other day that when I went down to [the ARs] office in 
Glasgow to sign the paperwork for the pension transfer and investment. [Mr C] said he was 
not authorised  to do the pension transfer but [Mr M  another adviser at the AR] was 
because it was regulated and would  do the transfer for him and invest  the fund in the 
investments.
Mr M was an adviser for the AR who was involved in pension  switches  and SGG/Global 
Forestry investment for a significant number of clients.  Mr  M was suitably qualified to give 
pension advice.   
If advice was given  it was given in an informal way with none of the documentation normally 
associated with regulated financial advice.  The statements were made several years after 
the events being recalled.  In my view this means  they should be treated with caution.   
Whilst Mr S originally  said he wasnt advised  in the same comment he said he was told he 
was daft if he didnt  go ahead with the investment.  This strongly  suggests  that the adviser 
persuaded Mr S to go ahead with the investment.  
PERG 8.28.2 contains  the following guidance  on whether regulated advice has been given:
Regulated advice  includes any communication  with the customer  which,  in the particular 
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information  and is objectively  
likely to influence the customers decision whether  or not to buy or sell. 
It also adds:
A key to the giving of advice is that the information:
is either accompanied by comment or value  judgment on the relevance of that information  to 
the customers investment  decision..;  
In my view Mr Ss recollection of what he was told would  amount to the giving of regulated 
investment advice.  I consider that what Mr C said would be likely to influence  his decision 
and would be considered a value  judgement  about the proposed  investment.   My 
provisional conclusion  therefore is that Mr S was advised by Mr C to transfer his personal 
pension to a SIPP for the purpose of investing  in SGG and GFI products.
The statement  made by Mr S only refers to Mr M in the context of completing the paperwork  
rather than the giving  of any advice.  On  the assumption that any advice would have been 
given at an earlier date,  it does not explicitly say that Mr M advised him  only that he would 
do the transfer and invest the funds. However,  this is not consistent with the paperwork 
provided by the SIPP  operator which shows that it was Mr C who arranged  the pension 
switch.  
Is Intrinsic responsible for the SIPP advice given by the AR?
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which 
the firmis responsible (including business  of any appointed representative  or agent 
for which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)". 
Ref: DRN67875574So a principal is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed 
representative in relation  to the business  it has accepted responsibility for.
Appointed representatives are not employees of the principal firm.  They  are independent  
and might not act only for the principal firm.  Sometimes those who operate  as appointed 
representatives operate other businesses also.   So sometimes it is clear that a person who 
happens to be an appointed representative does something on his own account (or in some  
other capacity) rather than as business  for the principal.
So in the case  of Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc [1999] Lloyds Re P.N 593 a principal 
(under the s.44 Financial  Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were  
held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for.  In 
that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares  in and lend money  to the 
appointed representative itself. 
Another example  is in the case of Frederick  v Positive Solutions  [2018] EWCA Civ 431.  That  
case concerns agency rather  than s.39 appointed representative issues. Nevertheless  the 
case gives an example  of a person having  a connection with a regulated  business and doing  
something on their own account.  In  that case the person who was an agent for 
Positive Solutions (for some purposes)  was held to be engaging in a recognisably 
independent business of his own  a property  investment scheme.    
 
Mr M and Mr C operated a separate non regulated  business.  In the case of other 
consumers there is evidence that suggests advice about SGG and GFI was given  by this 
firm.  In the case of Mr Ss complaint I have seen  no evidence of any involvement of the 
unregulated firm.
what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important  to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives acting  
in their capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation of statute not 
common law agency.
At the relevant time s.39 of FSMA said:
 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed , and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  (my emphasis)
Ref: DRN67875575So under s.39 the principal (Intrinsic) is required to accept responsibly  for that business  
which is a reference  back to business of a prescribed description.
However the case Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 makes it clear  that the 
words part of in s.39 allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the 
generic business of a prescribed description.  I will first deal with the meaning prescribed 
business and before dealing with the part of point  
what does prescribed mean here?
The interpretation section,  s. 417 FSMA, says that where not otherwise defined,  prescribed 
means prescribed in regulations  made  by the Treasury.  Such regulations  have been  made   
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  Regulations 2001 
(as amended from time to time).  Regulation 2 covers descriptions of business  for which  
appointed representatives are exempt.  
what was prescribed  business at the relevant time?
At that the time of the advice the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (Appointed  
Representatives) Regulations 2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business for which appointed representatives  are exempt

(a)an activity  of the kind specified by article 25 [of the RAO] (arranging deals in 
investments) where the arrangements are for or with a view to transactions relating to 
securities or relevant  investment.
(b)
(c)an activity  of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on investments)
(d)an activity  of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing to carry on 
activities), so far as relevant to an activity  falling  within subsection(a) [or] (c) 
is prescribed  for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act (exemption  of 
appointed representatives).
So prescribed business is business which is defined at a high level.   It means business in 
the sense of certain regulated activities.  It does  not mean business in any greater level or 
particularity.  So it does  not mean  business in the sense of an individual transaction.
So in this case it means, say, advising on investments  (under article  53 RAO).  It does not 
mean advising Mr S on particular investments. 
As I have said, Intrinsic was authorised to carry out the above regulated activities  in this 
case.
What was the prescribed business Intrinsic  accepted responsibility  for in this case?
The s.39 Agreement between Intrinsic and the AR expressly incorporated the compliance 
manual. The agreement itself said:
4.1 The Member is an Appointed  Representative of Intrinsic  for the purpose only of carrying 
on the Business.
Business was defined  as: 
Ref: DRN67875576the business  of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set out in this 
Agreement
The compliance manual was more  helpful on this point.  It included:
the regulated activities for which Intrinsic have approval  are as follows:
a)arranging (bringing about) deals  in;
b)making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)advising on; or
d)agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)  (c)
in relation to designated  investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-related  
general insurance
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, Members can therefore carry  out those activities 
detailed above (dependent  on any restrictions inherent in your contract),  these are referred  to 
as the Scope of Permissions  
So the prescribed business Intrinsic permitted the AR to carry on was arranging deals, 
advising on investments  (and mortgages  but that is not relevant here)  and agreeing to 
arrange deals  and advise on investments.   Intrinsic accepted  responsibility  for that business 
as follows: 
6. INTRINSICS OBLIGATIONS
Intrinsic agrees with the Member:
6.1 Responsibility
To accept regulatory responsibility for such activities of the Member as may be from time to 
time expressly authorised  under the terms of this Agreement as required  by Section 39 of the 
Act.
So in this case Intrinsic  did authorise the AR to advise on investments, arrange deals in 
investments and agree to do both.  This was the (relevant) prescribed business Intrinsic 
authorised the AR to carry on and agreed  to accept responsibility for. 
But as I have said above, Intrinsic says it put limits on the business it accepts responsibly 
for.  In  effect it says it authorises investment advice  but only if certain conditions  are met, 
such as the adviser  passing a relevant exam, or the investment being on its approved list.  
what do the courts say about these types of restrictions?
In Ovcharenko  v Investuk,  HHJ Waksman said the following  (where  D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting.   The  judge 
said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against,  here, D2 for the activities of D1 in 
the way I have described.  
Then the judge  said:
Ref: DRN6787557733  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out regulated 
activities, so that they have  a long stop liability target which is the party which  granted  
permission to the authorised  representative in the first place.  In my judgment,  section 39(3) is 
a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more and no less than enable the 
claimant, without law, to render the second defendant liable where there have been defaults  
on the part of the authorised  representative in the carrying out of the business and which 
responsibility had been accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 to 
D2 that it will not do anything outside  clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about the 
scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants  under section 39(3). The same  point can be made 
in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in 
breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgement and the following description of the clause]  which limits the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is a 
promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen  because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives a 
right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel for D2] 
was correct, it would follow that any time there  was any default on the part of an authorised 
representative, for example,  by being in breach of COBS,  that very default  will automatically 
take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
agreement but will take D2 outside the scope of section  39(3) , in which  case its purpose as a 
failsafe protection for the client will be rendered  nugatory; that is an impossible construction  
and I reject it. 
The judge  in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) 
agreed with the above.  In that case the network  principal  had argued  that it was not 
responsible for advice  to invest in an investment in which  it did not authorise the appointed 
representative to deal.  The judge said: 
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, express 
or implied, to act as he did on Tenets behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet as having  such  
authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So it follows  that the courts think that at least some conditions on the authority given to an 
appointed representative in a s.39 agreement only apply as between the parties  only.  Does 
that mean all terms in the contract apply in that way?  The  answer to that question  is no 
because of the words  part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases I have referred to above  really considered this point.  But  it was dealt with 
in the most recent case on the subject Anderson v Sense Network [2018]  EWHC 2834.  In 
that case the judge, Mr Justice  Jacobs, said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law,  that indicates 
that the business  for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
Ref: DRN67875578the contract, but by reference  to the authorisations granted to the principal which  are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the 
ARs actual authority
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered  the scope of Clause  3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly 
encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised  representative agreement": see 
paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility  had been  accepted 
encompasses the services  set out in Clause 3 of the authorised  representative agreement".  
Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the AR agreement which  
imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an 
obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions 
were matters which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect 
liability under s.39.
138. Most recently,  in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied  the decisions in 
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability 
under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency": see 
paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice  on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice  on regulated 
investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope  of section 39, and the question  of the business  for 
which the principal has accepted  responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of 
agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit  in the decision that if the advice  on 
the unregulated investments  had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR 
was authorised to give, then there would  have  been  no liability under  section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in connection with 
that scheme, were  well beyond the scope of the "business"  for which Sense accepted 
responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious argument that the activities 
of MFSS and Mr. Grieg in relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising 
upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business  of a financial adviser  
to operate a scheme for taking deposits from clients. As the Claimants expert,  Mr. Morrey, 
said: "operating the scheme, so having  the monies  under your control, clearly is not the work 
of a financial adviser". Mr. Ingrams evidence  was that he knew  that a firm of financial 
advisers should not be involved  with the scheme, including because the firm was not allowed  
to handle client money  and that the scheme was business of a kind that a properly regulated 
firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram was referring  to the express prohibitions in 
clause 5.3.6 and 5.3.7 against MFSS accepting or holding or handling client money.
Ref: DRN67875579what does all this mean?
All this means a principal is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed 
representative acting  within  their actual authority.  It also means that sometimes  a principal 
is responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority.  And 
sometimes a principal  is not responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond 
their actual authority.   And the test in the Anderson v Sense Network judgment is that the 
principal is responsible when the act or omission  is sufficiently closely connected to the 
activities for which the actual authority was given.   
my view  about  the restrictions in the appointed  representative agreement in this case:
advice restricted to approved  products
The Intrinsic  Compliance  Manual  includes  the following:
2.1 Intrinsics Scope  of Permission
Intrinsic is authorised by the FSA to carry out certain activities.   This is referred  to as Part IV 
permission.  All regulated firms have to obtain a permission, but the scope of their particular  
permission may include one of several regulated activities depending  on the business of the 
firm.  
The regulated activities for which Intrinsic has approval is as follows:
a)Arranging (brining about) deals  in;
b)Making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)Advising on; and
d)Agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)-(c)
in relation to designated  investments
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry  on those  activities 
detailed above (dependent  upon any restrictions inherent in your contract); these  are referred 
to as the Scope of Permissions.
All firms regulated by FSA entered the depolarised  regime on 1 June 2005.   As an appointed 
representative of Intrinsic you will be restricted to the distribution channels and product 
ranges chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited number  of companies  in respect of 
Designated Investment business, commonly  referred to as Multi-tie
2.4 Restricted activities
Intricnsics scope of permission does not allow appointed representatives or advisers to carry 
out certain areas of business.  Below  we detail areas where restrictions apply.
2.4.1 Non-Advised Business
Intrinsic believes that advice is always  necessary,  and our sales processes  have been 
developed bearing this in mind.  Although there is scope within the FSA rules  to operate 
certain non-advised  processes, Intrinsic have chosen not to take advantage of this.
2.4.2 Products requiring  additional authorisation.
As an appointed representative firm or adviser  with Intrinsic there are some restrictions on 
activities relating  to certain products.  Details  of these can be found  in the Licensing  section.
Ref: DRN6787557102.4.3 Acting  as Trustee, Power of attorney, or Executor of a Will
You are prohibited from acting for your client as Trustee; Power  of Attorney; or Executor of a 
Will
2.4.4 Dual Authorisation
You are not permitted to have dual authorisation and be directly by the FSA as well as 
through Intrinsic
2.4.5 Dealing with Overseas Clients

8.6 The Sales Process
The advice process is substantially the same for all areas of FCA regulation.  There  are slight 
differences between business areas.  Please refer to guidance  in the Designated Investment, 
Mortgage and Pure Protection and General Insurance Documents for details of the specific 
process requirement for these business areas:
Contacting the client or potential client;
Providing specified information at the outset;
Undertaking  a Know your client  exercise, usually  involving some form of fact find;
Research to recommend  a product which is suited to the clients  needs at that time;
A recommendation (which the client may reject and a subsequent recommendation 
may be made);
Completion of the application form as a sale is made.
8.6.1 Execution only
An execution  only case is one where the client requires no advice as they have already 
decided on the exact contract they require.
Intrinsic firmly believe that full advice should be given to clients  in all circumstances.  
However, if you do come across a client who matches the above circumstances you should 
seek approval  of Compliance before proceeding with business on that basis.
The above  helps to explain the context  of the s.39 agreement between Intrinsic  and the AR.   
Some points to note are that Intrinsic has permission to advise on all investments but has 
chosen to offer products  from a limited range.  And the AR is restricted to the product range 
chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsics ARs are however obliged to give advice and may not just sell on an execution  only 
basis.  Advice involves a process that includes getting to know  the clients financial situation  
in order to give suitable advice.  And in turn this means that sometimes  advice involves the 
recommendation to end one investment in order to start another.
This is in effect what has happened in this complaint  the recommendation to end the 
existing personal  pension and to replace it with a Berkley Burke  SIPP  and then make 
investments within  the SIPP.  Mr S switched an Aegon  personal pension to the Berkley  
Burke SIPP.  I understand that Aegon was an Intrinsic approved pension plan but that the 
Berkeley Burke SIPP and the SGG and GFI investments were not.  As Aegon was an 
authorised provider any advice given about this product would  be the responsibility of 
Intrinsic.   
Ref: DRN678755711Where two pieces of advice are closely connected,  in effect they form a single piece  of 
advice.  If one element  of the advice is the responsibility of the principal then the whole 
advice is.  This has been made clear in the recent court case of Financial Ombudsman 
Service v TennetConnect referred to earlier.  In this case the pension  switch advice and the 
SGG/GFI advice form a single piece  of advice.  Because one element of the advice (the 
Aegon advice) is the responsibility of Intrinsic then it becomes responsible  for the whole of 
the advice.  
special requirements  for pension transfers
The Intrinsic  Compliance  Manual  says that pension  switching should  be treated in the 
same way as pension transfers.   Advice  to move  from a personal pension to a SIPP is a 
pension switch according to the regulators rules.  If the advice is to transfer from an 
occupational pension to a SIPP, thats  a pension transfer according to regulators rules.  But 
according to Intrinsics Compliance Manual  both should be treated as pension  transfers.
In the Compliance  Manual the adviser is required to pass Intrinsics pensions  transfer  test 
and be G60 qualified before advising on (what Intrinsic calls) pension transfers.  It is only a 
regulatory requirement for an adviser to be G60 qualified in respect of pension  transfers  
which is not the transaction Mr S entered into.  The pension test and G60 qualification are 
therefore Intrinsics internal requirements not those set by the regulator.  
This type of restriction - as it applies in this case  is either  an example of certain duties 
needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered as referred  to Anderson v Sense 
Network.  Or  it is closely  analogous to such duties.  In either event as explained in the 
Anderson case a breach of such a procedural requirement does not mean  that the 
transaction in question  falls outside the scope of the relevant "business" for which  
responsibility is taken.
So if the adviser breached the requirements  in the Compliance Manual relating to the 
necessary qualifications for pensions advice in my view this factor does not mean Intrinsic is 
not responsible  for the advice given.
Mr C whilst an employee of the AR was not authorised by the FCA to give investment  
advice.  The AR is authorised to give investment advice by virtue  of the authority granted to 
it by Intrinsic  the principal.  This  authority is granted  to the AR not the individual advisers.   
When Mr C gave investment advice he was acting for the AR, this advice was an activity that 
Intrinsic authorised the AR to do.  The requirement  for advisers to be suitably qualified  is, in 
my view, another  example  of an inter se requirement i.e. between Intrinsic  and the AR.  Any 
breach of such a requirement would not mean  that the AR was acting without the authority  of 
the principal.   
I am therefore satisfied  at the advice to switch the personal pension to the SIPP  and to then 
make investments in SGG and GFI is advice  for which  Intrinsic  has accepted responsibility 
for.  
my provisional decision  on jurisdiction
For the reasons  set out above my provisional decision is that this is a complaint that this 
service can look at.
Ref: DRN678755712In the course  of my consideration of the jurisdiction aspects of the complaint I have been 
able to reach a provisional conclusion on the merits  of the complaint.  I will now therefore go 
on to explain my provisional conclusion
The merits of the complaint
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  in order  to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above, I am satisfied the AR advised Mr S to switch his personal pension to a 
SIPP and to invest the money  in the fund into SGG  and GFI products. 
There are three elements to determining suitability.  These are set out in COBS 9.2.  A 
recommended investment: 
 meets the investors investment objectives
 is such that the investor is able financially to bear any related investment  risks 
consistent with his investment  objectives;  
 is such that the investor has the necessary experience and knowledge in order  to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
Nothing was formally established at the time of the advice about the level of risk that Mr S 
was prepared to take.  However, I consider there  is enough background information 
available to make  a reasonable assessment of the level of risk that Mr S had previously 
taken.  I consider that up to the point  of the investment  Mr S would be broadly categorised  
as a medium risk investor.  Mr Ss original personal  pension was invested  in a balanced or 
medium risk fund.  I dont think it is disputed that the SGG  and GFI products would be 
considered to be a high risk investments.  On that basis the SGG and GFI products 
exceeded the level of risk that Mr S was prepared to take. 
I am also not persuaded that Mr S had the knowledge and experience to understand the 
risks involved with the SIPP (by virtue of the investment to be held within  it).  According  to 
what he has told us Mr S has very limited knowledge and experience of investments.  The 
SGG and GFI investments were unusual high risk investments and the risks associated  with 
them were  well outside what a typical retail investor would encounter.    
Because of this my provisional conclusion is that the advice to switch  to the SIPP  for the 
purpose of making  the SGG and GFI investments was unsuitable.    
fair compensation
The redress  calculation should compare  the current value of Mr Ss SIPP to the total value of 
his previously held pension, had it remained with the same providers in the same funds.
 
Intrinsic should:
 
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Ss previous pension  plan, if it had not been  
transferred to the SIPP.
 
2.Obtain the actual transfer  value of Mr Ss SIPP, including  any outstanding charges.
 
Ref: DRN6787557133.Pay an amount into Mr Ss SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
value calculated  in (1). This payment should  take account  of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges. It should  also take account of interest as set out below.
 
In addition, Intrinsic should:
 
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed  by Mr S to the SIPP.
 
5.Pay Mr S £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
 
I have explained  how Intrinsic should carry this out in further detail below.
 
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Ss previous pension  plan if it had not been  
transferred to the SIPP.
 
This should take account of any guaranteed  benefits that may have applied to the previous 
pension plan.
 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index should be used  instead. That is a reasonable proxy  for 
the type of return  that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen. 
 
2.Obtain the actual transfer  value of Mr Ss SIPP, including  any outstanding charges.
 
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. 
 
The SGG and Global Forestry investments  should be assumed to have a nil value.
 
Intrinsic may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP may receive from these investments. That undertaking should allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr S may receive from the investments and 
any eventual sums  he would be able to access from the SIPP.  Intrinsic will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
 
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ss SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
value calculated  in (1). This payment should  take account  of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges. It should  also take account of interest as set out below.
 
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, Intrinsic should  pay it as a cash 
sum to Mr S. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
 
Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of the redress 
calculation until the date of payment. Income  tax may be payable on this interest.
 
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed  by Mr S to the SIPP.
 
Ref: DRN678755714Had Intrinsic given  suitable advice, I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr S 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.
 
Ideally, Intrinsic should take over the investments to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr S back in the position he would have been in. But I dont know  how 
long that will take.  Third parties are involved and I dont have the power to tell them what to 
do. To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Intrinsic  pays Mr S an upfront  lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees). 
This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.  
There are a number of ways they may want to seek to achieve that. It will also provide Mr S 
with some confidence that he will not be subject  to further fees.
 
In my view, awarding a lump sum for an amount equivalent to five years fees strikes a fair 
balance. Its possible that the SGG and Global Forestry investments could be removed  from 
the SIPP in less than five years. But given the time it has taken to date I think  it is possible 
that it could take a number of years more  to resolve all of the issues. So using a figure of five 
years worth  of fees is an approximate and fair award  to resolve the issue now.
 
5.Pay Mr S £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
 
Mr S has been caused some distress by the loss of his pension. I think  a payment of £500  is 
appropriate compensation for that distress.
  
The firm said it didnt agree but had nothing  further  to add.  Mr  S accepted my decision and 
had nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has anything further  to add I confirm that my final decision is the same as 
the above provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I order  Quilter  Financial Services  Ltd to pay 
the redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6787557