K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that goods  she acquired  with finance provided by Caversham Finance 
Limited (trading as BrightHouse) are of unsatisfactory  quality. 
 
background
Ms C got a fridge-freezer  under a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with BrightHouse in 
September 2017. She complained about  damage  when it was delivered and BrightHouse 
supplied a replacement.  The following February  Ms C found  the replacement  wasnt working 
properly - it made a loud buzzing sound and defrosted  so the contents were ruined. She 
wanted to reject the fridge-freezer and she was unhappy  with BrightHouses  response. She 
thinks BrightHouse should provide  a full refund and compensation. 
BrightHouse says it has tried to resolve  this matter. It arranged  for an engineer to visit soon 
after Ms C reported the problem  in February  - and it was wrong of Ms C to refuse  the offer to 
repair or replace  and stop making payments. The fridge-freezer was collected  near the end 
of April and the HPA was terminated. BrightHouse says Ms C had paid a nearly £240 
towards the HPA and some product insurance,  at that stage. Shed had use of the fridge-
freezer for five months before she complained and it shouldnt have to provide  a refund. 
BrightHouse offered to pay Ms C £70 for food lost when the fridge-freezer defrosted,  as a 
goodwill gesture. 
Our investigator says the HPA comes  under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). And 
BrightHouse was obliged  to ensure the fridge freezer was of satisfactory quality when Ms C 
got it. BrightHouse  had to replace the fridge-freezer  once - due to a defect. And she 
understands why Ms C lost confidence  in the product  when the replacement  broke  down just 
a few months later. She thinks it is fair that Ms C should be allowed to reject the fridge-
freezer now and receive a full refund. And she finds it reasonable that BrightHouse should  
pay £70 compensation for food that defrosted and remove any adverse information recorded 
about the HPA from Ms C's credit  file.  
BrightHouse doesnt  agree. It says (in summary) 
the first fridge-freezer was replaced  because it had some cosmetic imperfections  - 
there was no mention  of any other issue  at the time;
the replacement  malfunctioned after a few months but this was completely unrelated  
to the reason the first one was replaced - so it should have had the chance to repair;
it responded reasonably by sending an engineer out quite quickly  and offering a 
temporary replacement while the fridge-freezer  was taken away to be assessed  at a 
service centre;
it would  have been willing to provide a like-for-like replacement - which could  have 
been an alternative brand if Ms C had lost faith in this one;
it was unreasonable for Ms C to stop making  her contractual payments  in these 
circumstances; and 
it should not have to refund rental payments or repair Ms Cs credit file. 
BrightHouse revised  the earlier offer and says it is prepared  to pay Ms C £50 for food she 
may have  lost - although it would consider increasing that if Ms C can provide evidence  
showing loss above this value. It asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN65474232my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  on 4 January 2019 - theres  an extract setting 
out my provisional findings below.  
Theres no dispute that BrightHouse was obliged  to ensure that goods  supplied under Ms 
Cs HPA were of satisfactory quality  when she received them. The quality of goods includes 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, fitness for purpose  and durability.  And 
the standard that is to be considered satisfactory will vary depending on individual 
circumstances. 
I note both of these fridge-freezers  were  refurbished, not new. They cost about £400  each 
and Ms C agreed to repay about £530  at £10.15 a week  over 52 weeks  under the HPA. I 
dont have much information  about  the cosmetic  damage to the first fridge-freezer 
BrightHouse supplied. But, I note it was sufficiently scuffed and dented for Ms C to object 
when she got it. And I think  BrightHouse  must  have accepted  this was not of satisfactory 
quality - because it agreed  to provide  a replacement.  
BrightHouse acknowledges the replacement fridge-freezer malfunctioned in February  
2018. By this I take it to mean its accepted there  was some  sort of technical fault. The CRA 
says if goods  are of unsatisfactory quality  a consumer has the right to repair  or replacement 
- as well as the final right to reject or a price reduction (section 19(3)).
BrightHouse says Ms C should reasonably have allowed  it the opportunity to repair or 
replace the second fridge-freezer  because the issue with the first one wasnt the same. 
But, the CRA says a consumer may exercise the final right to reject if, after one repair  or 
replacement the goods still dont conform to the contract (section  24(5)).
Whilst I dont apply  the law I do have to take it into account. As far as I can see here 
BrightHouse supplied one fridge-freezer of unsatisfactory quality - in that it was dented - and 
the replacement  then proved to have a fault.  I think its understandable that Ms C was pretty  
fed up at this point.  Shed  already had to return one fridge-freezer and the replacement 
broke down  within months  later ruining the contents. And Im minded  to agree with our 
investigator that its not unreasonable for Ms C to exercise her final right to reject in this 
situation.
I understand BrightHouse has already taken the fridge-freezer back  and ended  the HPA - if 
thats not correct  the parties  should  let me know. I appreciate BrightHouse  thinks  it would be 
unfair to have to reimburse the monthly  payments Ms C made before the agreement ended  - 
given the use she had of the goods. But, Section 24(10) of the CRA  says
 no deduction may be made if the final right to reject is exercised in the first six months  
unless 
(a) the goods consist of a motor vehicle, or
(b) the goods are of a description  specified  by order made by the Secretary of State by 
statutory instrument
This wasnt a motor vehicle and Im not aware  that the Secretary of State has made a 
relevant order. I note the fridge-freezer wasnt new when Ms C got it. And BrightHouse says 
it has been fixed and returned to stock  now. Overall I think it unlikely Ms Cs limited  use will 
Ref: DRN65474233have had a significant impact on the fridge-freezers re-sale  or hire value - so theres been 
little detriment to BrightHouse from her use. I am not persuaded I can reasonably find she 
shouldnt have a refund of the payments she made towards the HPA. 
I note however that Ms C was also paying  every month for fire, theft and accident  
insurance. Im satisfied she had the benefit  of this insurance while she had the fridge-freezer 
- in that if it had been lost or damaged as a result of one of the insured events she would 
have been covered. I find it reasonable that Ms C should  pay for that period on cover.  So I 
am minded to find BrightHouse shouldnt have to refund the portion of her monthly payment 
that went towards the cost of this insurance.  
If BrightHouse  had accepted Ms Cs rejection  when  Im minded to find it should  have, earlier  
this year,  she wouldnt have needed to carry on making monthly  payments.  And I am 
inclined to find BrightHouse should  remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Cs 
credit file about the finance after the replacement fridge-freezer broke down.   
Ive seen no evidence  to show the value  of food that was lost when the fridge-freezer 
defrosted. I think its likely  some food would  have been spoiled - and I dont think  between  
£50 and £70 sounds like an unreasonable estimate for a fridge-freezer  of this capacity. I 
consider it likely Ms C experienced some upset  and inconvenience as a result  of whats 
happened as well. And, taking everything  Ive seen so far into account, I am inclined to find 
BrightHouse should  pay her a total of £100  compensation.    
I invited both parties to consider my provisional decision and let me have any further 
comments or information by 18 January 2019. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all available  the evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Both parties  have responded.  BrightHouse doesnt agree with everything  Ive said but it has 
accepted my provisional decision. Ms C is unhappy  with the outcome I have proposed.  She 
says (in summary) 
she has lost out financially  which is unfair  - shes  had to pay for the fridge-freezer  and 
the damaged  contents;
when she was offered  a replacement fridge-freezer she wasnt  told it would be a 
refurbished one;
the fridge-freezer she received was a brand she wouldnt normally buy as she has no 
confidence in it;
electrical goods should  be replaced with a like for like product;
she didnt cause  any of the problems or break the agreement  terms yet shes  still 
without a freezer;
this could have  all been resolved much sooner if BrightHouse had got in touch with 
her - it hasnt dealt with anything in a professional way. 
 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN65474234I think I have already dealt with most  of the issues raised by Ms C in my provisional decision. 
I want to assure Ms C that I have considered everything she has said very carefully.   I 
understand this has been an upsetting  and stressful experience and she feels BrightHouse  
could have handled things better.  
BrightHouse has already taken the fridge  freezer back so Ms C doesnt have to keep an item 
shed lost confidence in. Under the outcome I proposed in my provisional decision Ms C will 
receive a refund of the payments she made towards the HPA - and compensation for food 
lost as well as distress and inconvenience. 
For the reasons  Ive explained already, I remain of the view that the resolution  I set out in my 
provisional conclusions  is fair overall.  And I am not persuaded there are reasonable grounds 
to depart from my provisional decision. 
I realise this decision  may come  as a disappointment  to Ms C. But, I cant  fairly require 
BrightHouse to do anything further.  Ms C doesnt  have to accept what Ive said - in which 
case it remains open to her to pursue this matter  by other means should she wish to do so.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. In full and final settlement I require Caversham 
Finance Limited  (trading  as BrightHouse)  to
1.terminate the finance  agreement with nothing further owed by Ms C;
2.refund  any payments  Ms C made towards the hire purchase agreement  along with 
interest at 8% simple  a year from the date of payment  to the date of settlement;
3.pay Ms C £100 compensation for her out of pocket expenses, distress and 
inconvenience; and 
4.remove any adverse information  recorded  about the finance after the replacement  
fridge-freezer broke down from Ms Cs credit file. 
If BrightHouse  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should  also give Ms C a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6547423