K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled  his claim under his 
motor policy  when his car was damaged  by another vehicle when it was parked.
background
Mr Bs car was damaged by another driver on 24 November 2017 when it was parked. So 
Mr B made a claim to AXA and AXA repaired his car. The other drivers insurers  wouldnt 
respond to AXA over Mr Bs claim. So it had to send the case  on to its legal department to 
get the other  drivers  insurer to refund  the costs of Mr Bs claim. 
It kept Mr B updated about all of this, which is what Mr B is complaining about. AXA didnt 
think it had done  anything wrong in keeping Mr B updated about what was happening  and 
indeed ensuring  Mr B was kept informed of the consequences to him, plus requesting his 
help.
Mr B disagreed and so he brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think AXA had 
done anything  wrong. Mr B disagreed  so his complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Whilst it certainly wasnt Mr Bs fault his car was damaged, whilst parked,  he made a claim to 
AXA to repair it, which AXA then arranged and paid for. That meant until AXA received 
reimbursement from the other drivers insurers for the cost of AXAs  repair of Mr Bs car, the 
claim would remain a fault  claim on Mr Bs insurance record.  This is standard  industry wide 
practice, which is authorised by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This 
essentially means that AXA was then out of pocket for the repairs  to Mr Bs car. That has a 
knock on effect in the price of Mr Bs premium  for the next policy year,  as all insurers  
invariably charge more  for such fault claims.  So it was in Mr Bs interests that AXA kept 
pushing the other drivers insurers to reimburse  it.
Its also right and proper that AXA kept Mr B informed as to its efforts.  Had it not done this 
and Mr B had complained  about  that instead,  I would have upheld  that element against  AXA.  
Therefore, I dont consider AXA did anything at all wrong in ensuring Mr B was kept updated.
However, the other drivers insurers were  slow to respond to AXA. This meant AXA had to 
pass the case to its legal department. That legal department also had duties to keep Mr B 
informed and indeed  to make sure he would be willing to attend court if it had to issue court  
proceedings. This is because if legal proceedings were necessary, they would be issued in 
Mr Bs name and showing he was the claimant, not AXA. Again, thats how motor  insurance 
claims work  according to the legal rules  in issuing such  court  proceedings. So theres  
nothing wrong  with AXA preparing for that. And obviously, since such proceedings would 
have been in Mr Bs name, I think its further  utterly essential he was kept informed.
Essentially Mr B agreed  to all this when he took out this policy,  as theres a condition  
entitling AXA to ask Mr B for all reasonable help in order  to take action  in his name to recoup 
its costs of his claim which the adjudicator fully detailed in her view.  So regardless of how 
Ref: DRN65225272upsetting Mr B found it,  AXA  and its legal department were duty bound to have contacted 
Mr B, as they both did. 
I do appreciate Mr B found this upsetting, but theres  simply nothing wrong with AXA keeping 
Mr B updated or indeed  its legal department contacting him, to ensure he was willing  to 
attend court if necessary.  This was all for Mr Bs benefit in any event, so as to ensure he 
wouldnt be penalised by having such a fault claim left on his insurance record. Its certainly 
not AXAs fault, the other drivers insurers were slow in dealing with this case  either.
As it turned out the other drivers insurers eventually responded  and refunded AXA 
essentially admitting  the other driver was at fault for damaging Mr Bs car. AXA then quite 
rightly told Mr B this. Again, I appreciate this further upset Mr B but again, I consider  AXA 
was duty bound to inform  him of this. This now means Mr B only has a non-fault  accident on 
his insurance record.
Mr B believed this service should have been  able to intervene and sort out the other drivers 
insurer. However, neither  I nor anyone else in this service has any power  to do that. Our 
remit is merely  to assess whether the business complained about, AXA here,  did anything 
wrong in its handling of Mr Bs claim. Also this service isnt the regulator,  the FCA is. 
Therefore, I also have no power  or remit to change how motor  insurers  deal with claims.  My 
remit as an ombudsman of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to simply investigate  if AXA 
did anything wrong  in its dealings with Mr B. And I dont think  it did anything  wrong  at all. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6522527