K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that the rate Landmark  Mortgages Limited is applying to his mortgage is too 
high.
background
Mr F took out his mortgage with the former  Northern  Rock many years  ago. When Northern 
Rock collapsed Mr Fs mortgage was taken over by the government-backed  lender which  
was set up to deal with those mortgages. More recently it was sold on with a book of other 
loans, to Landmark, a private  company.
Mr F had a fixed  interest rate applicable to his mortgage until 2012. From that date his 
mortgage went on to the standard variable  rate (SVR). In 2014 he moved on to the loyalty  
rate  which is the SVR less a small discount   and has been  on that rate ever since.
Mr F complains about the rate of his mortgage. He feels  its unfair  that its much higher  than 
other lenders charge  and neither the government-owned lender nor Landmark  would offer 
him new fixed interest rates. Mr Fs health is such that hes no longer  able to work, and 
government benefits  contribute to his mortgage. But because the rate of the government  
benefit, SMI, is fixed at a level below that of his mortgage, he has to make up the shortfall  
each month  and hes struggled to do that. He wants Landmark to reduce its rate to reflect 
the fact that the Bank of England base rate is at historically low levels.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding his complaint, so Mr F has asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have much sympathy for the predicament  Mr F finds himself  in, and I was sorry to hear 
about the problems hes had with his health.  
The level of his benefits  in particular  the SMI interest rate  is set by the government and 
isnt something I have any power  over,  so Ill say no more about that. Instead, Ill focus on 
the interest rate charged by Landmark.
The lending environment when Mr F took his mortgage out was very different to what  it is 
now. And since then, Mr F has become unwell and had to give up work  and as a result the 
mortgage is being paid, in part, by government benefits. So hes not been able to move the 
mortgage to another lender and considers himself trapped, first with the government-owned 
lender and then with Landmark. That means that, in reality, he has no choice but to pay 
Landmarks SVR  whereas if he were  with another lender he might be able to access  lower 
fixed or tracker rate products.
This complaint is about Landmark  not the government-owned lender that owned the 
mortgage before it was sold to Landmark. When Landmark took over the mortgage  it was on 
that lenders SVR, and in practice the same rate continues to be applied. The 
government-owned lender was prevented from offering interest  rate products by the terms of 
its government bailout because of legal restrictions on government  bodies competing against  
Ref: DRN65528932the market. That doesnt apply to Landmark,  which is a private company, so theres no legal 
or government policy  bar to Landmark offering new interest rate products as there was with 
the government-owned lender.
Landmark has that its not able to offer new interest  rate products because of restrictions  on 
its regulatory permissions,  or that it doesnt  have  a lending license. But thats not in fact 
correct. Its regulatory permissions mean it could offer new interest rate products. But its 
chosen not to do so. 
It says that its not an active lender, and isnt trying to attract  new customers  through offering 
low rates. It says its taken a commercial  decision in the interests of the financial 
management of its business to maintain all its customers on the SVR once their previous 
interest rate products  expire. And so its not treating Mr F any differently to any of its other 
customers.
Landmark is a closed lender in that its not taking on new business,  but its still regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  and has to follow its rules. But theres nothing in the FCAs 
rules that says a lender has to offer new interest  rates to its customers  once their old ones 
expire. The rules say that a lender has to treat its customers fairly taking account of their 
best interests; it has to communicate with them in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way; it has 
to notify them of changes to their monthly payments; and it mustnt  take advantage of 
customers who cant move their mortgages  elsewhere by treating them differently to other 
customers with similar characteristics.
In this case, Landmark has notified  Mr F of changes  to their payments from time to time. It 
isnt treating them differently to others of its customers  all customers must stay on the SVR 
once their products  expire, just like Mr F. So I dont think Landmark is in breach of any of the 
regulators rules in not offering a new rate.
I dont think Landmark  is acting in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement  either. 
Mr Fs mortgage  offer sets out that they would  pay a fixed  rate, and thereafter the SVR. 
Nothing in the mortgage offer or the mortgage  terms say that Mr F would be entitled  to 
another fixed interest rate after that one expires.
Im aware, of course, from my knowledge of the mortgage market that its common  for 
borrowers to take a fixed or tracker rate product  and then, at or shortly before its expiry, 
take another rate rather than revert to the SVR. Sometimes thats  with their existing lender, 
sometimes its with another lender. But as I say, theres nothing  in the mortgage agreement  
that says hes entitled  to a new rate  and thats  also true of most other lenders mortgage 
agreements too. 
Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing in the mortgage contract, 
that requires Landmark to offer new interest rates. Nor is it under any other legal obligation 
to do so.
The terms and conditions  of the mortgage do allow  Landmark to change the interest rate 
from time to time. One of the factors it can take into account in doing  that is the Bank of 
England base rate. But the terms and conditions dont  say that it must follow  the base rate. 
In practice, during  the period covered by this complaint, the rate has gone up and down at 
broadly the same time,  and by broadly the same  amount, as the changes in base rate from 
2016 to 2018. But theres nothing in the mortgage agreement that says that has to happen, 
or that the SVR can only be a certain  margin above  base rate.
Ref: DRN65528933So the mortgage has been  operating in line with the terms and conditions. Thats not the end 
of the matter though  my role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I do that by taking into account the law, regulators rules  and guidance,  and 
good industry practice  but ultimately  Im not constrained by them if I think fairness requires 
me to do something else. 
So the question  I have to answer  is whether, taking into account the rules and the mortgage 
terms, its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that Landmark continues  to charge 
Mr F its SVR.
Ive thought about this carefully.  Ive taken into account everything  Ive set out above. 
Its very unfortunate  that, through  no fault of his own and through  a series  of events entirely 
out of his control, Mr F ended up with a closed  book lender that doesnt offer new rates. But 
Landmark is his lender,  and legitimately so. Its decided not to offer new interest rates to any 
customers, including Mr F. Under  current law and regulations,  thats a decision Landmark is 
entitled to take.  
Im mindful that if Landmark were to offer new lower  rates to some customers  but not others, 
that could mean some  customers were being treated less favourably than others with similar 
characteristics  which in turn could potentially cause unfairness.  But that isnt currently  the 
case. 
Because Landmark (and its predecessor owner  of this mortgage) is closed to new business, 
it doesnt offer new interest rate products. However,  theres nothing in Mr Fs mortgage  
agreement that would  prevent or hinder him re-mortgaging elsewhere  hes no longer liable 
for an early repayment charge, for example. 
Mr F rightly points  out that that isnt likely  to be possible in his case. But the reason he cant 
do that is because  of changes in circumstances  since he took the mortgage out  changes 
which arent part of the mortgage contract, arent  within  Landmarks control, and couldnt 
have been foreseen by any party when he took the mortgage out.
Landmarks not treating  Mr F any differently to how it treats  its other customers. Its business 
model is based on not offering new products  and thats a decision about  its business its 
entitled to take.  
Theres nothing in the contract, the law or the regulators rules that requires Landmark to 
offer new products. Landmark itself isnt standing in the way of Mr F moving their mortgage 
elsewhere. Hes not in arrears. Its treating them the same  as it treats  all its other  customers. 
And Im also mindful that while Landmarks SVR is significantly  higher  than new interest rate 
products offered by other lenders, its similar  to other lenders SVR rates. 
Taking the facts  of this case into account, and taking into account the law, rules  and my 
findings about Landmarks business model  and the level of its SVR, I dont think  I can fairly  
uphold this complaint.
However, its also important to note that Mr F is in receipt of government benefits,  and has 
said hes struggling to make up the shortfall each month.  It doesnt  appear that hes currently 
in arrears. However, he should keep in touch with Landmark and if at any point it appears he 
wont be able to make his payments, he should let Landmark know  and ask for assistance.
Ref: DRN65528934I therefore take this opportunity to remind Landmark that it has clear  obligations,  under  the 
rules of mortgage regulation, to assist borrowers in financial  difficulty wherever it can. Ive 
said that I dont  think, under the powers  I have, that I can fairly  require Landmark to reduce 
the interest rate it charges its customers. But where the consequence of its commercial  
decision not to do so is that Mr F has to pay more than he would otherwise do so  with the 
result that any financial difficulty is made  worse,  or has a higher impact  on him, than would 
otherwise be the case  there is in my view all the more  reason to expect Landmark to act 
fairly when  faced with any financial difficulty Mr F may be in. 
Mr F has said he doesnt believe  its possible for him to move his mortgage to another lender 
that could offer him a lower rate, in view of the fact that hes an interest only borrower  and 
because of his financial position. He may well be right about that. 
However, I know from my knowledge of the mortgage market  and from my experience of 
other cases that other lenders  with closed books, or who have  withdrawn from sections of 
the market, have made arrangements  for their borrowers to consult mortgage advisers to 
see whether they can move elsewhere  to a lender that would offer new interest rates.  The 
government backed  lender Mr F was formerly with does this  but so do other banks who 
have closed, or closed  part of, their books. 
In my view that amounts  to good industry  practice, and if Mr F were  to want to explore 
moving his mortgage  elsewhere, I would expect Landmark to facilitate him doing so  by 
referring him to a regulated  mortgage  adviser that could explore his options  in the mortgage 
market  and do so without charge to Mr F.
Finally I note that the term of Mr Fs mortgage  expires relatively soon. I dont know what  
repayment strategy he has, if any, as thats not part of this complaint. But I remind 
Landmark it will need to take action during the remaining term. The regulator has made  it 
clear that it expects lenders to keep in contact with borrowers of interest only mortgages well 
before the end of the term, discussing the various  options and seeking  to agree a way in 
which the mortgage can be repaid. It should not simply  sit back and wait for the end of the 
term. That may require it to give advice about  what options are available  if Mr F remains with 
Landmark. 
 
So Mr F will need to keep  in touch with Landmark and discuss with it how the mortgage is to 
be repaid. And Landmark will need  to pro-actively contact him too. I would expect  Landmark  
to consider what he says and treat any proposals he has fairly. If Mr F is unhappy  at any 
point, hell be able to complain at that time  but I cant pre-empt that here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
Ref: DRN65528935ombudsman
Ref: DRN6552893