K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004 by phone. Mr M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mr M aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his card. Capital One has provided a copy of the script it expected its 
representatives to follow at the time it sold the policy to Mr M. The script directed the 
representative to present  the policy as optional and gain consent before adding  it to the card.  
I cant be certain of how closely the representative  followed the script  in Mr Ms case  but I 
think it most likely represents what was discussed  during  the call. So I think Capital  One 
made it clear  that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although 
I can understand why he may not remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had available 
of making his repayments,  which included generous  sick pay from his employer and help 
from parents. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ms sick pay, and for longer 
than he would have  received full pay. And while Mr Ms parents would have wanted to help,  
their ability to do so would have been dependant on their circumstances  at the time, which  
could have changed. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN66165842Ive thought about everything Mr M has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6616584