K820x#14complaint
Mr L says that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  hasnt  treated  him fairly whilst hes 
been in financial  difficulties. He says he approached Halifax  for help before he went  into 
arrears, but they told him nothing could be done  until he was in arrears.  And that once he 
went into arrears  he was still refused assistance.
Any quotes  from phone conversations I include in this decision arent  an exact transcript  as 
Ive not included all the fillers (such  as erm, OK, right etc), but they are the words  used  and 
in the context they were used.
background
In October  2017 Mr L phoned Halifax as his preferential interest  rate was coming to an end. 
The call handler told Mr L about  the rates that were available. She said he could apply over 
the phone  or in branch  with an adviser,  and it would  be an advised service.  Mr L said he 
didnt need that, so the call handler  said he could do the change online without advice. 
Mr L also asked about whether  he could change his mortgage to interest-only at the same 
time. The call handler  said that couldnt  be done  online, and Mr L would  have to speak to an 
adviser and go through a full review  if he wanted  to make that change.  She said it would 
take about 45 minutes and theyd need  full details of Mr Ls income and expenditure. Mr L 
said if he was going to do that he might  as well hunt round the market.  
The call handler explained  its because there  are strict criteria for it, one of which  is that hed 
need a repayment vehicle  in place, and Mr L said he wanted to change to interest-only 
because his pensions  were in a better state  than hed thought. Mr L said hed leave it and do 
it when he had more  time.
Mr L changed his mortgage rate online, selecting  a 1.84% fixed  until 31 January  2020 which  
gave him a contractual monthly  payment of £1,637.56
In December 2017 Mr L called Halifax. He said Im phoning to see if I can get an advance 
on my mortgage and the main  reason  I actually want  to do this is because Ive got an 
unexpected tax bill to pay which is £10,800. Mr L said he also had a Halifax  credit card that 
hed like to put on the mortgage  as well, so that would be a total amount of £16,300.
There was a lot of conversation about the tax bill with the adviser trying to ascertain why it 
was unexpected, such as whether it was due to a disagreement with how much was due. 
Mr L said it was just a late payment that needs to be met. The call handler said Halifax 
wouldnt grant a mortgage  further advance for that. Mr L asked if he could just consolidate 
the credit  card,  but was told he couldnt as the minimum loan amount would be £10,000 and 
the credit  card was significantly less than that. The call ended  with Mr L asking for what  
reasons he could borrow more, and the call handler  saying thats not something theyd 
discuss as they need  Mr L to tell them what he needs the money for.
On 20 February 2018 the Halifax credit card area called Mr L in response to a letter  hed 
sent. I wont go into detail  about that call here as it wasnt a mortgage  call, albeit Mr L 
conflated the two in the call and said hed rung twice to discuss his options and had been 
told there was no help available.
Ref: DRN65805972The Halifax  mortgage  department spoke to Mr L on 12 March  and he said he hadnt received 
a call back hed been expecting from a conversation hed had previously. The call handler 
couldnt find any details  of the previous call, so its possible Mr L was referring  to the call on 
20 February which was with the credit card department, hence why there was no information 
on the mortgage systems.  
As no information was available of the previous call it was agreed  theyd start from the 
beginning. Mr L said the sensible, smart, practical answer to the question is use the pretty  
significant amount  of equity in my property,  pay off my loans, put it on my mortgage  and 
move on. Mr L said he had a credit card with Halifax and a £12,000 loan elsewhere.
By now Mr L was in arrears, and the call handler said further advances arent given when a 
mortgage account is in arrears,  and that it would  only be considered  once three monthly 
payments were made  in full and on time. Mr L said I also had this conversation  with you 
before the arrears  so I cant win. This is the annoying stupidity of this and asked Wheres 
the common sense  and the significant brain power  here?
The call handler reiterated that a further advance wouldnt be granted  and explained she 
could look to see what help can be put in place.  She asked Mr L whether he could afford  his 
payment due later that month.  Mr L said it was dependent on what the call handler said, to 
which she replied she didnt understand.
Mr L responded How difficult has this got to be. If you say OK it actually makes perfectly 
good sense to lend me the money that Im looking for and in the grand scheme of things 
save me £300 a month, if you think thats a good  idea then Marchs payment is not going to 
be a problem. If you dont  think  thats  a very good idea, Marchs and any other  payment 
might be a problem.
The call handler reconfirmed to Mr L that he couldnt have a further advance and said 
Youre looking for the monthly payments to be reduced Mr L interrupted,  saying No no 
no no no no no no Im not. Im looking for my outgoings to be reduced.  Im not looking for the 
monthly payments  to be reduced. And Have you not been paying  attention  to anything? If 
you lend me the money to pay off my loans, the bits Ive got outstanding, my mortgage will 
go up by a little bit, yes, understand? [] but because Im not making the other payments, 
overall my outgoings come down.  
The call ended  with the call handler  saying shell get a complaint logged  and Mr L will be 
called back.
On 19 March Halifax spoke to Mr L and he said Halifax  should  be thinking  If we help this 
guy and consolidate  some of his borrowing he will be better off and therefore weve got a 
better chance of getting paid every month.  How simple could that be? Thats all Im asking 
for.
Halifax issued three final response letters and agreed we should deal with all of them here 
together as one complaint. The March  2018 response dealt with the complaint that Mr L 
hadnt been provided with help before he went into arrears. The November  2018  dealt with 
the complaint  that Halifax wouldnt provide help with Mr Ls financial  difficulties  and wouldnt 
agree to a further advance. And the February  2019  response dealt with some charges that 
had been applied, that Mr Ls previous complaints had been  ignored and hed been refused 
financial assistance.
Ref: DRN65805973Halifax didnt uphold  any of the complaint points and sign-posted Mr L to organisations that 
might be able to help him, such as Citizens Advice  and StepChange.  The November 2018 
response also asked  Mr L to contact its Self Employed Verified Income  department so 
options could  be looked at, and said failure  to pay the contractual monthly payment and not 
set a payment  arrangement may result in legal  action commencing.
Mr L referred the complaint to us saying Halifax need to see there  is a solution but it 
requires them to set aside their strict  process and just deal with this matter based on the 
merits/facts. Agree a reduction (1637 > 1400) and lets [sic] move on.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L didnt agree and so its been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome. This service is impartial between,  and independent from, consumers and 
businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party,  and we dont act under 
eithers instructions  or take directions  on how a complaint will be looked at. Were required to 
decide whats fair and reasonable having assessed  all of the available  evidence from the 
parties.
Mr L accused our adjudicator of bias, and said hed had the wool pulled over his eyes. As I 
said, we look at things  independently without  taking sides.  By the very nature of what we 
deal with that normally means one party loses  - whether that is the consumer or the 
business - but that doesnt mean weve not considered  everything, theres been an element 
of bias or that weve paid more attention to one sides arguments over the others.
In his response to our adjudicators assessment Mr L said Ive not asked for any advance  to 
the lending. Ive asked only for a reduction  in the monthly payment as a short term 
arrangement  Halifax are mis-leading you. But Ive listened  to various calls between Mr L 
and Halifax and thats not right. 
In December 2017 Mr L formally enquired  about  a further advance to pay his tax bill and to 
consolidate his credit card debt.  And since then a further advance was the thing Mr L kept 
saying he needed,  as illustrated by the extracts  from the various calls I quoted in the 
background section  of this decision. In fact, as Ive set out above,  when one of the call 
handlers said Youre looking for the monthly payments to be reduced Mr L interrupted  
her, insisting No no no no no no no no Im not. Im looking for my outgoings  to be reduced.  
Im not looking for the monthly payments  to be reduced. 
Halifax kept telling Mr L he couldnt have a further advance and offered to look at what  could 
be done with his monthly mortgage payment to help him. But Mr L wasnt  interested in that 
and didnt want to answer the questions the call handlers needed  to ask so they could look 
at offering him some  help,  saying  it was none  of their business and they were asking silly 
questions. Its clear from the calls the only assistance Mr L wanted  was for Halifax to agree 
to lend him more  money so he could consolidate his debts. He didnt ask for  or co-operate 
Ref: DRN65805974with  a discussion  about the other  options. Whilst Mr L did initially  ask about interest-only 
he didnt say that was because he was in financial difficulties, instead  he said his pension  
provisions were better than expected. Mr L then didnt pursue it when the call handler said a 
full mortgage review  including details  of his income and expenditure  would be needed.
Halifax and our adjudicator said Mr L needed  to provide income and expenditure information 
so his options could be considered. It was only in response  to our adjudicators view in 
May 2019 that Mr L said hed completed an income and expenditure form and returned it to 
Halifax in March 2018 (sending us a scanned copy hed kept). 
Halifax said it didnt receive  the form. Having reviewed its contact notes I can see nothing is 
showing, which it would do if the form had been received by its collections team.  Its not 
clear what  happened  to the form in March 2018  when Mr L completed it, but I cant  hold 
Halifax liable for not receiving it. Its unfortunate that Mr L didnt email the scanned copy over 
sooner when it was apparent it hadnt been  received, as that could have  moved things 
forward and may have meant legal action wasnt taken and therefore  the costs  of that 
wouldnt have been incurred.
A mortgage is a priority debt, whereas a credit  card isnt. So its not a matter of Mr L paying a 
bit to each. Instead,  Mr L needed to pay as much  as he could to his mortgage, even if it 
meant there  was just a nominal £1 a month  left to pay to his credit card. Saying that, the 
income and expenditure form Mr L says he sent to Halifax in March  2018 showed his full 
mortgage payment  was achievable as it declares his income as £3,000 and his entire 
outgoings (including his full mortgage payment) as £2,928. Thats  with Mr L paying £35 a 
month to the unsecured debts. So if Halifax had received that form it wouldnt have indicated 
- in itself - that any assistance was needed with the mortgage, albeit Halifax would have 
needed to enter into an arrangement with the credit card.
In May 2019  Halifax obtained an outright possession order,  but its not enforced  that as Mr L 
subsequently entered  into a payment arrangement and said hed be selling his house.  Mr L 
has said Halifax denied that agreement was in place, and that it harassed  and bullied  him. 
Our rules state that a business must  be given  the opportunity to investigate and respond to 
any issues first, so I can only look at the things  that were dealt with in the three final 
response letters; March  2018, November 2018  and February 2019. Anything thats 
happened since then cant be dealt with in this decision. I know Mr L thinks  it forms part of 
the overall picture, but I need to decide this complaint about things that happened up to and 
including February  2019, based  on the information and evidence Ive got about that. Things  
that Mr L says have happened  since then are irrelevant as even if a business makes a 
mistake once (which Im not saying Halifax did following the Possession Order as I cant 
consider that here), doesnt mean  its made a mistake another  time.
Wed expect a lender  to look at offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  The 
difficulty here is that Mr L didnt want to go through that process and rebutted the call 
handlers attempts  to get into it, instead just concentrating on his preferred option  of a further 
advance. The pressure to make his mortgage  payments  must  have been immense  for Mr L, 
and Im not unsympathetic towards  him in that regard. But my impartiality means I must  also 
have regard for Halifaxs point of view. 
I can understand Mr Ls frustration that Halifax wasnt willing to increase the mortgage to 
allow him to consolidate his debts.  To Mr L it seemed  the obvious answer as it would lower  
Ref: DRN65805975his outgoings.  But what may seem  an obvious  answer to a non-mortgage professional isnt 
always the best thing for them. Halifax has a duty to lend responsibly, and lending  more 
money secured  on their home  to someone that, by their own admission, cant  afford the 
mortgage payment  they already had wouldnt be responsible. 
To explain, it may have reduced  Mr Ls outgoings,  but the issue  is that previously unsecured 
debts (such as a credit card debt)  would  now be secured on Mr Ls home. Whilst the 
non-payment of an unsecured debt would impact on a persons credit  record,  the 
non-payment (or not full payment) of a secured debt could lead to a person losing their 
home. Thats why lenders  have strict rules  about consolidating unsecured debts  onto a 
mortgage, rules that Mr L didnt meet.  I dont think Halifax  has acted unreasonably in 
applying its policy as it did. Businesses make a commercial decision about the lending  
theyre willing to agree  to.
Throughout this complaint  Ive had to keep  in mind that as Mr L is the one bringing the 
complaint against  Halifax,  to uphold the complaint Mr Ls version needs to be more  likely 
than Halifaxs version; not just as likely . And on balance I cant say that Mr Ls version is 
anything more than just as likely. Having considered everything, Im satisfied Halifax hasnt 
acted unreasonably and so I make no order or award of compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6580597