K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Wesleyan Assurance  Society didnt make him aware that his income 
protection cover had a limitation on the amount that could be paid, and that Wesleyan would 
take into account other income sources  within that amount. 
background
Mr H holds four income protection policies with Wesleyan. The aim of the cover  is to pay 
benefit, after a waiting period, if Mr H isnt able to work because of accident  or illness. His 
policies have a limitation which restricts the amount of benefit hes able to claim, and which  
takes into account other income that he receives.
Mr H stopped work because of illness.  He made  a claim, which was accepted. However, he 
was unhappy  to learn that because he was due to receive an ill-health retirement  pension,  
he wouldnt  be able to claim  the full insured benefit under the policies  because  of the 
limitation of benefit  clause. Mr H complained that Wesleyan didnt make him aware  of this 
when the policies were sold.
Wesleyan didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. It thought Mr H had been made aware of the 
limitation of benefit  clause, and that other income  would be taken into account in a benefit 
calculation. Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought a complaint  to this service.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Whilst there  was limited 
information from the policy sales, he thought the policy  was clear that there was a limitation 
of benefit. 
Mr H didnt accept our adjudicators findings.  And after we provided him with some 
information that Wesleyan had given  us, he thought hed already been over-insured  in 1997 
and the adviser  should have made him aware of this at the time. Mr H asked for an 
ombudsmans decision, so the matters  been  passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
limitation of benefit
The same policy document applies to all four policies. It explains the maximum benefit is:
the following  proportion  of the Insureds income less any amount allowable against  income  
tax as expenses:-
75% of the first £45,000  plus
50% of the next £15,000 plus
25% of the balance
The policy also explains  that the benefit  provided  by the policy  will be reduced if the total 
income exceeds the maximum  benefit. That income includes:- the benefit under the policy;  
benefit under other sickness and accident  insurances; state invalidity pension; the weekly  
equivalent of all ill-health  or retirement pension; and any continuing income  from the 
insureds occupation.
Ref: DRN68774972All income  protection  policies  have  a limitation of benefit clause that sets out a maximum 
benefit amount,  and this usually takes into account other income.  The reason for this is so 
that the insured isnt financially better off by not being at work. 
Ive looked at the available evidence to see if Mr H was made aware that the policy worked 
in this way. 
Between 1991 and 1994, Mr H took out four income protection  policies. Given  how long has 
passed since the policies were sold, I wouldnt expect Wesleyan to keep records  from the 
sales. Nonetheless, Wesleyan has been able to provide a copy  of the policy document,  three 
of the application forms, as well as a Personal  Financial Appraisal (PFA) document which  
was completed in 1994.
I see that according to the 1994 PFA, Mr H was earning £55,000 per annum. His income 
protection cover from his three existing  policies amounted to £600 a week.  It was recorded 
that Mr H wanted to increase his cover to the maximum as his salary had increased. 
Ive looked at the three available application  forms, and I see these were signed  by Mr H. 
Underneath the signature theres  a box containing  Notes for the guidance of Proposers. 
This included some  important information about  the policy. The information varied slightly 
across the application  forms, but they all included the maximum benefit calculation for 
income. Two of the forms made it clear that benefit would be restricted  to ensure the total 
benefit received,  which included  other income  sources such as ill-health retirement pension, 
didnt exceed  this maximum.  
Whilst theres limited information  from the sales, Im satisfied the available information  did 
explain there was a limitation of benefit, and generally made it clear how the maximum 
benefit was calculated. 
was Mr H over-insured in 1997?
Wesleyan has also been able to provide a PFA that was completed during a review with Mr 
H in 1997. At that time, it was recorded  that Mr Hs income had increased  to £97,000 per 
annum. The adviser  noted that he was happy  with his existing level of cover, and so didnt 
recommend he take out any further  cover.
We provided Mr H with a copy of the 1997  PFA and he thinks this shows  that he was already 
over-insured. Although  he didnt  take out a policy at the time, he thinks the adviser  should  
have brought  this fact to his attention. 
Mr H says that his reported  income of £83,000 in the 1997  PFA meant  that the maximum 
benefit he could  receive was £903 per week. Together with the ill-health retirement pension 
he could receive, he says this would make  him over-insured. 
It seems  Mr H is looking at the pension scheme section, as this refers to his superannuable 
income being £83,000. This is different to his total earnings of £97,000, as detailed  on page 
two of the document. 
The PFA makes reference  to how the maximum benefit is calculated  (on page 10), however 
this differs  to the calculation used in Mr Hs policy document.  Weve  asked Wesleyan  about  
Ref: DRN68774973this, and its explained the income  protection policy available to customers  at that time had a 
different maximum benefit calculation  to the policies  held by Mr H. 
Ultimately I dont think this matters since Mr H didnt take out a policy at that time. The only 
relevant calculation is that under  Mr Hs existing policies. Based on his earnings of £97,000, 
the maximum weekly benefit he could claim was £971.  
The PFA refers to two different figures  for Mr Hs existing cover  at the time - £705 and £724. 
I dont know why there was a difference, presumably this was the advisers error. However, 
even if his cover was the higher of these figures  he would have been able to claim the full 
amount if a valid claim was made, as it was within  the maximum benefit allowed. I therefore  
dont find that he was over-insured  at this time. 
If we were to take into account Mr Hs potential ill-health retirement pension  (which I 
understand would have  been around  £319  a week at the time), then I would agree he was 
indeed over-insured.  However, I dont  think  an ill-health retirement pension ought  to be taken 
into account and Ive set out my reasons for this below.
when Mr H became over-insured
Mr H is also unhappy that after 1997,  he didnt have any further reviews with Wesleyan, and 
so it wasnt identified that he was over-insured. He thinks Wesleyan should repay some of 
his premiums to recognise  that he became over-insured at some  point.  
As the adjudicator has explained, there was no ongoing obligation on Wesleyan  to carry out 
regular reviews of Mr Hs income protection cover. 
The benefit  under  Mr Hs income protection policies was index-linked. That meant that each  
year, Wesleyan increased the level of benefit  for each  policy  in line with the Retail Prices 
Index (RPI). I see that Mr H was given the option to accept this increase  or decline it, and I 
understand he accepted the increase each year. 
I dont know if Mr Hs increased  benefit  levels alone  have led to him being  over-insured. I 
assume not since Mr H has told us its the payment  of his ill-health  retirement pension  that 
has prevented him from claiming the full benefit  under  the policies. 
Its the usual approach  of this service to require an insurer  to repay the premiums  it has 
received if were satisfied  that it hasnt run the risk of paying a claim. However, I dont think 
thats the case here. Ill explain  why. 
Mr Hs ill-health retirement pension would only be paid if he were permanently  unable to 
work. I appreciate that has now become the case. However, this is a stricter test of 
incapacity than he would  need to meet  under  the Wesleyan policies. As such,  I dont think an 
ill-health retirement pension should  be relied  upon as a definite  source  of income in the 
event of long-term incapacity. 
I note that when Mr H took out the policies,  Wesleyans advisers took into account his 
expected ill-health retirement pension when working out how much  income protection  he 
should hold. I disagree with that approach, for the above reason. 
Whilst theres always been the possibility of a payment under Mr Hs ill-health retirement  
pension, I cant say that Wesleyan hasnt run the risk of paying the insured benefit under Mr 
Ref: DRN68774974Hs four policies. To put it another way, if Mr H had been unable to work in his occupation  
because of ill health (but wasnt permanently unable to do so) then Wesleyan would have 
been obliged  to pay the full benefit under the policies.  The potential  benefit from his ill-health 
retirement pension  wouldnt have mattered. 
Consequently, I dont intend  to require Wesleyan to refund any of Mr Hs premiums  because 
Im satisfied it has run the risk of paying  a claim in full. 
However, if the level of Mr Hs income  protection cover alone  meant  that he was over-
insured and unable to claim  the full amount of insured  benefit  based on his earnings, he 
should inform  Wesleyan of this. It can then work  out if hes entitled to any refund of 
premiums. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6877497