K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss L are unhappy with the service they received from London and Country  
Mortgages Ltd (L&C)  when they applied for a mortgage.
background 
In November 2018 Mr M and Miss L applied for a mortgage through  L&C,  a mortgage 
broker. The application  was accepted  by the lender and a formal  mortgage offer was issued. 
But then L&C was told on 13 February  2019  that the application had been cancelled due to 
issues with the property.
On 28 February 2019 an application was submitted to a different lender for a new property  
Mr M and Miss L wanted to purchase. Mr M and Miss L instructed their own detailed 
inspection, and a basic mortgage valuation was carried out for the lender.
The lender  said,  once it had reviewed the valuation report, that it wanted  an Arboricultural 
Report. L&C notified Mr M and Miss L of this on 15 March.
On 2 April Mr M and Miss L emailed a copy of the Arboricultural Report to the adviser theyd 
been dealing  with. Unfortunately, the adviser had left the company and L&C hadnt  updated  
his voicemail or put an out of office auto-response on his email.
Mr M and Miss L say they chased the adviser  by email on 8 and 11 April,  and left voicemails 
on 8 and 9 April. 
They say that as they hadnt heard anything at nearly 5pm on 11 April that they tried calling 
the adviser again, and then called the number listed on his voicemail message. It was then 
they were told hed left the company. 
Mr M and Miss L emailed the report over to the person they spoke to - another adviser - and 
he immediately uploaded that to the lender.
On 17 April the lender  told L&C it needed  a further  report. Mr M and Miss L were notified by 
the lender that there was movement on their application, but not what  it was. So they 
emailed the new adviser to find out. As theyd heard nothing back by 23 April they emailed 
the case manager (who  undertakes admin tasks, rather than gives advice) to find out what  
was happening.  They then spoke to the new adviser  who told them about the further report 
being needed.
Unhappy with that Mr M and Miss L made a complaint to L&C,  withdrew their application and 
said theyd approach a different mortgage  broker to try to get the purchase completed.
Mr M and Miss L say because  of the month-long delay the seller  relisted  the property. They 
later told our investigator that the seller  was a landlord and hed accepted their offer,  but 
made it known he wanted  more  money.  They said, due to the delays the seller relisted the 
property and accepted an offer from another party.
L&C acknowledged  the service  had fallen short of what it would expect and apologised for 
that. It also offered  £200 compensation to try to resolve things.
Ref: DRN63728252Our investigator thought L&Cs offer was fair. Mr M and Miss L didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im aware  my summary of the background 
above doesnt include every contact between  the parties. I confirm Ive read everything 
provided by Mr M and Miss L. Theyve made detailed submissions in support of their 
complaint. Ive taken  note of everything theyve  said, but I wont  be responding to each and 
every point, or in as much detail. No discourtesy  is intended by this; it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes mistakes, mistakes do 
happen. Buying  a house is a stressful time and its understandable  to want  it to go as 
smoothly as possible.  L&C has accepted  it let Mr M and Miss L down here and has 
apologised for that.
Having looked  at everything, and kept in mind the regulatory requirements  and normal 
industry practice, Im not persuaded (as I must  be if Im to uphold this complaint) that this 
application was unreasonably and significantly delayed.
Its not a matter of just looking at two dates, we have to think about which days  were  working  
days (rather than weekends and/or bank holidays).
The first delay on this complaint  was between 15 March and 2 April,  and this wasnt a delay 
by L&C.  L&C told Mr M and Miss L on 15 March  that an Arboricultural Report was needed, 
and Mr M and Miss L emailed the report to the adviser (not knowing hed left) on 2 April. So 
that takes account of twelve working  days.
The other two delays were due to L&C and those  were:
from 2 April (when the report was emailed to the adviser that had left) to 11 April (when  
the report was received by the new adviser,  and submitted  to the lender); a period of 
seven working days
from 17 April (when the lender asked for the further report) to 23 April (when L&C told 
Mr M and Miss L the report  was needed); a period  of two working days as there  was 
Easter weekend  in that period.
So adding this all together only nine working days of delay can be attributed to L&C.  And 
even that is debatable as, for example, Mr M and Miss L emailed the report to the original 
adviser after 4pm on 2 April, so even if he was still working for L&C he might not have picked 
it up until the following  day. 
Mr M and Miss L have said the seller put the property back on the market and accepted an 
offer from another party. Its not clear what happened with that as in November 2019 the 
property was back (or still) on the market  at the same purchase price.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied there were no significant delays by L&C that, on 
balance, I can say directly and solely caused  Mr M and Miss L to lose the property. For that 
reason I dont uphold the main thrust of the complaint.
Ref: DRN63728253That said,  L&C admitted there were some customer service failings and it apologised for 
those. Its not our role to fine or punish  a business and our awards arent punitive. Clearly no 
amount of compensation can change what happened;  all I can do is consider the impact  of a 
businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made  
in other  similar  cases. Having done so Im satisfied that £200 compensation is fair, and I 
make no additional  award  in respect  of interest  on that sum that Mr M and Miss L requested.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense  I consider  London and Country Mortgages Ltd 
made a fair offer. I leave  it to Mr M and Miss L to decide if  on reflection  they now wish to 
accept that offer directly with the business. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss L 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6372825