K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of himself  and his late wife, Mrs B, that Bank of Scotland  (BoS) 
plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with BoS in 199. At the same time, they bought a PPI 
policy which  would have  helped  cover  their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a 
time if either  of them was unable to work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy.
The total monthly benefit was £200 and was split equally between Mr and Mrs B. 
Its not clear what Mr Bs specific complaint is, so this service has looked at the whole sale. 
Our adjudicator didnt  find a reason to uphold Mr Bs complaint, so the case  has been  
passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding this 
case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached  this 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage  in 1991. BoS has provided a copy  of the paperwork  
which was completed  at the time.  The mortgage application includes a section about  PPI 
which makes it clear  it is optional. Mr and Mrs B have indicated they want  to take the PPI as 
well as stating how much cover they wanted  and how it should be split between  them.  They 
signed the completed form and also completed a separate PPI application.
Taking everything into account,  I think its likely  Mr and Mrs B chose to buy the PPI knowing 
that it was optional.
Its likely  that BoS advised  Mr and Mrs B to buy the PPI. So it had a duty to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the policy was right for them and to give them enough information to 
make their decision  about buying it.  Looking at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time I 
think the policy was suitable for them. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs B were  both eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by 
any of the terms which might have made it more difficult for them to make a 
successful claim  such  as those  related to existing medical conditions or self-
employment;
Mr and Mrs B both had limited sick pay. The policy would have paid out in addition to 
this and for up to 12 months at a time  longer than their full sick pay would have 
lasted;
Mr and Mrs B were  likely entitled to statutory redundancy  pay, which would  have 
been worth a few weeks salary  given their lengths  of service. Again, the PPI would  
have paid out in addition  to their redundancy pay and for up to 12 months at a time;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on sale at the same  
time. The cost and benefit were clearly disclosed to Mr and Mrs B at the time of sale. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B;
Ref: DRN68385132It was a regular  monthly  premium  policy which could  have been cancelled without 
financial penalty at any time.  So I think it provided  the flexibility  Mr and Mrs B would 
have needed.
Its possible BoS didnt  give Mr and Mrs B all the information they ideally should  have  had 
but I dont think  more, or better, information would have made  a difference to their decision 
to buy the PPI because it was suitable for them in the way Ive already described. Indeed, Mr 
B made a successful  claim against  the policy in 2001.
So, on balance, I dont  think BoS mis-sold  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6838513