K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about U K Insurance Limited.  He isnt happy  that it wouldnt deal with a 
theft claim under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr S took out insurance through UKI for his car. He allowed a cousin to use his car who took 
out his own insurance  for the short time he had control of it. 
When Mr Ss cousin  was using the car, he met some friends and somehow the car was 
allegedly stolen and involved  in an accident.  Mr Ss cousin wasnt able to make a theft claim 
under his insurance policy as it was voided (treated as if it never existed). 
So, Mr S looked to make a claim under his own insurance policy.  But UKI turned down his 
claim. It was of the view that he didnt have control  of the car at the time of the alleged  theft.  
Mr S complained to UKI and then this service as he wasnt happy about this.  
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he 
sympathised with Mr S, he didnt think that UKI had done anything  wrong.  This was because 
Mr S had given the car to a family  member, who had taken out insurance for the car, so he 
agreed that Mr S wasnt in control  of the car at the time of the theft.
As Mr S didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite  my natural sympathy  for the difficult position Mr S has found  
himself, Im not upholding this complaint.  Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr S feels his claim should be met. He had an insurance policy for his 
car, and he feels that it was stolen and that UKI should meet the claim.  
But he handed care and control of his car to a family member and told them to take out 
insurance for the car. And they took out insurance  for the car for their use at that time. Had 
that policy have  paid out for the theft then that would be the end of the matter.  
Unfortunately, it didnt. This was because Mr Ss cousin hadnt given his insurer the correct 
details and had said that he was the owner  of the car, when  he wasnt,  so it cancelled the 
policy. And although this is unfortunate, I think this shows  where  liability  lies, and I presume 
the family  member can complain to their insurer about the fact it declined  the claim if he 
wishes.
As Mr S had given his car to someone and they had complete care and control  of the car, 
including taking out insurance,  in a completely different area of the country I cant say UKI 
has acted unreasonably. Especially as the police have concerns around  the circumstances 
surrounding the theft and no one has been  prosecuted for the theft to date. And his cousins 
recollection about the circumstances leading to the theft is hazy (although  he alleges his 
cigarette was spiked), but he was a passenger  in the car around the time it was stolen
Ref: DRN66763352Mr S doesnt  feel this is relevant and feels that the clause UKI has relied on in turning down 
the claim isnt fair or relevant to his claim. UKI says that the car isnt covered as it will not 
cover any injury, loss, damage or liability which takes place while  your car is being: driven by 
any person not described as entitled to drive by the certificate of motor insurance  or 
schedule. 
Mr S feels  that, as his cousin wasnt allegedly driving at the time of the theft and subsequent 
accident, the clause shouldnt apply.  However, the actual  theft or loss  clearly took place 
while his cousin had the keys and physical control  of the car. Mr S feels that this clause is 
ambiguous and so should  be interpreted in his favour, but I dont agree.
While I have a lot of sympathy for Mr S and understand  the point he raises, I cant say UKI 
has acted unreasonably and I dont feel the clause is ambiguous. I say this as Mr S had 
given the car to his cousin, insisted he got his own car insurance (which he got although the 
policy was subsequently voided) and it was his cousins interaction with a group of people  he 
knew that ultimately led to the alleged theft.  Furthermore, the circumstances surrounding the 
theft and his cousins involvement are far from clear. 
But it is clear, at the time of the theft or loss that Mr S had handed over physical control of 
the car to his cousin and that isnt in dispute. As such, I dont think UKI has acted 
unreasonably here.  It is clear his cousin wasnt entitled to drive the car under Mr Ss policy  
and wasnt named on the insurance schedule. He had taken out his own insurance and the 
theft took place  a long way from the risk address. Plus, the circumstances surrounding the 
theft remain unclear  and the police havent got to the bottom of things or prosecuted anyone.  
So, as there  is little doubt that Mr S handed  physical control of the car to his cousin, who had 
been driving around the time of the alleged theft,  I cant say that UKI has acted unreasonably 
in turning down  the claim.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6676335