K820x#14complaint
Mr C and the Estate of Miss T say St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold them a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in August 2004.
background
Mr C says that when he and the late Miss T took out a mortgage in 2004,  St Andrews 
Insurance mis-sold them  a PPI policy. He says the policy  wasnt optional; and they were 
pressured into taking  it out. He says they werent  told about the policy terms and conditions  
or the cost of the policy.
The policy cost £32.54 each month and it covered Mr C only in the event he lost his job and 
was unemployed  or if he wasnt working  due to accident or sickness. And it wouldve 
provided a monthly  benefit of £536.80  for up to 24 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed  so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think its likely  St Andrews Insurance made it clear that Mr C and Miss T didnt have to 
take out the PPI and they chose  to purchase  the policy  although I can understand if he 
cant remember this given how long ago it was.
This is because Ive seen  a copy of the PPI acceptance form. This document  detailed 
the level of cover, the cost of the cover  and identified the person to be insured under the 
policy. And I can see that Mr C signed this to confirm he wanted  PPI and he also 
completed his bank details so that a direct  debit could be set up to pay for the policy.  
Ive also considered whether the PPI was compulsory and a condition  of the mortgage, 
but I dont think  it was  I say this because the PPI paperwork was completed  a month 
after the mortgage had already started.
So I think this is strong  evidence that Mr C and Miss T asked for the PPI in 2004 and 
would have been able to see they had a choice.  I think they both decided they wanted 
PPI cover and agreed to purchase it.
Mr C also says they were pressured by the bank manager into taking out the PPI policy, 
he didnt tell us precisely what St Andrews Insurance said or did to make  them  feel that 
way. I accept hes given  us his honest  recollections of what  happened that day, but I 
dont think theres  enough evidence to say St Andrews Insurance  acted  in a way to 
unfairly pressure them  into agreeing  to the PPI.
Ref: DRN66150542St Andrews Insurance says it didnt provide advice, but Mr C says they were  advised to 
take out the policy  the two parties do not agree. But I dont think  it matters  because 
even if St Andrews gave advice  and recommended they purchase the policy,  I dont 
think that advice  was unsuitable.  This is because I think  it was suitable for them, taking 
into account the policy benefits,  cost of cover and their broader financial circumstances 
at that time. And I dont think its likely that they wouldve acted differently; and not taken  
out the policy, if theyd been better  advised and informed.
I say this because:
The policy covered  Mr C and given  his circumstances at the time of the sale, (and taking 
account of the policy conditions),  I am satisfied  he was eligible for the cover.
His circumstances do not suggest that he wouldve been  affected by any of the 
significant limitations  or exclusions  of the cover, such  as those relating to health 
conditions or unusual employment arrangements. He told us he was employed and in 
good health. So he could expect to benefit  from the full extent of the cover provided  by 
this policy.
Whilst Mr H received  some occupational  benefits; six months full sick pay, followed by 
six months half pay, this does  not automatically  mean that the policy was unsuitable. 
This is because if he were unable to work,  the PPI was intended to remove  the 
additional pressure of maintaining mortgage  repayments, at what  would likely be a 
difficult time.  The mortgage was secured against their home  and so the consequences  
of them not being able to keep  up payments could have been  serious.  In the event of a 
successful claim,  the cover  they bought was payable for up to 24 months and this 
wouldve been  in addition  to any other means they may have had in place at the time.  
So although  I cant say why Mr C and Miss T decided to buy this policy, I dont think if a 
recommendation were  given that it was unreasonable. I think  the policy was suitable.
I dont know for certain how the costs of the policy were explained during the conversation 
with the St Andrews  Insurance  sales adviser. The policy provided a monthly  benefit  at a cost 
of around £30 per month. And it seems to me that someone in their circumstances might 
have concluded  that the policy  provided valuable cover at a very reasonable price. And in 
the event that they no longer wanted to have  the benefit of the cover, Mr C and Miss T 
couldve cancelled the policy  at any time without  penalty.
Summary
So, having  considered all the evidence  carefully,  although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, I dont  think  they would have decided  against 
taking it out if they had been better informed. It seems more  likely to me that they had some 
interest in protecting their mortgage repayments  and chose to go ahead with the policy.  
Ref: DRN66150543my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint against 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and 
The Estate of Miss T to accept or reject  my decision before 5 March  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6615054