K820x#14The complaint
Mr S has complained about advice he was given by National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
(NatWest) when he bought a life and critical illness policy  through  them.  
What happened
Mr S applied for a decreasing term life assurance and critical illness  policy in September  
2014 through NatWest. The policy was underwritten by a third-party  company, who I will 
refer to as Company A. The policy began on 1 October 2014 and was for a term of 29 
years. The policy was taken out when Mr S re-mortgaged his property and the initial  sum 
assured was £160,323. Mr S applied for the policy  in person at NatWest and it was sold on a 
non-advised basis. NatWest were  not acting as agents for Company A. 
Mr S was, unfortunately,  diagnosed  with Multiple  Sclerosis (MS) in September 2018  and 
submitted a claim to Company A under his critical illness policy. The claim was turned down. 
Company A said that when Mr S applied for the policy, he was asked questions about  his 
personal medical history  that were answered  incorrectly.
The questions answered incorrectly  related  to Mr S having been  diagnosed  with optic  
neuritis, experiencing blurred vision, having  intermittent tingling in his fingers and having a 
number of tests related  to his vision problems, including MRI scans  that came  back as 
normal. 
Mr S complained to Company A and said that when he applied for the policy  through 
NatWest he told the member of staff there  about his medical history  and was informed that 
he would  not have to disclose medical tests that had come back as negative.
Company A didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it asked clear and unambiguous questions  
and if these had been answered correctly by Mr S it wouldnt  have offered the policy on the 
same terms.  So it declined  the claim, cancelled the policy and refunded  all premiums. Mr S 
then complained to NatWest about  the advice it had given him when it told him he did not 
need to disclose negative test results. 
NatWest didnt uphold  Mr Ss complaint. It said he approached it in September  2014 to apply 
for additional borrowing and spoke to a mortgage advisor. He was then referred to a Bank  
Protection Consultant  to review quotes  for critical illness  and life assurance.  NatWest said 
that during any application it will ask a set of questions. NatWest said the member of staff he 
spoke to no longer  works with it. It said, however, that when Mr S took out his policy he will 
have received confirmation  of his policy and will have been asked to review and to provide 
full disclosure that what has been  applied  for is correct. It said the policy is not sold on an 
advised or recommended basis and the decision  to proceed is his. It said the responsibility  is 
with Mr S to ensure the contract and cover between  him and Company A is correct and to 
raise any queries he has with Company A. 
Mr S was unhappy with the response  from NatWest  and so complained to this service.  He 
said the application form was filled out by the member of staff at the bank, who read the 
questions to him. He said he was told it was important  to disclose known conditions, which is 
why he disclosed that he used to have asthma. But he was told he didnt need  to disclose 
any tests, as they came back negative.  
Ref: DRN68059442Mr S said he doesnt remember whether he was sent documentation  by Company A to 
check and sign, but even if this was sent to him, he probably would have said everything 
was correct given  how long he spent going  through the process with the bank. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said that even if he accepts that Mr S 
was told he didnt need to declare his negative test results,  the onus was still on him to 
determine whether  the cover was suitable for his needs, as this was a non-advised sale, and 
to ensure he made the underwriter aware of all the relevant issues.  He said Mr S was sent 
the application confirmation and could have corrected his answers  to the relevant questions,  
but he didnt do that. 
Mr S was unhappy with what our investigator  said and so this has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
I wasnt party to any of the conversations between Mr S and the member  of staff at the bank  
and so theres no way for me to know exactly what was said.  And the member  of staff no 
longer works for NatWest.  Mr S and NatWest agree that he was asked  a series of questions 
by the member of staff during  the application process.  And I think it seems likely that the 
member of staff filled in the application  form for Mr S. But what cant be known  here, with 
any degree of certainty, is whether Mr S was told that he didnt need to declare negative  
tests on the form. 
But whether  this advice about the negative tests  was given or not I dont think this would  
have made  any difference to the situation Mr S finds himself  in now,  which is that he doesnt 
have a policy with Company A that includes cover for MS, and so he is not able to make  a 
claim following his MS diagnosis.
I say this because  if Company A had been  told about the extent of his vision  problems and 
the intermittent tingling  in his fingers that Mr S had experienced  in the years prior to making 
the application, it would not have offered him a policy that provided cover for MS. And these 
medical issues were captured by other questions on the application form  not related to 
negative tests  that Mr S also answered  incorrectly. And theres  no evidence to suggest Mr 
S provided  this other information to the NatWest  representative. So regardless of what  
advice the member of staff at NatWest may or may not have given  Mr S in relation to just the 
negative tests, he was, unfortunately,  never  going  to be in a position where he could have  
made a successful claim for MS. The fact is Company A was never  going  to offer a policy  
that provided cover for a condition  Mr S was already experiencing symptoms of at the time of 
the application. Ive seen  the underwriting guidance for Company A and so Im satisfied that 
this is the case.  
So, regardless of what advice was given, Im satisfied that Mr S hasnt experienced a 
financial loss because  of the possible actions of the member of staff at NatWest.  
I think its worth adding  that even if the advice was given in the way Mr S said it was, this 
doesnt take away Mr Ss responsibility to check that any information being sent to Company 
A was correct. Its likely  Mr S was sent policy documents by Company A  this would not 
Ref: DRN68059443have been NatWests responsibility  to check after the application had been submitted, so 
Mr S most likely had an opportunity to ensure all questions were answered  correctly. 
I sympathise with Mr Ss situation, but I could only ask NatWest to do more  if I thought  it had 
acted unfairly and Im satisfied it hasnt. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6805944