complaint
Mr W is unhappy with his contents insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited in respect of a claim 
he made after he fell over, accidentally damaging a fish-tank, which caused a lot of water  
damage to his belongings, including flooring. Mr W thinks Ageas settlement  for a number of 
items was insufficient and that it treated him poorly,  including discriminating against him.
background
On 4 December  2017 Mr W notified  Ageas of an accident which  had occurred at his home  
and caused damage. A company was appointed  to assess the damaged items. On
21 December 2017 Mr W advised Ageas  that the company didnt have details  of all the 
damaged items. Also around  this time Ageas authorised Mr W to get the flooring replaced 
as he had someone who could do that before Christmas. Ageas paid Mr Ws invoice for 
replacement flooring less the policy excess of £100.
Towards the end of January 2018 Mr W notified  Ageas  that he had replaced a DVD player, 
a games console,  a mobile phone and a laptop.  He said he hadnt been able to wait any 
longer. He told Ageas the cost of these items but didnt provide any receipts.  Ageas  didnt  
ask Mr W for proof of his cost but made a settlement to him based on what  it would have 
cost it to replace  the items (and a couple of other items), including VAT  £1,883,24. Much  
later, when asked  by this service for proof  of his outlay for these items, Mr W said theyd 
been purchased  by a third-party  and proof  couldnt now be obtained.
Around the same time Ageas made  another  settlement payment to Mr W, this of £868.99. 
Ageas said this was for a pushchair, £89.00 as reimbursement for a table Mr W had 
replaced, and £80 to allow him to replace the fish-tank which he said had cost him that 
much to purchase originally from a friend.
In February, March, April and May 2018 Ageas made further  payments  to Mr W in respect 
of various items. Following these payments, as well as the items mentioned  above,  Mr W 
was unhappy  with the figures Ageas had allowed for the following items:
 Valve amp  £3,148
 Two pre-amps  total £5,047.20
 Reel to reel tape recorder  £500
 Cabling  £600
 Tuner  £199.00
Mr W said that during all negotiations, which were mostly over the phone with Ageas 
adjuster, he felt pressured and coerced. He thought Ageas had sought to take advantage  of 
his disability and that its adjuster had knowingly looked for substandard replacement  costs 
by searching the likes of second-hand internet sales sites. He said hed had to move out of 
his home  for three months and had lots of costs and inconvenience  as a result.
Mr W complained  to this service. Whilst we were  considering  his complaint he noted that at 
renewal of his policy with Ageas,  it had removed  the cover  for accidental  damage.  Mr W felt 
this was unfair. We notified Ageas of Mr Ws concerns and it explained it had decided not to 
offer this cover at renewal due to the increased risk it felt Mr W presented.  Ageas said it 
was happy for us to consider all of Mr Ws concerns as part of this complaint.
Ref: DRN6771034Our investigator explained that we cant consider a complaint  about  discrimination  but that 
we do look at whether  an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably. She felt the adjuster 
could have been more helpful  to Mr W but didnt think any lack of assistance had affected 
the outcome of the claim.  She wasnt persuaded that Mr W had evidenced that any of 
Ageas settlement figures  were insufficient  or that Ageas  should  cover any alternative 
accommodation costs.  But she did think there  had been some initial delays in the claim 
which Ageas  should  pay £250  compensation for.
Ageas accepted the findings.  Mr W did not. Mr W provided some reports  about replacement 
items and these were  sent to Ageas for comment.  Ageas  was also asked to provide some 
further detail about its payments.
I assessed the complaint for a decision to be made. Given  the activity  since  the 
investigators view was issued  and that I didnt agree with everything shed said  I issued 
a provisional decision.  I explained that I felt Ageas  had to make further, substantial  claim 
settlement payments to Mr W. Both parties said they agreed  with my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
As our investigator explained,  I cant consider Mr Ws concerns about  discrimination. But
I have considered whether Ageas treated him fairly. I can see Ageas certainly intended to 
be mindful of his needs as it asked if it could make  any adjustments for him and noted his 
file to try and ensure he was given adequate time to consider and digest matters during a 
meeting with the adjuster.
For its part the adjuster  says it took time during the meeting and spoke to Mr W over the 
phone multiple  times  afterwards, always trying to resolve the claim. Mr W said it was during 
this meeting and these  calls that he felt, amongst other things, coerced. Unfortunately  I 
wasnt present at the meeting, or during the phone  calls,  and apart from part of one call with 
the adjuster, none were recorded.  So, in the main,  I dont  know  how matters were 
conducted or what was said.  I dont  doubt  Mr Ws account of events, but Ive no reason to 
doubt the adjusters either.  It seems  to me that the adjuster tried to be mindful of Mr Ws 
needs and meant to assist him, but his efforts to do so appeared to Mr W as something 
different. That is unfortunate, but Im not persuaded that this means Ageas failed Mr W or 
treated him unfairly.
It isnt clear to me why or when Mr W had to move out of his home. Whilst Mr Ws policy  only 
covers his contents, it isnt unusual  for contents policies to offer some cover  for alternative 
accommodation. Whether Mr Ws does or not, the usual cover in this respect requires the 
policyholder to need to move out of their home because it is uninhabitable due to the loss which  
has occurred and is covered by the policy. Whilst I understand that Mr Ws room, where the 
tank was, must have  been untidy and likely  dangerous for a time, until the debris was cleared  
away, Im not persuaded the property  was uninhabitable. So whilst its unfortunate that Mr W 
had to move  out  and I know that living away from home was particularly difficult  and costly  for 
him  Im not persuaded that Ageas failed him by not assisting him in this respect or making 
any settlement to him.
Turning to the settlement amount Ageas did make,  Ive considered  the figures and the 
related items that make up this sum which remain in dispute. Namely the items bought in 
Ref: DRN6771034late January 2018,  the table and tank, as well as the audio equipment bulleted above.
Mr W cant provide  evidence  of the cost he said was incurred for the items purchased in 
late January 2018.  I dont  think he acted unreasonably by starting to replace thigs  and I can 
understand it was important for him to do so. I cant see that Ageas told him not to, or to 
wait, or indicated it would  soon  be making its own settlement for any items. Therefore, 
whilst Mr W cant evidence what he paid,  I dont think  its fair for Ageas settlement to be 
restricted to what it would  have paid if it had replaced these items. Ageas settlement for 
each (which included  VAT)  was:
 DVD player  £144.74 (£120.62 exc VAT)
 Games console  £274.40 (£228.67 exc VAT)
 Mobile phone  £398.92  (£332.43 exc VAT)
 Laptop  £399.00 (£332.50 exc VAT)
I asked Ageas what discount  had been applied to produce these figures.  It said the level of 
discount varied per item  but that applied to the games console was 18.33%.  Ageas 
should advise  me, in response to this decision, what the other discounts were which it 
applied to create the figures for the DVD player,  the phone and the laptop.  Ageas will have 
to make a payment  to Mr W equivalent  to the difference between its non-discounted price 
and that which it paid to Mr W. To that sum it will have to apply interest* from 
22 January 2018  when  its original settlement for these items was paid, until this further 
payment is made.
Turning to the table; Ageas paid the sum of £89 for this item because it is what  Mr W paid 
for a replacement. I think Mr W feels that was a temporary purchase  and not equivalent to 
the table he had before  but I havent  seen any evidence that is the case   or anything to 
make me think Ageas should  pay him £499.00 to replace this item (which is what hes 
asked for).
Ageas, in responding to enquiries made following  our investigators view has said it will 
make an increased payment for the fish-tank. Mr W had provided evidence  showing it 
would cost him £224.99 to replace this item. Our investigator shared this evidence with 
Ageas in November  2018. Im, therefore,  going to require Ageas to pay Mr W £144.99 
(£224.99 minus the £80.00 already received) plus interest* on that figure from 
30 November 2018 until settlement is made (30 November being the date I think  Mr W 
should reasonably have  been in receipt of this fair sum).
In respect of the audio equipment, in the main Mr W says Ageas settlements are insufficient, 
Ageas says the amounts  are reflective  of the cost Mr W will face to replace the items with 
something similar. Regarding a tape recorder, this is based on second hand values. Mr W has 
provided details  of a new item which is much more expensive  but Ive no way to know  
whether he or Ageas is correct; Mr W says its a reasonably equivalent modern  replacement,  
Ageas says its different and superior. For this and most of the other audio items, I have no way 
to know which party is correct. That means  I dont know that Ageas failed Mr W, so I cant 
reasonably require it to pay anything more.
However, I say this and most because that doesnt  apply  in respect of the two pre-amps 
and the valve  amp. Mr W has provided  two expert  reports in respect  of these items.
One of the reports, from M, recommends a like-for-like replacement for the pre-amps 
which will give a similar  level of fidelity. The expert  says this model costs £19,995. Ive no 
reason to doubt him or his expertise, so Im going to require Ageas to pay Mr W £34,942.80  
(2 x £19,995 = £39,990, minus the £5,047.20  already  paid), plus interest  from 15 April 2019 
Ref: DRN6771034until settlement is made.
The other report, by P provides a recommendation for the valve  amp. Again, Ive no 
reason to doubt this expert   who actually inspected the damaged  item too (along with the
pre-amps). P doesnt give a price  for the recommendation  but Ive had a quick look,  
seeing as Ageas has had the opportunity to but hasnt done  so, and the standard price 
seems to be £9,995.  Therefore, Im going to require  Ageas to pay Mr W £6,847 (being 
£9,995 less the sum already paid of £3,148),  plus interest from 14 March  2018 until 
settlement is made.
P does  make a recommendation for the valve amp as well, but it isnt as clear  as Ms  P 
doesnt give a specific model. That is why Ive relied  on Ms evidence. In terms of being 
relevant experts,  I consider that both outweigh the loss adjuster as they work in the audio  
industry. If Mr W had a cost for either  or both reports and can show  this to me, Ill likely 
require Ageas to reimburse it, plus interest* from the date it was paid until settlement is 
made.
Mr W has said he is unhappy about Ageas not offering him accidental damage  cover as 
part of his 2019 renewal.  I appreciate why this would be upsetting for Mr W but each years 
insurance represents a new contract. As such no insurer is bound to continue offering what 
was offered before; terms can change, as can premium and/or level and/or  content of 
cover. What an insurer decides to offer, or not offer, is a matter for their commercial 
judgement and isnt something we interfere with.
I think Ageas  could have  handled this better. Whilst as I said above,  I dont  think  Ageas 
treated Mr W poorly during the meeting and phone  calls,  it hasnt  always  considered 
evidence provided  by Mr W. I also see that some delays were  caused during the claim at 
the start.  But Im not satisfied, as I also said above,  that Ageas should  have  done  more 
regarding Mr Ws living arrangements or that it is responsible for any upset caused to him in 
living away  from home. I think, in the circumstances, £250  is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the upset Im satisfied Ageas caused  beyond  that which flowed 
naturally from the incident and claim.
Both parties  said they had nothing to add  although  I note I had asked both for some 
specific detail; Ageas was meant to tell me what its discount for the items Mr W had 
replaced was and Mr W was to advise if he had a cost for his expert reports.  But the lack of 
evidence from Ageas doesnt prevent  me from progressing this complaint as it can still 
provide the settlement I provisionally suggested and which  is now set out below as part of 
my final decision award.  And as Mr W hasnt shown  me he incurred any costs  for expert 
reports, I wont require  Ageas  to pay him anything  in this respect.
As the parties havent  contested my provisional  decision, the findings I set out remain  
unchanged. They are now the findings of this, my final decision.
Ref: DRN6771034K822xmy final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to pay Mr W:
An amount equivalent to the difference between what it paid him for the DVD player, 
games console, mobile phone and laptop and what its non-discounted price (inclusive of 
VAT) is. Interest* is to be added to that total sum from 22 January 2018 until settlement 
is made.
£144.99 for a replacement fish-tank, plus interest from 30 November  2018  until 
settlement is made.
£34,942.80 being the replacement cost for two pre amps minus the settlement already 
paid, plus interest*  from 15 April 2019  until settlement is made.
£6,847 being the replacement cost of the valve amp minus the settlement already paid, 
plus interest* from 14 March 2018 until settlement  is made.
£250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to  the dates stated.  If 
Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mr W, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6771034