K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  didnt tell him that his local branch  would  
be closed for refurbishment. Mr M had a wasted visit to the branch as a result.
background
Mr Ms local Nationwide branch was closed for refurbishment. Nationwide  didnt tell Mr M 
about this, so he made a wasted visit to the branch. He considers Nationwide  should 
compensate him for the wasted journey.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that 
Nationwide had advertised the closure in the branch and on its website.  The society also 
directed members to other branches  and online and phone services. The investigator 
considered the steps taken by the society were reasonable. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to same conclusions as the investigator  and for the same  
reasons.
I appreciate it will have  been frustrating for Mr M to discover that the branch was closed. I 
can also see why he might consider Nationwide shouldve contacted  him personally to let 
him know about the closure.
But Nationwide advertised the proposed closure  in branch for several weeks  before it closed. 
And it also put details  about the closure  on its website. It provided details of other branches 
that were open,  together with details of online and phone banking services.
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that the steps  Nationwide took to notify members of the 
closure were  reasonable. And Im also satisfied that it offered reasonable alternative banking 
methods while  the branch was closed.
As Im not persuaded that Nationwide has done  anything wrong, I wont be upholding Mr Ms 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6733581