K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy in 2002  at the same time as they applied for a secured 
loan in one of the banks  branches.  They paid a monthly amount for it. The policy  was in    
Mr Fs sole name and gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs F say it wasnt made clear the PPI was a separate product to the loan and 
they were led to believe the loan approval was dependant on them taking it. I cant know 
what was said in the meeting but Ive thought  carefully about what  Mr and Mrs F told us 
and looked at the paperwork  from the sale. On Mr and Mrs Fs loan agreement it gave 
the options to select  or to decline PPI side-by-side, and they indicated  that they wanted  
it. The cost of the PPI was also set out separately. The bank cant provide their loan 
application form but Ive seen a sample of the document that they are most likely  to have 
completed. This would  also have given Mr F the option to sign a separate section to say 
Yes he wanted  to apply for PPI, or No.
Overall, I think Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs F chose to 
take it out for Mr F. I can understand they might  not remember this given how long ago 
the sale was.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr F. And it seems to have been  right for him based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. Mr F was entitled  to three months sick 
pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this, and for up to 60 months for accident 
and sickness claims and up to 12 months  for unemployment claims.  Mr F says his wife 
would have paid if he couldnt, but thats not suitable alternative protection.  Its not 
guaranteed in the same way as PPI and Mrs Fs circumstances could change. If Mr F 
wasnt working Mrs Fs income  would have  been  needed  to cover all their living 
expenses. So I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr and Mrs F if Mr F was sick or 
lost his job.
Ref: DRN67504902Mr F asks why the policy only covered him when the loan was in joint names, so Ive 
looked at whether Halifax set up the cover  between  Mr and Mrs F correctly. I cant be 
sure it did. But Ive looked at the details of the policy  and can see that, no matter  how 
the cover was set up, the overall cost to Mr and Mrs F wouldve been the same.  This is 
because the cost of the policy is based  on the benefit it would pay. So although the 
policy only covered Mr F  which might not have been right in their circumstances - the 
cost wouldnt have changed if the benefit had been shared between  Mr and Mrs F. This 
means that they would  only be worse off if Mrs F needed to make  a claim. But Ive seen 
no evidence this happened. So, as Mrs F never  needed to make a claim on the policy  
they havent lost out. This means I cant uphold the complaint on this point.  
Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs F all the information they needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. The cost was clear on the loan agreement.  But I dont  know  if the 
bank pointed out the main  things the policy  didnt  cover. However  Mr F doesnt appear to 
have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions. So I dont  think  better information 
about the policy wouldve  changed  their mind about  buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs F have  lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6750490