K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Birmingham  Midshires)  (BM) 
stopped taking payments to her savings  account,  and blocked  access  to it online.
background
Mrs B told us that she had an online savings account with BM. She changed  the account 
that she used  to make regular payments  into this savings  account. But she said that BM 
stopped taking her payments, and blocked her online  access to the account. 
Mrs B said that she had tried to complain about  this online, by phone, by email  and by letter.  
But she said that the on hold times were so long,  she couldnt get through  on the phone. And 
BM hadnt responded to any of the written communications she had sent it.
Mrs B wrote to us again,  a little while after her complaint  was received here, to say that she 
had now received a response from BM. It had offered to pay her £150. But she said that her 
savings account  still wasnt  showing online, and another  direct  debit payment to her account  
had been missed.
BM wrote  to us and said that the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs online savings account  
require her to pay into her savings account from a bank account  in her name. So when  she 
changes the account she uses to pay money into her savings, BM asks her to send a 
cheque in her name, to pay into the account. Thats how it knows  that shes complying with 
its terms and conditions.  
So BM said before it could start taking payments for this account again, it would either need 
Mrs B to send it a cheque  in her name, from the account she was using to fund her savings.  
Or it could transfer the direct debit back to her old account, which it had already verified.
BM said that it had made a mistake in this case. Mrs Bs complaint had been assigned to the 
wrong area of its business, so it hadnt  been picked up as fast as it shouldve  been. BM said 
that it was sorry about that. It thought that if it had responded to her complaint promptly,  then 
this issue couldve been sorted out straight  away, and she wouldnt have missed  any 
payments to her savings.  BM said that it would pay her £150 in compensation. It said that if 
she had paid anything  to lodge  her complaint,  like call costs, then she could send evidence 
of those, and BM would consider paying  them. It also said that if she told it which  regular 
payments into her savings  had been missed because it hadnt dealt with this complaint 
sooner, then it would  work out how much  interest  shed lost, and pay her that too. 
BM wrote  to us again before our adjudicator  reached her view. It said that Mrs B still hadnt  
sent it a cheque in her name, so it hadnt  released the block  on her account just yet. Mrs R 
said that was right,  she hadnt had access to her account for several months now, and her 
fifth direct debit had just failed. 
Our adjudicator wrote to Mrs R, to ask why she hadnt yet provided  the cheque  from the 
account the direct debits  were set up on. She also said that BM had offered  to pay Mrs B her 
call costs, if she had evidence of those.
Mrs R said that the letter  from BM didnt actually ask her to send a cheque  following its letter.  
So she had thought that BM would  resolve the issue then. The letter  BM sent her had said 
that if she was happy  with its resolution,  she didnt need to do anything. 
Ref: DRN65044612Mrs R said that if BM had really needed her to send a cheque,  then she wouldve expected it 
to respond to her letter which shed sent later in July. 
Mrs R said that she would  now ask BM to change her funding  account back to the old 
account, because  the new one didnt  have a cheque book. 
Mrs R said that the explanation  BM had given of what had gone  wrong  didnt tie in with what 
happened, because the savings account vanished  from her online banking immediately 
when she changed  the nominated account. If it was a security  issue, she wouldve expected 
BM to contact her about this at the time. 
Mrs R said that she knew BM had offered to pay for her calls,  but she didnt have itemised  
billing, and she didnt  think  that she should have to spend time and effort  providing  evidence 
of call costs. But she said that this had gone  on for far too long, and she thought  that the 
£150 that BM had offered wasnt enough.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that although she understood that 
information could  potentially have been  made  clearer after Mrs Bs linked account was 
changed, she didnt  think that BM had done  anything wrong in stopping Mrs Bs savings 
account until the new linked account was verified.  And she said that BM had offered to pay 
any interest that Mrs B had lost as a result of its delay in responding to her. 
Our adjudicator said that she knew that Mrs B was upset about the time that it had taken BM 
to respond to her complaints, but our adjudicator said that BM had apologised for that, and it 
had offered £150. It had also offered to cover any costs involved in registering Mrs Bs 
complaint. Our adjudicator thought that was fair. 
Our adjudicator said that the letter BM sent to Mrs B did say that she would need  to send it a 
cheque to remove the hold on her account. As that wasnt  received,  our adjudicator  didnt 
think that BM was wrong not to do any more.
Our adjudicator said that BM had provided a fair and reasonable outcome to Mrs Bs 
complaint, so she wouldnt ask it to do any more.
Mrs B didnt agree with this. She said that she could show  that a cheque  is only required 
when a customer opens a new account. There was nothing requiring  a cheque when the 
funding account  was changed. She sent us a letter from BM which  she said showed that a 
cheque was only required for the first payment into the savings account.  She said that she 
had opened two other accounts, and the funding accounts for those hadnt  been verified by 
cheque. 
Mrs B said that the letter from BM said that she should contact it if she wasnt  happy.  Shed  
done that. Shed sent a reply later in July, and still hadnt received any response  to that. She 
said that we were condoning BM not replying  to her. And she thought  that we had 
misrepresented what  BM said in that letter.  She didnt think  shed been  given  a clear 
instruction to send  a cheque, and if that was what BM wanted, it shouldve replied to her 
letter of late July to say that.
This complaint was then passed to a new adjudicator, as a result  of staff moves  at our 
service. The new adjudicator wrote to check the details of Mrs Bs complaint. Mrs B replied 
confirming the details of her concerns.  She added that her letter to BM of 24 July had asked 
Ref: DRN65044613for access to her savings  for her holidays. And she said that she now expected  a further  
£200 in compensation. 
The new adjudicator considered this case,  but she also said she wouldnt uphold  Mrs Bs 
complaint. She said that the terms of the account did require that the account was funded  
from a linked account in the savers own name. BM had confirmed that its terms and 
conditions meant that if the linked account  was changed, it would require the first payment 
from the new account to be made by cheque. Our adjudicator didnt think  that BM made a 
mistake when it placed a hold on Mrs Bs savings account, because  shed changed  the 
funding account  to a new, unverified account.  Our adjudicator also thought  that BMs letter 
sent in July did tell Mrs B she needed  to send  a cheque. 
Our adjudicator understood that Mrs B thought that BM shouldve responded to her reply of 
24 July. But she said that once a complaint is referred to our service, were  the mediators, so 
its reasonable for BM not to respond  to direct  correspondence on the same complaint. 
Our adjudicator said she didnt think that BM had to pay Mrs B for her calls without evidence 
of the call costs. Our adjudicator said that BM had acted fairly  and reasonably in regards to 
Mrs Bs complaint, so she wouldnt ask it to do more.
Mrs B said that she thought that our second  adjudicator had overlooked the points shed 
made about the letter she received in March 2018 when she changed the funding account. 
That stated  that if she was a new customer,  she would have to make  a payment by cheque. 
And she still thought  that BM shouldve responded to her reply to its July letter.  
Our adjudicator said that BM should  have  at least acknowledged that letter from Mrs B, but 
she didnt think that was a reason for BM to increase its compensation. And she said that 
BM had confirmed that it did require a cheque  from a new linked  account  for the first 
payment from that account. So she didnt change her mind. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said that wed ignored  the terms of the account,  and the written  
evidence that she had provided. She said that there  was no term requiring her to provide a 
cheque on change of nominated account.  That was only required for new customers,  as 
confirmed in the letter shed received. She said it was unacceptable for us to take the banks 
word for what was required on change of account, instead of this letter. Mrs B also said that 
£20 would cover  her telephone costs. 
Mrs B wanted her case to be considered by an ombudsman. Our adjudicator  replied that if 
Mrs B had evidence of her call costs, then that would be passed  to the ombudsman to 
consider. But Mrs B said that she no longer  had that evidence.  She said that she hoped  we 
would take her word  for it, and she explained  how shed reached that figure. She also 
explained the impact  on her of the additional  delay in reaching a solution  to this problem, 
and said she hoped  Id agree that she should  receive more compensation.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  on this 
complaint as our adjudicators.
Ref: DRN65044614Mrs B changed the account she uses to fund her savings account at BM early in 2018.  She 
received a letter from BM in March about that. She has sent us this letter.
I note that the letter  that Mrs B received on changing her linked account details, doesnt in 
fact say that a cheque  will only be required for the first payment into a new account.  It just 
says that if someone  is a new customer, they can expect to receive a form to complete, and 
be asked to send  a cheque. The letter  doesnt say anything about whether a cheque  will also 
be required  for an existing  customer or not. 
I do think that this letter  couldve  been more helpful.  It wouldve been better if the letter had 
made clear that existing  customers might also be asked to verify accounts by sending a 
cheque. But I dont think the content  of this letter contradicts anything BM has told us. 
The terms for Mrs Bs internet saving account require her to fund the account from a linked  
account which must be in her name.  Im satisfied that this term continues to apply for all the 
time that she has the savings account. So it still applies  when she changes the account 
shes using to fund her savings account. Any new account shes using to fund her savings 
account must also be in her name.  
I think it is reasonable for BM to ask Mrs B to show that this account is in her name. I have 
accepted that the letter  she received  when she changed her linked account wasnt  helpful  on 
that point, and I also think that it wasnt  helpful that her complaint wasnt picked up sooner. 
So I think BM had to do something about  this.
I think BM did take some steps to try to put this right. It apologised, and it offered to pay 
Mrs Bs call costs  on receipt of evidence, to pay any missed interest on receipt of information  
about the regular payments she had expected to make to the account, and it offered £150 in 
compensation. 
I think that this provided a fair resolution  to Mrs Bs complaint, up to this point.
Mrs R says that this letter  from BM, which contained these offers,  wasnt clear about what  
she had to do to unlock her account. So she says that its BMs fault that the account  
remained blocked for some time after this. 
I appreciate that the end of this letter says that if Mrs R was content  with the outcome, she 
neednt do any more.  But I think that the letter itself makes  sufficiently  clear  that this wasnt 
the case. The letter explains that Mrs B wouldnt get any contribution to cover  her call costs  
unless she sent in some evidence  of those costs. She wouldnt get any payment to cover  
missed interest unless she told BM what regular payments  shed been  planning  to make to 
the account. And the letter also said To remove the hold, we require  a cheque from the new 
linked account  verifying it is in your name.  Alternatively, we can arrange  to amend your 
linked account  back to your previously  verified details.
For those reasons, I dont  think  it was reasonable for Mrs B to say that she thought  that BM 
was just going to go ahead and remove the block on her account at this stage. I dont think 
that, taken either in isolation  or in the context of the letter as a whole, the section Ive quoted 
was insufficiently  clear about what  she needed to do to unblock  her account.
Mrs B says she wrote to BM in reply. But she hasnt suggested that she either sent BM a 
cheque, or that she asked BM to reinstate her previous payment details. 
Ref: DRN65044615Mrs B said that BM shouldve replied to that letter. She says that if it needed a cheque from 
her, it shouldve said that again. 
I do agree  that BM shouldve acknowledged Mrs Bs letter.  But Ive explained that I think it 
had already made clear what Mrs B needed to do, to unblock her account. And I also note,  
as our adjudicator  mentioned, that BM was in a difficult position  at this point. Our service  
would usually expect  that once a complaint  comes  to us, and a business has issued a letter 
giving the right to refer to our service,  that the business will then deal with the complaint 
through our service. The position becomes extremely complicated if a business is talking 
directly to a complainant at the same  time as we are seeking  to mediate for that 
complainant. So, although I agree with our adjudicator that its good practice for a business 
to send an acknowledgement  if a customer writes  to it directly about a complaint that our 
service is already dealing  with, for the reasons Ive set out I dont think that BM had to send 
Mrs B a substantive reply  at this point.  
Mrs B has also asked  for £20 for her call costs. She says she cant get evidence of this now.  
But BM did ask Mrs B for this evidence  some time ago, and Mrs B said then that she didnt 
want to get it. I dont think thats  BMs fault.  And I dont think  I could  fairly  ask BM to pay for 
Mrs Bs calls now, without  anything to show that this is what  they cost. 
Ive considered carefully all of the arguments that both sides have put forward in this case. I 
think BM did make some  mistakes before its letter of July. But I think its letter did enough to 
put things right at that stage. I know that Mrs B wont agree  with me, but I dont think that BM 
needs to do more than that. Thats because I dont think that the main reason that Mrs Bs 
account wasnt unblocked after this was because of anything that BM did then.
I know that Mrs B will be disappointed, but I dont think  that her complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6504461