K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains Bank of Scotland plc (Lloyds) wont refund  the cost of a chair  he paid for on 
his credit card. He says the item was misrepresented as having  a 10 year warranty.
background
Mr O tells us he purchased, from a retailer Ill refer to as C, a three piece suite in 2011. He 
says he was told at the time that the suite had a 10 year guarantee. The retailer  has since  
changed its name. He used his Lloyds credit card to part pay for the item. In 2017 the chair 
developed faults with the springs  and he asked the retailer to fix it. The retailer  said that 
there was only a 5 year guarantee  and this had now expired.
Lloyds told us it didnt  accept thered been a verbal misrepresentation. It said that the 
retailers website that was live at the time Mr O bought his suite  didnt support Mr Os 
suggestion that there was a 10 year guarantee. It said there were no documents  to confirm 
that Mr O was told that the furniture came with a 10 year guarantee.
Mr O provided  a voice recording from the retailer obtained recently in which  a member of 
staff said that there were  10 year guarantees carried over from when the retailer was called 
by the earlier  name.  Mr O said this showed he was told he had a 10 year guarantee.  
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
insufficient evidence  to show thered been a misrepresentation. He also thought that there 
wasnt enough evidence  to show that the 10 year guarantee was the main reason for buying 
the furniture and that Mr O would have  bought  it anyway. So he wouldnt be making  any 
recommendations to Lloyds.
Mr O didnt accept this and insisted the item had been misrepresented and that he had 
definitely been told that the guarantee was 10 years. As Mr O didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view an ombudsman has been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr O is very upset about whats happened and feels  he was misled and that 
people dont believe him. Im sorry hes had to experience such an unfortunate situation. 
Because of the particular nature of the issue about  which this complaint arises  - Mr O didnt 
think he had been  misled until the need to claim on the guarantee arose  after several years.
In order to fully explain  my decision its necessary to outline how we approach complaints of 
this sort. And its important to distinguish between the actions of Lloyds and C. Lloyds is 
responsible for its own actions - but its only responsible for Cs actions if they amount to a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit  to buy goods  or services.  In this case Mr O has used 
his Lloyds credit card to pay towards  the cost of the suite. Section  75 also requires  the price  
of the item or service  to be within certain limits  - although it doesnt  require  the whole cost to 
be paid for by credit. 
Ref: DRN63599632I dont apply the law directly - so Im not deciding if Section 75 applies here.  Rather, Im 
required to decide  what, if anything, Lloyds should do to resolve this complaint. In doing that, 
I must decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other things)  
any relevant law. Relevant law includes Section 75.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a customer to act upon it. So 
if, as he alleges,  Mr O was told the suite had the benefit of a 10 year guarantee - and it did 
not - then that would  amount to a misrepresentation. 
Misrepresentation complaints are often difficult to resolve as they usually concern what was 
said between two parties on a previous occasion. Whilst I am certain there would have been 
a discussion about  the guarantee I cant be sure of what  precisely  was said.  Thats important 
because such exact detail can be the difference between a misunderstanding and a 
misrepresentation.
Sometimes theres documentary evidence  which  might assist - but here theres  nothing  other 
than the recollection  of the parties.  Mr O is sure of what he was told and the sales  person is 
no longer available to ask.
The company has offered  a variety of guarantee  periods since  2011. The website at the time 
Mr O bought his sofa set out that the guarantee was for 5 years.  Later the company offered 
guarantees for 10 years and my understanding from the recording provided by Mr O is that 
the guarantee period  is now 20 years. I cant say from listening to the recording that the staff 
member confirmed that the guarantee period  was 10 years when Mr O bought his chair.
 
At the time Mr O bought  his suite,  it is likely that there were conversations  about a number  of 
matters including  price  and delivery  as well as the guarantee  period. This would likely have 
been supported  with some sales documentation  although I can understand why Mr O may 
not be able to locate it now. 
Whilst I dont doubt  Mr Os recollection, without anything further its just not possible to say 
theres been a misrepresentation  as opposed  to a misunderstanding.  And so Im unable  to 
uphold the complaint.
Mr O has also complained  about  how Lloyds have treated him during the handling of this 
complaint. Lloyds has accepted there  has been  some delays and offered £150 to 
compensate Mr O for the poor service.  I consider that this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and so I cant  ask it to do anything more. I understand my decision will 
disappoint Mr O and he will feel let down but based  on the evidence Ive seen it would not be 
fair and reasonable of me to conclude thered been  a misrepresentation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63599633
Ref: DRN6359963