K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs B say Santander  UK Plc (at the time Abbey National) mis-sold them the 
MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B, 
and I appreciate they have waited a long time for conclusion to their complaint. Ill explain 
the reasons for my decision below.
Mr and Mrs B applied  for a shared ownership  mortgage with Santander. They were sold an 
endowment mortgage  with an MPPI policy. Mr and Mrs B say that they were led to believe 
that they had to take out MPPI as it was a requirement of the type of mortgage they were 
applying for  and that they had no choice but to take out their mortgage with Santander as it 
was the only lender  in their offering a mortgage on a shared ownership basis.
Mr and Mrs B also say that they made  a complaint  about their endowment in 2005,  and this 
was found in their favour. They say that this shows that the MPPI mustve  also been mis-
sold to them as it came  with that kind of mortgage.
I wasnt there at the time, so I cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs B, but I accept that 
they have given their honest recollections  of the time. Santander  has provided copies of their 
mortgage application and MPPI application. Looking at the paperwork,  the MPPI  is 
presented as an optional product on the mortgage  application, with a clear choice to take or 
decline the policy. There are also a number of different  options  for the type of mortgage 
repayment  including  Endowment Policy, Pension Policy, or Repayment method. It also 
asks if the property is being  purchased under a shared  ownership  scheme.  Mr and Mrs B 
have signed both documents.
Theres no indication on the paperwork  that an MPPI policy is required for any kind of 
repayment method,  or due to the property being  purchased under a shared ownership 
scheme. Had Mr and Mrs B been told differently, I think that they wouldve questioned  this at 
the time.
So taking everything in to account,  I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt 
have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
they cant remember this as it was so long ago. And while Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about 
their endowment may have been  found  in their favour, I dont think this has any bearing on 
this complaint about MPPI. 
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the MPPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN66822482Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the MPPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said - but these points dont  change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give Mr and Mrs B some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules  and guidance  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Santander 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the MPPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6682248