K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Instant Cash Loans  Limited  (trading as Payday UK) was irresponsible 
to lend her money.
background
Payday UK gave  Mrs F five loans between  October 2012 and March 2015.  
Mrs F has instructed a third party  claims  management company to assist  her to bring  this 
complaint. But for clarity I will refer to Mrs F in this decision. Mrs F wants  Payday UK to 
refund the interest that she paid and amend her credit file.
Payday UK recorded Mrs Fs monthly  income  to be £1,200. It didnt record any detailed 
information about Mrs Fs outgoings,  including credit commitments  for the first four loans. 
Instead it looks as though  Payday UK relied  on the Office for National Statistics expenditure 
information to decide how much available  income Mrs F was likely to have each month.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mrs Fs complaint  be upheld. The adjudicator  thought 
the checks went far enough  for loans one and two. He thought that Payday UK shouldve 
been doing more before agreeing loans three to five. But as Mrs F wasnt  able to give us 
copy bank statements for the relevant period or confirm her expenses, the adjudicator  
couldnt say what  better  checks  wouldve shown.
 
Mrs F disagrees with the adjudicators recommendation  and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint but it isnt clear  what she disagrees with.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payday UK was required to lend responsibly. It needed to carry out checks  to decide 
whether Mrs F could afford to pay the loans back.  These checks  needed  to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount to be repaid, the length of the agreement and any borrowing 
history. But there wasnt a set list of checks it had to do.
loans one and two
The repayment on both loans one and two was £129.95. Mrs F told Payday UK that her 
monthly income was around £1,200. As this was early on in Mrs Fs lending  history and the 
repayments represented a fairly modest  proportion  of her declared  income,  I think  Payday 
UK did enough to decide  whether the loans were  affordable.
Based on Mrs Fs monthly income,  it appeared as though  she could afford  to repay loans  
one and two. I cant  say that Payday  UK was wrong to agree  to lend.
loans three  to five
By the time Mrs F asked for her third and fourth  loan, Payday UK could see a history of 
regular borrowing. The repayment on loan three  was higher than for the previous two loans.  I 
Ref: DRN62533252think Payday UK shouldve been  prompted  to ask Mrs F about her living costs and regular 
outgoings. 
For loan five there was a significant gap and this was effectively a new chain of lending. But 
for this loan Payday UK expected Mrs F to repay  a higher amount than she had previously  
borrowed. The repayment on loan five was a significant proportion of Mrs Fs declared 
monthly income. I think that for loan five, Payday UK shouldve  also asked about Mrs Fs 
other short term lending  commitments in addition to the information it gathered about her 
normal outgoings. It wouldve been  reasonable to expect Payday UK to carry out a 
comprehensive check and try to verify Mrs Fs income and expenditure.
I dont have any evidence  to suggest  that Payday UK carried out any of the checks that I 
think were proportionate before agreeing loans three  to five. But just because I dont 
consider Payday UKs  checks went far enough  doesnt mean  that I must necessarily go on to 
uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Id need  to be persuaded that proportionate checks  wouldve 
shown Payday UK that Mrs F couldnt  afford  to repay the loans in a sustainable way  that is 
without borrowing further.
Unfortunately, Mrs F hasnt been able to give us any bank statements from the relevant  time 
that she was borrowing  from Payday UK or details of her expenditure. This means I cant 
decide what proportionate checks wouldve shown.
Based on the information that I have,  I cant reasonably find that Payday UK was wrong to 
lend to Mrs F. So I dont require it to pay her any compensation. Im sorry that my decision is 
likely to disappoint Mrs F.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6253325