K820x#14complaint
Mr G applied for a further advance with Coventry Building Society and was unhappy with the 
conduct of the surveyor  appointed to value the property, and the valuation figure he gave. 
He says Coventry has treated him unfairly by basing  its lending decision on that valuation.
background
Mr G bought this property in March 2017  for £340,000. In May 2018  he borrowed some  extra  
money and at that time the property was valued at £350,000.
In December 2018 Mr G applied for another further advance on his mortgage, and said the 
property was worth £395,000.
Mr G says the surveyor turned up late and was abrupt and discourteous.  He says the 
surveyor measured the size of the extension, but refused  to listen  when Mr Gs partner 
attempted to explain the works  that had been  done, saying it was irrelevant as hed be 
valuing the property  as he saw it that day. Mr G says the surveyor  left after less than five 
minutes having failed to inspect the majority of the property. 
The report  was then provided and valued  the property at £375,000, noting that works 
needed to be completed.
Mr G put forward  an appeal based on information on Zoopla and his views of the potential 
value of the property once  the works were completed.  Coventry considered that and looked  
at comparable properties in the area that had sold, but wasnt  willing to consider lending  
based on a higher valuation figure.
Unhappy with this Mr G complained to the surveying firm and Coventry. Neither  business  
upheld his complaint.
Our investigator said we couldnt deal with a complaint about  the surveyor, only about  
Coventrys actions or inactions. And having considered the complaint she thought Coventry  
hadnt done anything wrong.  Mr G didnt agree and so its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr G wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
Ive carefully considered  all the legal arguments Mr G has made. But the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts. The rules  I need to apply are 
our rules  (which are known as DISP and are published by the Financial Conduct Authority). 
For that reason  I wont be responding to the various  legal  arguments Mr G has made, and 
instead will concentrate  on what I consider fair and reasonable. It may be the courts would 
be willing  to look at this matter in the manner Mr G would  prefer,  but were not bound  by what 
a court  may - or may not - do. If Mr G thinks hed be successful in court then he can, of 
Ref: DRN60905632course, look at taking legal action. However I would urge him to take good, independent, 
professional legal advice before doing so.
Coventry doesnt have  the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified  surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case  by appointing  a member  of the Royal  Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS). Coventrys not accountable for the conduct of the individual  surveyor or 
any action (or inaction) by the surveyor or the firm he works for. 
Coventry is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider  
complaints against  it for things a separate  business  did (or didnt do). As Mr G is aware, the 
surveying firms complaints process  comes under RICS. All I can consider against Coventry 
is if it discharged its duty in instructing  a suitable  firm of surveyors, and having considered 
everything Im satisfied it did.
Mr G says Coventry could have done  more, such as instructing a second  survey.  Hes also 
complained that the process hasnt  been fair, transparent and dealt with in a consistent 
manner.
I understand why Mr G feels a second valuation would have helped  him, but I can also 
understand why Coventry said no to that. Even  if a second valuation  had been carried out 
and came in with the property valued for the amount Mr G felt it was worth, why should 
Coventry consider  that second valuation  more valid? Mr G may say that the first valuation 
was flawed, but it went through an appeals process  and the comparable  evidence simply 
didnt support the property being worth  - in its state at the time of the survey, which is what  
Coventry has to base its lending decision on - what  Mr G said.
Even if a second valuation had been carried out and it had come in at the higher amount, Im 
sure Mr G can see why Coventry would be concerned about lending  him a fairly high loan to 
value based on a valuation figure that an earlier surveyor had said was too high.
Coventry instructed  a suitably qualified surveyor, it went  through an appeals  process, and it 
was entitled to rely on its commercial discretion to not instruct a second valuation.  
Mr G says Coventry hasnt disclosed any evidence its relied  upon.  Coventry  doesnt have to 
disclose commercially  sensitive information  to Mr G, such  as full details of the process  it 
went through for the appeal,  but Mr G is free to make a subject access  request to Coventry if 
he wants further information, and Coventry  will consider that request in line with its 
information rights obligations.
Having considered everything  I dont think Coventry needed to do any more. So, while  I can 
appreciate that the process may have been frustrating for Mr G, I dont feel I can reasonably  
conclude that this was the fault of Coventry.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Ref: DRN60905633Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6090563