K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Virgin Money Plcs response  when he experienced financial 
difficulties. The business continued to charge interest and fees.
background
Mr H said he contacted  Virgin Money  in May 2018.  He was experiencing some financial 
problems. Virgin Money stopped applying  charges  and interest to his account in August. And 
it agreed to accept reduced  payments  of £68 per month. But it still charged him fees and 
interest in June and July totalling £337.14.  Mr H wrote to Virgin  Money in September  and 
November about  the charges. But he didnt receive  a reply. And he wants  the June and July 
debits refunding to his account.
Virgin Money confirmed  itd updated  its records to show Mr H was experiencing financial 
hardship. Itd accepted  Mr Hs offer of £68 per month as he couldnt meet  the minimum 
required payment  for a formal arrangement. And itd stopped any further fees and interest on 
the account. But it hadnt been able to do so until itd received income and expenditure 
information from Mr H.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Virgin Moneys  response. So he contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He could see Mr H had written to Virgin Money about his 
financial situation in May 2018. But that didnt mean the business was obliged  to stop the 
interest and charges straight away. Virgin Money had carried  out an assessment of Mr Hs 
financial situation. And based  on the income and expenditure received on 3 August it 
confirmed Mr H couldnt afford a payment plan. But itd stopped  any further interest  and 
charges from that point.  And he felt Virgin  had acted fairly.
Mr H didnt agree. He didnt think Virgin Money  had complied with its obligations under the 
Financial Conduct  Authority rules. It shouldve  treated him with forbearance and due 
consideration from the date he told Virgin Money he was in financial difficulty. So hes asked 
for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When Mr H contacted Virgin Money about  his financial difficulties I would  expect the 
business to respond  positively  and sympathetically. Mr H says Virgin  Money acknowledged 
his circumstances.  But he feels it couldve responded sooner. It continued to apply interest 
and charges for another  two months.  So Ive looked carefully at everything thats happened.
Mr H contacted Virgin Money in May 2018.  He could no longer afford the minimum monthly  
payment. And he only wanted to be in contact  by correspondence rather  than telephone.
 Mr H also appears to have cancelled his monthly direct debit payment. Virgin Money sent a 
letter to acknowledge  his correspondence. And it suspended any phone calls about  his 
account. It also sent an income  and expenditure form so it could review Mr Hs finances. And 
I think thats a reasonable response. But Virgin Moneys records  show  it didnt receive  a 
reply from Mr H. So it sent further letters in June and July.
Ref: DRN60131302Mr H says he was working  long hours. And he was only able to return  the form in July. 
Having considered Mr Hs information  Virgin Money  felt he wouldnt be able to afford a 
payment plan. The income and expenditure form Ive seen is dated  29 July 2018.  And 
Virgin Moneys records show  it was considered  on 3 August. The business suspended any 
further charges  or interest on the account from that date.
I dont think it was unfair of Virgin Money to continue to apply interest and charges while  it 
waited for further  information from Mr H. From what Ive seen it sent the income  and 
expenditure form in May 2018. And it continued  to correspond by letter during the following 
months. But Mr H wasnt  able to return the form until the end of July. And once Virgin Money 
had considered the information it stopped all interest and charges.
Mr H has drawn  attention to the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  rules  CONC 7.3 which 
determine how a business should  respond to customers in default or arrears. As he correctly 
points out CONC  7.3.4 states a firm must  treat customers  in default or in arrears difficulties 
with forbearance  and due consideration. And he feels Virgin  Money only did so from August 
2018. Hes unhappy  it continued to apply  charges  and interest for two months after he first 
informed them of his circumstances.
CONC 7.3.5 gives examples of treating a customer with forbearance, including  considering 
suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges. And I think its 
important to note the rule says consider rather than must immediately.
I realise Mr H feels the interest  and charges for June and July were unfair and perhaps  
made in error. And hes raised a complaint against a different bank which agreed to back-
date a refund.  But I have  to consider each case on its own merits. 
Ive looked carefully  at everything Mr H has said. And I do sympathise with the situation he 
finds himself in. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think  Virgin Money has done 
anything wrong. Mr H didnt make any payments to the account for two months. But hed 
informed Virgin Money he was in financial difficulty. So it sent an income and expenditure 
form so it could see how much he might be able to pay in future.
Once itd received the form it agreed to stop applying  any further charges or interest to the 
account. Virgin Money didnt chase Mr H by telephone.  Instead  it sent a number of letters 
requesting more information  and explaining the current situation. So I cant really  say it 
hasnt tried to contact him appropriately.
I know Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think Virgin  Money has dealt with 
the matter fairly. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Ref: DRN60131303Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6013130