K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs  (RSA)  decision to decline a 
theft claim under his home insurance policy.
background
Mr H had home insurance with RSA and made  a claim when his garage  was broken into. He 
said the right hand corner  of the garage  had been forced open and twisted away from the 
frame, and that the door had been  difficult to lock since  the incident. 
RSAs specialist contractors attended site and concluded there was no evidence that force  
had been used to gain entry and there  was damage which was consistent with wear and 
tear. They stated there  are no signs of forced entry, to the garage door or the frame. Our 
engineer has advised  the door seems  to have had issues with locking for a long time before 
the claim,  and entry  may have been  gained due to the lock catching  and not being  fully 
engaged, as the garage is out of square at the bottom. The door is catching on the timber  
threshold and has been  for some time which is evident due to worn paint on the door.
RSA said the damage to the garage door was long standing  in nature and due to wear and 
tear, and, relying  on the security  endorsement  in the policy, it declined  the claim.
Mr H complained to RSA about its decision  to decline the claim.  He said the door was eight 
years old, was locking  fully before the incident  and had no prior issues. But RSA maintained 
its position, explaining that the available evidence suggested entry was gained  because  the 
door wasnt securely locked.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. Hes explained  he always  put his 
car in the garage and locked the door. He discovered the right hand  side of the garage  had a 
bend where the thieves must  have  prized  it open  to gain access  and unlock the door from 
the inside. Hes said he didn't stop to take photos as he wanted to bend  the door back  into 
shape to ensure that it locked. Hes said that now he has to bang the door shut to ensure  its 
locked, whereas it previously locked  into place without any trouble. 
Mr H has said he showed the policeman,  the Police Community  Support  Officers (PCSO) 
and his neighbour that the door was twisted after the brake  in but that it had been repaired 
by the time RSAs  specialists attended  eight  weeks  after the incident, at which  point, the 
engineer aligned the door at the bottom  right hand corner. 
RSA commented  when  we attended  on the 9th January 2018 the policy  holder advised  our 
engineer that the top right hand  corner was twisted away from the frame and he straightened 
this himself to enable the door to lock. We believe in our professional opinion that if the door 
had of become  twisted during a break in there would have been some signs of forced entry 
however as you can see from the photos below we were unable to find any evidence  of 
thisAlso if a garage door is bent/twisted in anyway this is always extremely  difficult to put 
back into place. In most cases when a garage  door is damaged in such manner we have to 
replace. There would also have been some sign/dents in the door that would have  shown 
where this was twisted back into place. 
It maintained the wear  and tear was consistent  with use over time and not a single event 
where forced  entry was used. It said the engineers report  was from a specialist company 
Ref: DRN61607842responsible for dealing  with garage doors and there was no evidence to support that the lock 
was engaged at the time of the theft.  
Having considered RSAs comments,  our investigator decided  RSAs decision to decline the 
claim was reasonable,  explaining he could understand  why RSA thought the door showed  
no signs of a break in. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He 
feels RSA has been inconsistent. It said the door hadnt been  locking correctly, initially  
suggesting the door wasnt shutting properly as the door frame was out of alignment. It then 
said it was because of a strip of wood Mr H put there to stop leaves going under the door,  
but when he explained hed put it there  the year before,  and the door didnt even go over the 
strip, it simply  said the door had been  left unlocked. 
He also argues that, contrary to what RSA said about there being no signs  of forced  entry, 
the door had scratches to the paint at the corner that was forced  open.  And, as well as the 
twisted door, the frame  had moved and had to be wedged back  in to place. There  was also 
paint missing under the right hand  lock. He said RSA didnt do an inspection  until eight 
weeks after the incident by which time it had been  straightened.  
He explains that RSA tried to say the wooden  strip was stopping  the door from shutting but 
that the photographs  clearly show concrete  residue  on top of the strip and that this means 
the door wasnt touching the strip.  And he believes the garage  mightve been broken  into by 
professional thieves using an air shim which would have allowed them to twist the door 
enough to get a wire with a loop on to slip the central lock across unlocking the door with 
little damage.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
The policy clearly states RSA will not provide any cover for theft or attempted theft 
and/malicious acts of vandalism at your home unless the appropriate security devices listed  
below are fitted where shown and brought into operation with all doors  and windows locked 
shut: when your home is left without any occupants...
RSAs specialists said there appeared to be pre-existing issues with the lock meaning  it 
didnt catch properly. This would be consistent  with wear and tear over time and could mean 
that the garage door wasnt properly secured at the time of the break in. If this was the case, 
or the door wasnt  locked at all, then RSAs decision to decline the claim on the basis of the 
security endorsement is fair.
Mr H feels that RSAs  reasoning is inconsistent, and I accept that it is. But Im satisfied it all 
supports RSAs position that there was no forced entry. He insists he wouldve locked  his 
garage door because he keeps his car in the garage, and I have no reason to doubt that. But 
Im mindful that if there was a pre-existing problem with the lock, he might have been 
mistaken in his belief  that the garage door was properly locked on the night the garage was 
broken into. 
Ref: DRN61607843Mr H has explained that the bottom right hand  corner of the door was bent and the door was 
out of alignment  following the break  in. Hes also explained that the specialist said the door 
had been catching on the block of wood hed put there to prevent leaves getting in, but this 
wasnt possible as there was still residue of cement on the wood which wouldnt be there if 
the wood was catching and also the wood doesnt  go underneath the door and so it wouldnt 
have been catching anyway. Hes submitted photos which  he believes show the garage door 
wasnt poorly maintained  and that the wood had remnants of the concrete on the surface at 
the top that would  have come off if the door was scraping over it. 
RSAs argued that there was no evidence of a break  in. Mr H says there was damage but 
that he bent the door back into place so that he could lock it. RSA doesnt accept this 
account. Its said it would be difficult to put the door back into place and that there  would be 
some sign that this had been done  in the form or dents  or creases.  I find this argument  
persuasive and I accept you would reasonably expect to see some signs of force if all of the 
locks were engaged and the door was bent back into place after it was damaged.
Its for Mr H to show that there was a break in using forced entry.  And in bending the door 
back into place, hes taken away RSAs  opportunity  to verify his account, which its entitled  to 
do. Hes said the police  officer and the PSCOs who attended his house  saw that the door 
was damaged as well as his neighbour, but he hasnt submitted any evidence to support 
this. And the fact the incident was recorded as a break in isnt evidence forced entry  which 
the policy requires  for the claim to be covered. 
Mr H says this might  have been a sophisticated theft and has described a method which  
would have enabled thieves to get into the garage without leaving much damage. Ive 
considered this point  and I accept it is possible. However this theory is at odds with Mr Hs 
account that the door was forced open and twisted away  from the frame.  
I accept that there is some damage but its not of a nature that I would expect to see 
following a forced  entry  and in the absence of satisfactory evidence  to show the door was 
forced open and twisted away, Im not satisfied that Mr H has shown the garage was broken 
into using force.
For the above reasons Im satisfied that RSAs decision to decline the claim based on the 
security endorsement was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61607844my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6160784