K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mr G says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Bank of Scotland had to make  it clear to Mr G that he had a choice 
about it. But Mr G says the PPI was added automatically, without his permission.
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of Mr Gs application form for the credit card. This 
included a box to show whether he wanted to take PPI. And there is a cross in the box. The 
cross appears to be pre-printed, but there  are other details on the form that are also pre-
printed, which  suggests there was a conversation between Mr G and Bank of Scotland  
before the form was printed out.
Based on what I understand about  Bank of Scotlands sales practices at the time, I think its 
likely that PPI was mentioned during  this conversation. And that Bank  of Scotland  made it 
clear to Mr G that he had a choice  about it. So I think its likely Mr G chose to take the PPI, 
knowing he didnt have  to.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  the PPI to Mr G, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him. And, based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover.
Mr G has said he wouldve  received  sick pay from his employer and had significant savings 
he couldve  used to make  his repayments if he wasnt earning. But the policy couldve paid 
out for longer than his sick pay and savings wouldve been able to replace his salary. And it 
wouldve paid out in addition to them. So he wouldnt have needed to rely on his savings if 
he wasnt earning and could spend  his sick pay and savings on other expenses, rather  than 
his credit card repayments.  So I still think the policy was right for him.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr G if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr G paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already  offered to give Mr G back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Mr G.
Ref: DRN62354362my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6235436