K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA)  acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with their claim under travel  insurance. They  want the claim 
paid.
background
Mr and Mrs L had a travel insurance  policy with IPA. They  said that they disclosed their pre-
existing medical conditions to IPA. Mrs L became  ill due to an upper respiratory  tract 
infection and was unable to travel  (though the medical evidence showed she also had knee 
pain and only this was referred to in the second  form completed  by a doctor). Mr and Mrs L 
made a claim for the cancellation costs  of a trip abroad, but the claim wasnt  accepted. IPA 
said Mrs L was awaiting treatment when  the policy was taken out. It said that the policy  
excluded claims directly  or indirectly  arising  from circumstances known to consumers before 
they took out the policy or booked a trip, which could reasonably have been expected  to lead 
to cancellation  or curtailment of the trip.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to IPA. It said that Mrs L hadnt declared  medication prescribed by 
dry eyes,  indigestion  and labryinthitis. IPA also said that Mrs L hadnt declared a visit to a 
pain clinic  and the policy didnt provide cover if the consumer was awaiting treatment  or 
investigations. Mr and Mrs L said this clinic  was to advise regarding coping  with her 
osteoarthritis, which had been declared, as had the pain relief she was prescribed.  IPA said 
if it had been told about the pain clinic appointment, it wouldnt have offered any insurance.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to us. The investigators  view was that IPA felt Mrs L had 
misrepresented her medical  condition and had incorrectly said that she wasnt waiting for 
treatment when she had been referred to a pain clinic a few weeks  before the policy was 
taken out. She noted that IPA didnt discuss the situation with Mr and Mrs L and just rejected 
the claim.  Mr and Mrs L had told this service that as theyd  moved,  they werent able to 
attend the clinic and had decided not to ask for a new referral  this was why the answer 
no was given  to the question about  waiting for treatment. The investigator didnt think  this 
was a mis-representation as no was the accurate answer; Mrs L wasnt waiting for a clinic 
appointment. She said IPA should re-assess the claim and if it made payment, it should pay 
interest.
IPA disagreed. It said that Mrs L had chosen  to ignore medical  advice. The investigator 
agreed that Mrs L had chosen not to follow medical  advice, but the reason for the rejection of 
the claim was the alleged  failure to disclose  Mrs L was waiting  for treatment, which  the 
investigator found wasnt the case.  IPA said Mrs L shouldve declared that she was under 
investigation, whether  or not she intended to attend  the clinic.  The investigator noted  that 
under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA),  Mrs L 
had answered  the question  correctly  and not mis-represented the position.  IPA said not 
attending the clinic was still being  under investigation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61329372The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  CIDRA  is relevant to this 
complaint, and Ive borne  this in mind when reaching my view.
Mr and Mrs L cancelled the trip due to Mrs Ls ill-health. While they said the primary reason 
they cancelled  was due to Mrs Ls infection, the claim forms completed by the doctors 
involved say the main (or only reason) for the claim was Mrs Ls right knee pain. Its fair and 
reasonable for IPA to consider based on this evidence  that the knee pain is the core reason 
for the cancellation.  
Its important to look at whether the information provided by Mr and Mrs L was incorrect (or 
incomplete). If the information  was correct, theres  no misrepresentation. IPA says that the 
information provided was incorrect as Mrs L was waiting for an investigation at the pain 
clinic. Mr and Mrs L say that it wasnt  incorrect as Mrs L wasnt  waiting for the investigation - 
she wasnt able to go to the clinic due to the move and had decided  to ignore the medical  
advice that she should attend.  
Its for IPA to prove that the information  given  was incorrect or incomplete.  I dont think that it 
has done so in this case. It didnt talk to Mr and Mrs L to find out more  about the pain clinic. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L took reasonable care in answering questions, for example they 
disclosed the osteoarthritis and the pain relief taken by Mrs L. I think  a reasonable consumer 
would think that if they werent awaiting a clinic appointment and had no intention  of 
attending such a clinic,  they werent  awaiting treatment or investigation. I dont think the 
question as put to Mr and Mrs L captured the complexity of her specific  circumstances, but I 
do think they took reasonable care to answer the question asked by IPA.
This means  I dont  think Mr and Mrs L have  made  a qualifying misrepresentation and the 
claim should be re-assessed subject to the remaining policy terms. I cant say that the claim 
should be paid yet as I can see there are issues to be considered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Inter Partner  Assistance  SA should 
reconsider the claim. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject  my decision before 26 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6132937