K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement  with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS)  reached maturity.
background
In December 2014 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a contract purchase 
agreement with MBFS. The agreement  reached maturity in December 2017.
Mr S returned the car to a Mercedes dealership in December  2017. In March  2018  he 
received an invoice from MBFS detailing end of contract charges. The charges  related to 
damage to the front wheels  and the wrong tyre specification on the front wheels.
Although Mr S negotiated a reduction in the charges  with MBFS, he remains unhappy for the 
following reasons:
The dealership  accepted the car when he returned it and gave him no indication that 
there was any chargeable damage
The length of time which elapsed between  Mr S returning the car and receiving  the 
invoice meant that he could no longer   go back to the company  who supplied the 
tyres 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said it wasnt fair of MBFS to ask Mr S to pay for 
replacement tyres because there had been a  delay in advising  him that they were  of the 
wrong specification,  which  meant  that Mr S was no longer in a position to pursue this with 
the company who supplied  the tyres. The investigator also said it wasnt fair to ask Mr S to 
pay for the damage  to the front wheels  because there had been a delay of almost two 
months before the car was inspected and no evidence that Mr S had been informed of any 
damage or possible charges when he returned the car. The investigator recommended  that 
all charges for damage to the front wheels  and all charges for replacement  tyres should be 
waived.
MBFS didnt agree. It accepted the investigators  view in relation to the damage to the front 
wheels but in relation to the tyres  it said that Mr S had returned  the car with the wrong  
specification tyres and having returned the car would not have  been  able to take the car 
back to the tyre supplier  in any event. MBFS said it was still seeking  to charge Mr S £345.22 
for replacement tyres.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Charges for replacement  tyres
Mr S replaced the tyres on 11 November 2017 before he returned the car to the dealership. I 
dont doubt that Mr S asked the company who supplied the tyres to replace them  like for 
like but it appears that this didnt happen  because whilst the size and speed  rating  of the 
tyres were correct, the replacement tyres didnt have run flat capability.
Ref: DRN60999642The terms of the agreement require Mr S to make sure that the correct  tyres were fitted 
when he returned  the car. However,  Mr S returned  the car to the dealership in mid 
December 2017  but it wasnt until 25 March 2018 that MBFs advised him of the charges for 
the incorrect tyres.
The BVLRA guidelines say that customers should be advised  of any charges no later than 4 
weeks after the vehicle  was returned.  In this case, a period of approximately 3 months 
passed before Mr S was advised of the charges.
MBFS has explained that the delay  was caused  by a lack of communication  from the 
dealership. It said it wasnt made  aware that Mr S had returned  the car and that it didnt 
collect it until 27 February 2018.
Im not persuaded by this explanation because Mr S has said he notified BCA on the day he 
returned the car. Because BCA was acting as agent for MBFS I would have expected  it to 
pass this information  on to MBFS.
Mr S has also said that, in response  to an email he received  from MBFS on 24 January  
2018, he advised MBFS that he had returned  the car to the dealership on 
15 December 2017. 
On the evidence it appears  that there has been a breakdown in communication between 
BCA and MBFS. Even if BCA didnt  advise MBFS that the car had been returned, Im 
satisfied that MBFS was made aware  of this by Mr S in January 2018. There is no 
explanation for the further delay  of approximately one month before the car was collected.
Im of the view that MBFS didnt  follow the BVLRA  guidelines because  it failed to advise 
Mr S of any charges no later than 4 weeks after the car was returned. The delay between 
Mr S returning the car and being advised  of the charges is significant (approximately 3 
months) and unreasonable. Because of this I dont think its fair to ask Mr S to cover the cost 
of replacement tyres. 
Damage to wheels
Mr S has said that there wasnt any damage  to the wheels  when  he returned the car. Hes 
also said that the car was inspected by the dealership when he returned it and he wasnt  
made aware  of any chargeable  damage.
The dealership hasnt been  able to provide any information at all about the return  of the car. I 
find this surprising because I would have expected there to be a process  in place when  a 
customer returns a car. The fact that no information is available  makes  me question whether 
the dealership  has dealt  with the return of the car with the appropriate standard of care and 
attention. If there was damage on the car when  it was returned I would have expected  the 
dealership to point  this out and record it. Because theres no evidence to suggest that the 
car had damage  when  it was returned and because of the delay before the car was 
inspected I dont think its fair to charge Mr S for the damage.
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold the complaint.  MBFS  should  waive  all of the remaining 
damage charges.
Ref: DRN60999643my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited should waive the 
charges for replacement  tyres and damage to the front wheels leaving Mr S with nothing to 
pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6099964