K820x#14complaint
Mr E and Mr P are unhappy with the way National House Building Council (NHBC) have 
handled a claim  under their NHBC Buildmark policies.
background
Mr E tells us he purchased a new build property in 2010 which was sold with a NHBC 
Buildmark warranty. He says he noticed problems  had developed with a wall on his property  
which was leaning and had come adrift from a garage it was attached to. So, he contacted 
the builders who he purchased  the property from, and they referred him to NHBC. In 2018  
he approached  NHBC  and asked them to carry out necessary repairs  to make the wall good. 
NHBC initially declined the claim but agreed  theyd not considered if it could be considered 
as a common part under  section 3 of the policy.  They  apologised to Mr E for this and said 
they would  consider the claim if he could demonstrate  he was legally obliged  to share 
responsibility for the cost and upkeep of the wall with neighbours who also had a Buildmark  
policy. In effect, NHBC wanted Mr E to show the wall was a common part.
Mr E approached his neighbour,  Mr P as the wall was adjacent to a driveway Mr P used to 
access his garage.  They  were  concerned  that the wall was in a dangerous condition and 
could fall and damage Mr Ps vehicle parked on the drive or cause injury to their families and 
visitors. And they brought their complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  feel NHBC had acted unfairly  so Mr P and Mr E have asked that an 
ombudsman decide  the case. Since  our investigator  gave their view on the case Mr E has 
provided information which NHBC accepts has demonstrated the wall is a common  part. 
And NHBC  have agreed to consider the claim. Mr E though says NHBC should pay his claim 
rather than just consider  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im sorry Mr E and Mr P have experienced  problems  with the wall, and I can 
understand their concerns. 
In their final response letter (and a subsequent letter  in August 2018) NHBC agreed with Mr 
E that theyd not considered the claim might  be covered under section 3 of the policy as 
common parts and apologised for this. And NHBC  added that the claims team  can consider 
this further if Mr E could  show  that he was legally obliged to share  responsibility  for the cost 
and upkeep of the wall with other homeowners also covered by Buildmark. It is for the policy  
holder to show, on balance, that there  is a valid claim and Im satisfied that NHBC acted 
reasonably in asking Mr E to demonstrate that the wall was a common  part before it could 
consider his claim.
Now Mr E and Mr P have provided this evidence, and NHBC have accepted it they can 
proceed to investigate the claim.  Its reasonable that NHBC has the opportunity  to consider 
the claim and allow  their experts to investigate the damage and consider it in line with the 
terms and conditions and policy  limitations.  And all parties should cooperate to allow this to 
happen so that NHBC  can investigate the claim and make its decision.
Ref: DRN64555872my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2020.
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6455587