K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined  their travel insurance  claim. 
My references to Aviva include its agents.
background
While on holiday  Mr and Mrs D had the use of a friends winter  sports  equipment. 
Unfortunately the equipment was stolen  from the secure locker where Mr and Mrs D kept the 
equipment. They claimed  on their travel insurance,  which was though a bank account. They 
told Aviva  the equipment  belonged to a friend.  
Aviva declined the claim. The policy  only covers  equipment owned or hired  by Mr and Mrs D. 
Aviva said they didnt own the stolen items,  but had borrowed the items from a friend.
Mr and Mrs D complain that Avivas decision was unfair and it should pay the claim. Theyve  
given various definitions of ownership  and say the equipment was in their ownership  at the 
time of the theft.
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted fairly  in saying  the stolen items werent owned by 
Mr and Mrs D and in declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs D disagree and want an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs D bought  the winter sports extension on the policy.  The policy is clear theres 
cover only for winter  sports equipment owned or hired by Mr and Mrs D.
Mr and Mrs D havent suggested they hired  the equipment from their friend so I dont need to 
consider that matter.
The word  owned isnt defined in the policy so I think its fair to apply the common 
understanding of the word. Ive seen  the suggested  definitions Mr and Mrs D gave, which 
include being in possession of, having  and controlling property and being a custodian. They  
say they were the short term owners  of the items at the time of the theft. 
But even if Mr and Mrs D were in possession  of the items I dont think  they owned the items. 
As our investigator explained, a simple  way to look at the matter is that if Mr and Mrs D were 
asked if they owned  the items  they would have said the items belonged to their friend.  They 
may have  added some detail about how the borrowing arrangement worked but ultimately 
the items  didnt belong  to them.
I agree  with the further examples our investigator  gave as to why Mr and Mrs D didnt own 
the items.  In addition,  Mr and Mrs D say they feel a moral obligation to reimburse the friend  
for the items  they couldnt return, which supports that they understood ownership hadn't  
Ref: DRN68757712been transferred  to them. Mr and Mrs D borrowed the items understanding  the items 
continued to belong to the friend  who wanted the items returned.
Overall Im satisfied Aviva acted  fairly  and reasonably in saying the stolen items werent 
owned by Mr and/or Mrs D. There was no cover  for the theft of the items  under the policy 
terms and Aviva doesnt need  to pay the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6875771