K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Kindertons Ltd told him his van would be repaired  by an approved 
dealer. And has said his warranty  has been  affected  because it wasnt.
background
In December 2018, Mr S was involved  in an accident that wasnt  his fault when another  car 
drove into his parked  van. As the accident  wasnt his fault Mr S didnt make a claim against 
his motor insurance policy but instead  used the services of Kindertons an accident 
management company  (AMC). Mr S said he told Kindertons his van should be taken to an 
approved dealer and said Kindertons told him this is what would happen. But it didnt. Mr S 
wasnt happy with the repairs done  to his car and complained to Kindertons. 
Kindertons arranged for the unsatisfactory repairs to be rectified.  But Mr S said as they 
hadnt used an approved  dealer his warranty  would be affected. Kindertons accepted theyd 
given incorrect information  to Mr S as his van wasnt taken to an approved dealer but 
repaired using approved parts. Kindertons said as the parts used were approved Mr S 
warranty wouldnt be affected.  But they offered Mr S £250  to compensate him for the trouble 
and upset caused. And hed also be given a lifetime guarantee for the labour and paint done 
by the repairing garage.  
Mr S wasnt  happy with Kindertons response  and said they should compensate him £3,000  
for what theyd done. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator was satisfied that Kindertons had done enough to put things right.  Mr S 
didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will be a disappointment to Mr S; Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same  reasons.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Mr S is complaining  about  took 
place before this change  in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman  would have taken. 
Kindertons  as an AMC  manage claims by arranging a hire car, where needed, organising  
repairs or determining  pre-accident value of the car if its deemed non repairable and 
claiming these costs back from the third partys insurer.
And  I can see Kindertons provided  these  services to Mr S, arranging for his van to be 
repaired and providing a hire car whilst this was being done. When  Mr S spoke to Kindertons 
at the time of his accident he did specifically  ask for his car to be taken to an approved 
dealer. And I can see he was given assurance that it would  be. I dont think  there  was any 
intention of Kindertons  to mis-lead Mr S, but more a confusion about the repairs  being  done 
with approved parts rather than the repairs being  done by an approved  dealer. Kindertons  
Ref: DRN66515312has accepted  that they didnt give him the right information and have offered him £250 in 
recognition of this.
Mr S, on the return of his van, wasnt happy with the repairs. I understand this to have been 
about the vans buffer and for rough paintwork to be rectified. I can see Kindertons arranged  
for Mr Ss van to be returned to the paintwork  shop  for rectification repairs to be done.  And 
they provided Mr S with a hire car, at no cost to him, whilst the repair  work was done. And 
these were done to an acceptable standard. 
Mr S has accepted that approved parts having been  used for the repairs wont  affect his 
warranty. But has said because the repaired  paintwork  hasnt been  taken  to an approved 
dealer his paintwork warranty with the dealer  is no longer valid. But I can see that Mr S has  
been offered,  while he remains the owner  of the van, a lifetime guarantee for labour and 
paint for the repair work done to his van. I can understand Mr S frustration  about  this as hed 
prefer for his dealer  warranty  to still be valid. But I wont be asking Kindertons to do anything 
more as I dont think  Mr S has suffered any detrimental loss. And Kindertons  has already 
recognised and offered to compensate Mr S for the upset hes been caused. 
Its now for Mr S to decide whether to accept the offers or not. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6651531