K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc denied him access  to money in his bank account 
and gave poor service.
background 
In September  2018, Mr K authorised payments to two merchants from his Barclays bank 
account. Instead of taking  the money directly from his account, the merchants placed a block  
on the money so it was still in Mr Ks account but he couldnt spend it. This is called a 
pending transaction. 
With a pending  transaction,  the money is later debited from the account  and paid to the 
merchant  or, if the merchant doesnt  process the payment, the bank  removes the block on 
the funds after seven to ten days. In the situation Mr Ks complaining about, the merchants 
later processed the payments and the money  was taken from his account   but the pending 
transactions werent released at the same time. This meant that he didnt have access to the 
money until they fell away automatically a week later.
Mr K realised there  was a problem almost immediately, because  it took his account 
overdrawn. He says he was very worried about having enough money, particularly because 
his rent was due to be paid soon after. He called  Barclays but was told that the most likely  
explanation was that the merchants had duplicated  the payments  but when Mr K called 
them, they said they hadnt. Mr K says he was concerned  about  having enough money  in his 
account so he and his wife withdrew  cash from their credit cards to pay into it, so were 
charged fees, and they sold his wifes bag at auction, and received less than its value. 
During this week, Mr K also had difficulty paying  in money to his account.  Barclays  
apologised and paid him £12 to cover a late payment  fee he might be charged.  He says he 
was also inconvenienced when other payments  were rejected because he didnt  have 
enough money in his account. He says Barclays  told him this was due to an I.T. problem.
Mr K complained to Barclays  but it didnt uphold his complaint because it said that it had 
processed the transactions correctly. Mr K had several conversations  with Barclays over this 
time and was unhappy with the customer service.  In particular, he was frustrated that he had 
to explain what had happened several times to different  people;  he wasnt  called back  when 
he was told he would  be; and it didnt provide extra information hed asked for. He also 
thought he was told by one advisor that his complaint would be upheld, but then it wasnt.  
So he brought his decision to our service for an independent view.
After our investigator contacted Barclays, it reviewed his complaint again  and saw that the 
problem was caused because the pending  transactions hadnt been released   and agreed 
that this hadnt  been  explained  to Mr K. Barclays agreed that Mr Ks complaint should be 
upheld for this reason and offered him £250  compensation for trouble and upset.  
Our investigator thought that was a fair outcome.  But Mr K disagreed because he didnt think 
was enough, so he asked for an ombudsman decision. 
Ref: DRN65795932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres now no dispute that Barclays didnt release the pending transactions from Mr Ks 
account when  the merchants processed the payments, which  meant he couldnt access  
these funds for a week. Because  of this, I will focus  on what  Barclays now needs to do to put 
things right here.
Mr K argues  that Barclays  should  compensate him for his credit card costs   and, on 
balance, I agree. I say this because Mr K called Barclays immediately when he realised that 
there was a problem,  but it didnt explain whatd happened and the merchants couldnt 
explain  because they hadnt made a mistake  here.  I can see that in these circumstances, 
Mr K wouldve  wanted  to bring his account back into credit quickly  particularly if he had 
regular payments scheduled for the next working day. So I think  it was reasonable for him to 
transfer in other money he already had access to, even if that meant incurring some fees. 
For that reason,  I think its fair that Barclays refunds  the credit card cash  advance fees of 
15 September subject  to these being  evidenced. 
Mr K also thinks  Barclays should compensate him for having to sell a designer bag at a loss 
 but, having considered the arguments carefully,  I dont  agree. The amount Mr K paid into 
his account that day was more than the blocked  amount - so I cant  see that he needed to do 
anything more at that time to cover the scheduled  payments  from his account. Even if Mr K 
was unsure of his available  balance because of the number of pending transactions over the 
weekend, I think he wouldve known hed paid in more than had been blocked. His account 
was in credit  on the 17 September;  the next working  day. And I think  that if Mr K was still 
worried about his account, its reasonable to expect  him to have called Barclays  to check his 
balance and discuss his options before selling the bag. Barclays  wasnt aware of his 
decision and didnt  encourage it. Mr K also continued to make  discretionary payments to 
online merchants during the week his money  was blocked. 
Taking these points together, Im not persuaded that Barclays  error directly caused Mr K to 
sell the bag at a loss, or that he had no other  option,  so I dont think  it would be fair to ask it 
to compensate him for the loss.  
Mr K also complains that Barclays error meant  other payments from his account  were 
declined that week. From the evidence, I can see that these were  discretionary payments 
authorised after 15 September, when Mr K knew how much money he had in his account. I 
dont think Barclays needs to compensate Mr K if he instructed  these  payments when he 
knew he didnt have  enough money.  Barclays has already  credited  Mr Ks account  with £12 
for costs he suffered because he was having  difficulty paying money in, so I dont think  it 
needs to do anything more here to compensate his direct losses here.
Ref: DRN65795933Ive considered what Barclays should  pay Mr K as compensation for trouble and upset. I 
know Mr K wont  agree  with me, but I dont think he suffered a significant financial or 
personal impact as a result of Barclays error. I say this because  the money  was released a 
week later and he was able to operate his account in the meantime, except for the blocked 
amount  so his regular payments and expenses were met. But I understand that that Mr K 
wouldve been concerned and upset  when his account was unexpectedly overdrawn  in 
particular when Barclays couldnt explain what had happened or fix the problem and he had 
regular payments due. And he was understandably frustrated when he had to explain  the 
problem to several different advisors  and only got a clear explanation after he brought his 
complaint to our service. 
On balance, I think the £250  compensation  already  offered  by Barclays is reasonable and 
fair compensation for the trouble and upset Mr K suffered here.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and order  Barclays  Bank UK Plc to pay 
him £275.49 compensation, being £250  for trouble and upset and £25.49 for credit  card 
fees.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6579593