K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ts credit card account  when  she applied  for the card by post.
The PPI cost around 75p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. If Mrs T had made  a 
successful claim, it would have paid 10% of her outstanding credit  card balance for up to 
12 months if she was off sick, or if he lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ts credit card application. It included  a section on PPI, with a 
box to tick if the applicant wished to take out the cover. Mrs T ticked  the box to indicate 
that she wished  to take PPI. Im satisfied that RBS made  it clear to Mrs T that the PPI 
was optional, and that she took it knowing that she had a choice.
Mrs T applied for the credit card and PPI by post. I think its unlikely that she had any 
direct contact  with RBSs staff during the application process. So I think  its unlikely that 
RBS advised her to take out the PPI. This means it didnt need to check  that the policy 
was suitable for Mrs T. It was for her to decide  whether she wished to take the cover, 
knowing what alternative means  shed have had of making  her monthly  credit  card 
payments if she was off sick or lost her job. But RBS did have a responsibility  to give 
Mrs T enough information to enable her to decide whether the PPI was right for her.
I acknowledge that Mrs Ts told us shed have been entitled to six months  full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from her employer  at the time if shed been off sick. But 
if shed made a successful claim on the policy, it would have paid 10% of her credit card 
balance each month for up to 12 months.  So it would potentially have carried on paying 
out for longer than Mrs T would have been  entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more,  it 
would have paid out in addition  to any payments Mrs T received from her employer. So 
Mrs T could have  used those to meet other expenses. Taking everything into account, 
I think the protection the policy offered could have been useful to Mrs T, especially as 
shes told us that aside from her employee  benefits, she didnt have any other  means 
she could have  used  to make her credit card repayments if shed been unable  to work.
Ref: DRN62483922I acknowledge that its possible the information  RBS gave Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But I think Mrs T chose  to take out the policy - so it looks as 
if she wanted this type of cover,  even  if shes understandably  forgotten  that now.  Based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look as if shed have been 
affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations.
The policy was competitively priced.  And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mrs T couldnt  
afford it. Taking everything  into account,  Im not convinced that better information about 
the PPI would have put Mrs T off taking it out. So I dont  think  the policy  was mis-sold.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because:  
It got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mrs T about  that. Because RBS didnt tell Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand its already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6248392