K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited (Jelf) didnt name  her as the insured 
person on a buildings insurance  policy it arranged for the freeholder.  She also is unhappy 
with how it handled  the renewal of the policy.
background
Mrs R is the leaseholder  of a flat. The building insurance policy  covering this property was 
arranged by Jelf on the request of the freeholder, who owns  the whole building. Mrs R 
requested to be named as an insured person but Jelf noted her as an interested party  on the 
policy.
In 2013 a subsidence claim was made.  Mrs R complained that, as she wasnt named on the 
policy, she had difficulty getting  the insurer to deal with her which  caused  delays. In 2014 
Jelf arranged insurance with a new provider  but this didnt include subsidence cover. Mrs R 
says Jelf shouldnt  have done  this as the claim was unresolved and the insurance  was more 
expensive, despite  not having  the cover for subsidence.  
Jelf considered her complaint. It said Mrs R couldnt be named as a policy holder as this was 
a block policy covering multiple properties  for the freeholder. It also said it wasnt responsible 
for any delays caused to the claim as a result of the insurer  not accepting  her as an 
interested party. In relation to the renewal of the policy, Jelf said the provider had to be 
changed as the existing  insurer  refused to offer renewal terms. But it did say that, once the 
existing claim  had been resolved, subsidence cover  would be provided on the new policy. 
Unhappy with the response, Mrs R brought the complaint here. 
Our investigator didnt  agree the complaint should  be upheld. She said the freeholder  was 
the policy holder,  not Mrs R. The investigator  found  that Jelf had done enough by naming 
her as an interested party. In relation to the renewal of the cover,  she said this was a matter  
between the policy holder  and Jelf  if Mrs R was unhappy with this change this should be 
discussed with the freeholder.
Mrs R didnt agree with our investigator. She said that being named as the policy holder was 
a requirement of the lease agreement she had with the freeholder. And that Jelf had to 
discuss the insurance with her as she had an interest in the policy as the leaseholder. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware  Mrs R has made some points  in relation to the handling of her claim by the 
insurer and how she thinks Jelfs actions  have impacted this. This complaint is made against 
Jelf  an insurance broker - and so I can only consider complaints made about that business 
and which  relate  to regulated activities applicable to it as an insurance intermediary. Im 
afraid this doesnt  include  any issues about  claims handling. So, I wont  be looking into any 
comments Mrs R has made about  the way the insurance claim was handled by the insurer or 
Jelfs involvement in that claim. 
Ref: DRN63225312The buildings insurance policy was taken out by the freeholder of the property directly  with 
Jelf. This isnt unusual,  quite often the building is insured  by the owner. So in this case the 
freeholder is the policy holder. Mrs R thinks she should also be listed as a policy holder   but 
she didnt take out the policy. Jelf did list her as an interested  party  on the policy  as she is 
entitled to benefit from the policy this would seem  reasonable.  Mrs R says it is a requirement 
of her lease  that she is named on the insurance  policy. This may be the case  but Jelf isnt 
party to the lease  it is a contract between Mrs R and the freeholder. If Mrs R feels that the 
policy is in breach of her lease then she needs to take this issue  up with the freeholder. Im 
not persuaded Jelf should have  acted differently as a result.
Ive noted Mrs Rs concerns about  the renewal  of the policy and why she thinks it shouldnt  
have been transferred to a different insurer. But Jelf was acting as a broker  for the 
freeholder, not for Mrs R. So even though it did discuss the cover with her, the choice of 
insurance provider  was ultimately the decision of the freeholder  - who is the policy  holder. 
Im aware that Mrs R doesnt agree that Jelf has acted appropriately in this regard. But she 
doesnt own the relationship with Jelf. If Mrs R is unhappy with the choice of insurer put 
forward by Jelf then she should discuss this with the freeholder.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs R but for the reasons  stated above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6322531