K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1989. Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
background
In 1989 Mr and Mrs S arranged a new mortgage  with Halifax.  At this time a PPI policy  was 
also set up. This provided cover for Mr S if he was unable  to work due to accident  or 
sickness or if he was made  redundant. Because it was sold such  a long time ago, Halifax  
doesnt have records of how much it would have  paid out if Mr S made a successful claim 
but its likely  to have  been around  £400, which is approximately how much  their mortgage 
repayments were at the time. Although Mr and Mrs S say they have a note that it cost 
£31.05 a month in 1994, Halifaxs records show it cost £18.00 a month when the cover 
started.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Understandably, Mr and Mrs S dont remember much about what happened when they took 
out the PPI. They say they cant have been given a choice about  whether to have the policy  
or not because they wouldnt have taken it if they had been.
Halifax hasnt been able to give us a copy of the paperwork from the time, although this isnt 
surprising since the mortgage and PPI were taken out such a long time ago and the 
mortgage was paid off and PPI cancelled in 2004. But the lack of anything  showing the PPI 
was optional, isnt enough for me to uphold the complaint.
For me to uphold the complaint on the basis Mr and Mrs S were told by Halifax  they had to 
have the PPI, I would  need to be persuaded that this is more likely  than the alternative 
where they were  given  a choice and chose  to take it out. Given  the limited information 
available and Mr and Mrs Ss limited recollections of what  happened, I dont have enough to 
reach this conclusion. 
Mr and Mrs Ss main  reason  for thinking they cant have been  given  a choice is that Mr S 
had good employee benefits  and other insurance  policies. So they didnt need the cover 
provided by the PPI. But Ive looked at what hes told us about these and I dont agree.
As Ive set out above, the PPI provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. So 
policies such as the life assurance and mortgage  protection insurance they had and Mr Ss 
death in service benefit, didnt provide the same type of cover. To clarify, the mortgage 
protection insurance appears to have  been  a decreasing  term assurance  that would pay out 
if Mr S died,  rather  than a policy similar to PPI.
Ref: DRN67055912Mr S has told us he also had a permanent health insurance (PHI) policy that would pay £320 
a month  after a six month deferral period. Its likely  this would provide cover if Mr S was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. So it would  have provided cover similar to the 
PPI (but without the unemployment  element).  Mr S has also told us his employer would have 
paid him in full if he was off sick for up to six months. And after nine or ten years of service, 
this would automatically rise to 52 weeks full pay.
Mr S had been working for his employer for nearly six and a half years.  He told Halifax his 
salary was about £25,575.  So it would  be a few years before Mr S would be entitled to 52 
weeks full pay if he was off sick. In the meantime there would have been a shortfall  in his 
income if he couldnt work for more  than six months because of sickness  or an accident  
even with the PHI policy he had. 
Mr S has said that if he were made redundant, he would have received a redundancy payout 
that would  be several  times the weekly statutory  amount. But given his length of service in 
1989, I think its unlikely  he would have received a payout that would have covered his 
mortgage repayments, as well as the other  household expenses, for very long if hed been 
made redundant.  
Mrs S wasnt  working at the time and although she planned to return to work at some point in 
the future,  in 1989 they were reliant on Mr Ss income to repay the mortgage. So if he was 
off sick for a long period of time or was made redundant,  there  was a real possibility they 
would have found it difficult to keep up with the mortgage repayments and could risk losing  
their home. The PPI policy seems like it would have  been useful in these situations and 
would have given  them the peace of mind that at least  their mortgage repayments would be 
made.
Mr and Mrs S have  also said they had some  endowment policies that, they think, were due 
to pay out in five successive  years from around 1989. They say they could have  used these 
savings to protect their mortgage. But Im conscious that they would either  need to wait for 
these policies to mature (if they hadnt  already) or surrender them  early  (and potentially  lose 
money) if they needed the money  to make  their mortgage repayments. Having the PPI would 
mean they could  keep  these savings intact  for other expenses. I note they used the 
proceeds of these policies to pay for private education for one of their children and they 
might still have been able to do this even if Mr S wasnt working, because the PPI would 
have covered their mortgage repayments.
So overall, I think its likely Mr and Mrs S were given a choice about taking out the PPI and 
the chose to take it out because they thought there  was some  benefit in having  it at the time.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. As Ive explained,  I think Mr and Mrs S did have a need  for the cover  provided by the 
PPI. And Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover,  so there  
wasnt anything that would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  For the reasons Ive already given, it seems like it would  have been  
useful for them  if something had gone wrong.  For example, better  information  about the 
limitations and exclusions  is unlikely to have put them off, as Mr S wasnt affected by any of 
these.
Ref: DRN67055913Halifax has upheld a complaint about a PPI policy Mr and Mrs S held before this one. But 
this doesnt mean this complaint should also be upheld.  Ive only looked  at the 
circumstances of the sale of the PPI in 1989  and havent seen enough  to say it was mis-
sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6705591