K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform (Platform) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing with his mortgage. He wants an apology  and 
compensation.
background
Mr A had a mortgage with Platform. In 2018, he called and wanted to make a payment  
towards his mortgage  using a card without saying  what type of card he wanted to use; he 
was told this wasnt possible. Mr A said that hed paid using a card before  and called again.  
This time, he said that he wanted to pay by a debit card, which  was acceptable. But Mr A felt 
that hed been accused of swearing and was unhappy about  not being  told how long hed 
have to wait to speak to the collections team. 
Mr A complained to Platform.  It said that it was sorry Mr A had to wait on the phone,  but 
sometimes its staff were  busy  and payment could be made using its automated  system or by 
direct debit. Platform said that it couldnt  tell consumers  how long the wait might be. It 
confirmed that Mr A hadnt  sworn (though it referred to unacceptable language) and noted 
hed received an apology at the time, which it repeated. Platform  accepted  that it had made 
an error in not clearly  noting on Mr As records  that it was only credit card payments that 
werent acceptable when an account was in arrears and it had changed the note to be 
clearer. It sent £75 for the trouble and upset caused by initially refusing to let Mr A make a 
payment and its poor service.
Mr A complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that there  was confusion over what type 
of card Mr A wanted to use and as a result Platform had updated its system to avoid such  
confusion in the future. He didnt  think it was unfair  or unreasonable for a lender to refuse to 
accept a credit card when  an account  was in arrears, and thought  the amendment to the 
system to be clear about the position  was a fair resolution. The adjudicator also listened  to 
the call where Mr A had felt accused of swearing; he said Mr A didnt swear and the member 
of staff apologised for mishearing. The adjudicator thought that the apology  given  at the time 
was sufficient, particularly  as the member  of staff had been polite throughout and had been 
trying to help Mr A.
The adjudicator said that Platform didnt have a system to tell consumers how long theyd be 
waiting on the phone.  The adjudicator couldnt change  this but recommended  Platform  
reviewed the issue. He pointed out that there were other options available to Mr A to make  a 
payment. The adjudicator  thought that the payment of £75 for trouble and upset caused was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr A disagreed. He said that the adjudicator hadnt  investigated properly as he didnt agree 
with his view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint  about the administration of a mortgage and related customer service, so 
Im satisfied that this service can consider it. But Im of the same view as that set out by the 
adjudicator and wont be upholding the complaint.
Ref: DRN63494742This service can only deal with individual complaints,  and cant  require businesses to change  
their system. Platform doesnt  have  a system  that allows it to estimate how long a consumer 
may have  to wait on a phone, and it isnt required to have such  a system. So I cant  say that 
its acted unfairly or unreasonably, particularly its said that it will bear the feedback in mind  
in the future when  reviewing its customer service experience. And Mr A does  have other 
options to make a payment, as has been  explained  to him.
And while I accept Mr A didnt swear  at Platforms staff, the call was a difficult one. The 
member of staff apologised for mis-hearing Mr A and was polite throughout. Platform 
repeated the apology  in writing. I dont think its acted unfairly  or unreasonably.
Theres no doubt that Platform did make a mistake  in failing to clearly note on Mr As 
account that it was only credit card payments that werent permitted as he was in arrears. 
This error meant Mr A couldnt make the payment  in his first call, which wasnt  fair or 
reasonable, though I note Mr A didnt  make it clear initially  which type of card he wanted to 
use. But the matter has been put right practically  the notes have been changed and the 
position explained to Mr A both over the phone and in writing. 
I think compensation for the trouble and upset  caused  by the service issue is fair and 
reasonable. Money never truly compensates for trouble  and upset; compensation is 
generally modest under this services  guidelines.  And I can only award compensation for 
issues where Ive found Platform  to have  acted unfairly and unreasonably. Having 
considered all the evidence available to me, and all the circumstances, I think £75 is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 10 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6349474