K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought by the Executors  of the estate of the late Mrs R against 
West Bromwich  Mortgage Company Limited  (WBMC). The Executors are Mr R1 (who  is the 
widower of Mrs R) and Mr R2 (who is their son). They are represented  in the complaint  by 
Mr R1 and Mrs Rs other son (and Mr R2s brother), Mr R3.
The complaint is about the way WBMC dealt with Mrs Rs buy-to-let  (BTL) mortgage  account 
after her death  in September 2007.
background
Mrs R owned a BTL property mortgaged to WBMC. The mortgage  as originally taken out on 
30 September 2005 with another lender and was transferred  to WBMC  in November 2006. I 
am told the mortgage  term ended in October 2010,  so although I dont  have the original 
offer, it is safe to assume it was a five-year term. 
In late September  2007 Mrs R was looking to remortgage the property. On 26 September 
2007 solicitors acting for her wrote to WBMC  asking  for a redemption statement, as it was 
intended that the mortgage would be redeemed on 1 October 2007.
I am sorry  to note that Mrs R died on 28 September 2007. Mr R3 says that the only asset  in 
her estate was this property. He says that it is his understanding that when a mortgagee  
dies, the mortgage comes  to an end and should have been redeemed within six months of 
the date of the Grant of Probate (which  was issued on 26 November  2007)  naming  Mr R1 
and Mr R2 as Executors). 
Mr R1 applied for a transfer  of equity in April 2008,  which was declined by WBMC as he 
didnt meet its lending  criteria. The mortgage term ended in October 2010, but Mr R3 says 
no correspondence was received from WBMC about this. 
In 2012 WBMC made formal demand  for repayment of the mortgage, which was just under 
£100,000. At this point, Mr R3 complained on behalf of Mr R1 that WBMC hadnt changed 
the address on the account  after Mr R1 had sent in the Grant  of Probate in 2007. A final 
response letter was issued by WBMC on 1 June 2012 apologising for its error and offering 
compensation of £350.
I understand that during  this period the property was improved by the Executors, and that it 
was tenanted  (at least for some of the time), with rent being  received into the estate. 
In 2012 WBMC appointed Law of Property Act (LPA)  Receivers,  and they put the property 
on the market. It was sold in January 2014 for £106,000. The net proceeds of sale were 
£102,302.17 and the amount required to redeem  the mortgage  was £108,915.64, so there 
was a shortfall of £6,613.47. Because WBMC has decided to waive the shortfall  debt, it has 
withdrawn its previous offer of £350 compensation.
Mr R3 says that he was told by WBMC in October  2012 that WBMC  would repossess the 
property without any further costs being  added.
Mr R3 queried why WBMC didnt issue a redemption claim as soon as it was notified  of 
Mrs Rs death. He is also unhappy that, after a request to transfer  the mortgage into Mr R1s 
name was refused in May 2008, the mortgage was not redeemed by WBMC  then. He also 
Ref: DRN61221852does not understand why WBMC didnt insist on redemption when the mortgage  term ended 
in 2010.
Mr R3 is suspicious that a redemption statement was sent on the date Mrs R died. He 
considers this to be highly improbable  and queries  whether  it is a true copy. He also 
doesnt understand why the final response letter he received is undated, yet WBMC sent the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  a copy of the same letter with a date of 15 March 2017  on it. 
Mr R3 is also suspicious that there was a difference of £35 in demand letters sent out by 
WBMC.
Mr R3 has explained that Mr R1 continued to pay the mortgage  after Mrs Rs death, and in 
total paid about £33,000. Mr R3 believes the estate should be compensated for the way in 
which WBMC  has dealt with the mortgage account since Mrs Rs death.  Mr R3 says that 
WBMC should return the monies paid by Mr R1 since the mortgage  term ended,  but really, 
it should be at a minimum of all monies  paid since the one year anniversary of my mothers  
death  that is 28 September  2008.
WBMC didnt uphold the complaint so it was brought to us in June 2018. WBMC said it had 
issued final response  letters  on 1 June 2012 (about  changing the address on the account) 
and on 15 March 2017 (about a claim for reimbursement of the payments made by Mr R1 to 
the mortgage account after Mrs Rs death). It considered the complaint was out of time.
An investigator was satisfied that we couldnt  consider the issues  covered in the 2012 final 
response letter about the change of address, as they were out of time. But he noted  that the 
copy of the 2017 final response  letter provided  by Mr R3 was undated. Consequently the 
investigator didnt  think  it met the regulatory criteria for a final response. WBMC consented 
to us looking at this part of the complaint.
The investigator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He didnt  think  WBMC had 
acted unfairly in its handling of the account or that it should reimburse Mr R1 for any 
payments hed made towards the mortgage.`
On behalf of the estate, Mr R3 disagreed with the investigators findings. He reiterated his 
suspicions about the documents provided  to us by WBMC.  He says he has provided clear  
evidence of a series  of errors by WBMC  and he therefore  considers  it has liability. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I confirm Ive read everything  provided by Mr R3. I trust he wont  consider  it a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the main  issues  of the 
complaint. Our enabling legislation allows me to do this.
So although  Ive read and considered the whole file Ive focussed  on what  I think  is relevant 
and material to the outcome of the complaint.  If I dont  comment on any specific  point its not 
because Ive not considered it; rather, its because I dont think  I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.  
Ref: DRN61221853I must also clarify  that we are not, as Mr R3 says, the regulator. We have no power to 
regulate financial businesses. 
2012 complaint: WBMC didnt consent to us looking at this part of the complaint, as it had 
issued its final response letter  on 1 June 2012, giving the Executors six months  to bring the 
complaint to us. As it wasnt referred to us by 1 December  2012, and there  are no 
exceptional circumstances  to explain the delay,  Im satisfied we cant  consider the complaint 
about the error in the change of address.
2017 complaint: This complaint is about the claim by the Executors  for expenses incurred 
by Mr R1 in servicing the mortgage for a number of years after Mrs R died.. 
For reasons that are unclear,  the final response  letter sent in March  2017 to Mr R3 was 
undated, although WBMCs copy which it provided  to us shows  the date. Although Mr R3 is 
suspicious about this, it has worked in his favour;  if the letter he received in March 2017 had 
been dated, we wouldnt have been able to consider the complaint when it was brought  to us 
in June 2018 as it would  have been time-barred.
Mr R3 also has concerns about  a discrepancy of £35 in two demand letters sent by WBMC.  
The explanation for this is that it is just a typographical error. I accept WBMCs  explanation;  
in a busy office human errors  can happen.  There is nothing sinister  about this, and in any 
event, nothing in the complaint turns on this small mistake.  It is certainly not indicative that 
WBMC is liable  for anything, as Mr R3 suggests.
The redemption statement issued on the day Mrs R died was sent at the request of her 
solicitors, who asked  for it just two days before Mrs R passed away,  as she was arranging a 
remortgage. The statement would have been sent to the solicitors, as it was they who 
requested it.
The main  issue in the 2017 complaint is the request that the payments made by Mr R1 
towards the mortgage should be reimbursed by WBMC. Mr R3 estimates these payments to 
have totalled around £33,000.
Mr R3 is correct in saying  that, on the death of a borrower, the mortgage should  be repaid. It 
is the responsibility of the estate to repay the mortgage. If there are (as in this case) no other  
assets in the estate,  this is usually done  by way of a sale of the property. 
I can see that in 2008  Mr R1 made an application  to WBMC  in his own right for a transfer  of 
equity, but this was declined.  Mr R1 as an individual isnt a party  to this complaint  he is 
complaining in his capacity as Executor of his late wifes estate, which  is different from his 
own status as an individual  potential customer of WBMC.  So Im not going to comment on 
anything relating to Mr R1s application  for a transfer  of equity.
It was the role of the Executors to preserve  the assets of the estate for the beneficiaries.  
There were insufficient other  assets  available in the estate to pay the mortgage pending a 
sale of the property by the Executors.  Mr R1, decided to cover  these  expenses  himself. That 
was his choice.  If Mr R1 wanted to be reimbursed  for paying the mortgage, this would have 
had to come  out of the estate. As the property was being rented out, the estate could have 
reimbursed Mr R1 out of the rental  income for any expenses he incurred personally on 
behalf of the estate. But its not WBMCs responsibility to reimburse  him.
Ref: DRN61221854After Mrs Rs death the Executors didnt sell the property.  They  didnt sell it after Mr R1s 
request for a transfer of equity was declined in 2008. And they didnt sell it when  the 
mortgage term expired.  Mr R3 suggests  WBMC should itself have redeemed the mortgage. I 
think he might have  misunderstood the position; it was the duty of the Executors to repay it. 
I think WBMC  was sensitive to the family circumstances,  and allowed  considerable 
forbearance to give the Executors time to sell the property  and repay the mortgage. When  it 
appeared that a sale of the property wasnt imminent,  LPA Receivers were appointed.  I dont  
consider this to be unreasonable in the circumstances as it wasnt until five years after 
Mrs Rs death that this occurred, and two years since the mortgage term expired. 
Im also conscious that the events complained of took place at the time of the financial crisis, 
when mortgage  lending became more restrictive and property markets  fell. So there were  
external issues over which neither the Executors  nor WBMC had any control  which no doubt  
influenced the decision taken by the Executors not to sell the property immediately.
Mr R3 says he was told in October 2012 that the property would be sold without any further 
expenses being  added  to the account.  There is no record of a call on the specific date he 
mentions in WBMCs records. 
There is, however, an email dated  14 November 2012 from the person to whom Mr R3 says 
he spoke to in October  2012 which makes no mention of this. Indeed, the email is quite 
specific that the LPA receivers  will be following due legal process. I think that if there had 
been any suggestion that the estate wouldnt be charged for this, the email would have 
mentioned it, as it is very detailed about other aspects of the complaint.
The email  of 14 November 2012 also says that I believe  an amount of compensation is due 
by way of an ex gratia payment. But this is in the context of administrative errors and for the 
time spent  by Mr R3 on dealing with the matter. I must explain that the Financial  
Ombudsman Service doesnt award compensation  either to Executors or their 
representatives where they are carrying out their duties in administering the estate.
I appreciate this complaint arises out of very unhappy circumstances. I acknowledge this has 
been a distressing time for the family. Its unfortunate the Executors werent  able to repay  
the mortgage once Probate had been  granted,  but I dont think  this is the responsibility of 
WBMC. It was the Executors choice to refurbish and rent out the property after Mrs R died, 
and after the mortgage expired. I acknowledge the Executors had tried various strategies to 
retain the property,  but in the absence of any firm repayment proposals,  Im satisfied WBMC 
acted reasonably. 
Mr R3 says that he believes WBMC  had a duty to enforce a formal demand within 6 months 
of probate being granted. They had a further duty to enforce a formal demand after the 
mortgage term came to an end in 2010 . Mr R3 is incorrect.  There is no such  duty on 
WBMC. Its a matter  for WBMCs own commercial judgment what  steps  it will take to enforce 
its security. 
On the other hand, the Executors owe a duty to the beneficiaries to liquidate  the assets  of 
the estate and distribute those assets to the beneficiaries. I have not seen  a copy  of the Will 
(nor do I need  to) so I dont know if there  are beneficiaries other  than Mr R1. But generally if 
beneficiaries of an estate  have  suffered  financial loss as a result  of the Executors failing to 
take steps to preserve  the assets of the estate,  then the Executors are personally liable.
Ref: DRN61221855In this present  case, the Executors could have sold the property, but didnt do so. In this 
respect, given the financial  climate  after 2008,  I dont criticise them for the decision they 
made. But by not selling the property, the Executors are responsible  for the long-term 
consequences of that decision.  By the time it was sold, there  was a shortfall owed to WBMC 
of over £6,000,  which WBMC has agreed to write  off.  WBMC isnt obliged  to do this, but 
given there  are no other assets in the estate, I think this is the right thing for WBMC  to do.
I dont think WBMC has treated the Executors  unfairly or unreasonably. This means that I 
am not ordering WBMC to pay any compensation to the estate. Given Mr R3s stated lack of 
confidence in the Financial Ombudsman Service to provide him with an outcome with which  
he would  be satisfied, the Executors remain free to pursue their grievances  against WBMC  
in court,  should  they wish to do so. They might  wish to take legal advice before embarking 
on such a course of action.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R1 and Mr R2, 
on behalf of the estate  of the late Mrs R, to accept  or reject  my decision before 
4 August 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6122185