K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs R took out the 
store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs R says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mrs R 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL has provided evidence of its internal  records to show  that the PPI was taken out over 
the phone  in 2001  some months after the store card account  had been  set up. But 
unfortunately due to the length of time thats  passed there  is no call recording for me to listen  
to  so I cant say what exactly was discussed  at the time. But as Mrs R already  had the 
credit in place I think she wouldve known the PPI was an optional extra and not a condition  
of having the store  card.
FICL has also provided call scripts  which it says wouldve been used for these types of sales 
around that time  and Ive seen  no reason to doubt this. These show  that the sales  person  
wouldve been instructed to present the PPI as optional to Mrs R. And without any evidence 
to persuade me otherwise,  I think its unlikely FICL  wouldve added the PPI to her account 
without her permission.
So based  on all the evidence Ive seen and without  any stronger evidence to the contrary,  I 
think FICL made it clear  that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for her.
Mrs R feels strongly  that the terms and conditions of the policy  werent explained to her. And 
I think its possible the information FICL gave Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN64394612Upon a successful  claim the PPI wouldve  paid 15% of Mrs Rs outstanding monthly balance 
until the policy ended, Mrs R stopped being unemployed or disabled,  or the outstanding  
balance had been cleared. And even  though  she was entitled to some  sick pay from her 
employer, this wouldve  only lasted  9 months. The PPI, however, wouldve paid out in 
addition to her sick pay and potentially for longer. So I still think the policy wouldve  been 
useful for her and I dont  think  better  information  wouldve put her off taking it out.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said, including  what  shes  said about not being told 
she couldve  taken out cover with another provider.  However, it was Mrs Rs responsibility to 
shop around to find the products she wanted  - and not FICLs responsibility to make her 
aware that she could  obtain cover from other providers. So this point doesnt change  my 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6439461