K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for water damage  
was dealt with by Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
background
On 7 December  2018 Mr and Mrs A made  a claim to Admiral following their discovery of a 
leaking pipe at the back of a washing machine which had caused damage to the flooring  and 
surrounding areas.  Admiral came  out and inspected  the damage in mid-January  2019.  It 
came to the conclusion that there  was evidence of rising damp,  but no evidence of a one-off 
incident occurring.  It also said the damage had been  happening  over time and would have 
been visible, and so was excluded under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to Admiral  and said there had been a long delay in dealing  with 
the matter and in advising  them of the result of the inspection. They  also objected to the 
suggestion that there was rising damp  the property  was built in the 1970s with a full damp-
proof course. They believed there should've been an independent survey.
Admiral reiterated the reason why it declined  the claim, pointing  out that in its surveyors  
view the damage had been  occurring  over a long time. it pointed out the exclusion for 
gradual causes in the policy.  it further said that it couldnt find any fault with its claims 
handling. Mr and Mrs A referred their complaint to this service. They wanted a refund  of their 
premiums as the policy had been mis-sold,  in their view. They have since  cancelled  the 
policy.
On referral to this service  our investigator  didnt  uphold  the complaint. He said that Admiral 
had acted fairly and within  the terms of the policy. He didnt think  the delays in the handling 
of the claim were Admirals fault.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree, and the matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the claim
Mr and Mrs A object  to their claim being rejected. In particular they think  it unfair  that Admiral 
should say there was rising damp  and feel that an independent surveyor  should have been 
appointed.
In reviewing cases such as these we have to have regard to any expert  evidence.  From the 
detail of the expert surveyors report they found  that the kitchen was being  extensively 
refurbished except in the damaged area. They  found  evidence of damage  to the vinyl floor,  
which was bubbling,  and to the plywood underneath and what they considered to be rising 
damp to the walls. They thought the damage would have been visible and occurring  over 
time.
I think it reasonable to rely on the experts report.  The policy contains an exclusion for loss 
or damage  that happens gradually. I confirm this sort of exclusion is common to most 
ordinary household insurance  policies.  Mr and Mrs A say the damage occurred when they 
Ref: DRN62643352first noticed  the leak from the back of the washing machine. But I think  it unlikely that a leak 
like that would cause  the sort of damage that happened here, especially the damp  in the 
walls. Mr and Mrs A would have been  expected to stop the leak once  theyd noticed  it. So I 
think it was reasonable  for Admiral to say that the damage had been occurring over a long 
period. And gradual damage is excluded by the policy  as Ive said.
We normally say that its reasonable for insurers to rely on an exclusion for damage that 
happens gradually if the damage was likely to have been obvious. From the photos and the 
surveyors conclusions I think this damage would have been obvious. So I think it was fair for 
Admiral to apply the exclusion  here. Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A dispute the 
surveyors conclusions, I dont think itd be reasonable to expect  Admiral  to pay for another 
report. Mr and Mrs A were advised  of their right to obtain such  a report themselves.
Mr and Mrs A have  referred us to the point that Admiral referred to a policy  term which 
requires that damage  be reported within 14 days.  I think this refers  to its view that the 
damage had happened  earlier and should have been reported  when  it first became evident.  I 
dont think that policy term matters as much  as the exclusion relating to gradual  damage.
delay
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Admiral delayed in dealing with the claim and they had to live 
with a damp and smelly property while they awaited  Admiral's decision.  From  my review  of 
the files I can see that the surveyor had trouble contacting Mr and Mrs A. Ive noted  that 
Mr and Mrs A complained that the claims handlers  were only available during working hours.  
I think that unless  its an emergency its not unreasonable for insurers to be available only 
during working  hours. Unfortunately when a claim is made policyholders have to be willing to 
make themselves available even  if this causes them some inconvenience.
I note that a meeting was arranged for 7 January, but Mrs A cancelled this at the last minute. 
Eventually a site visit took place on 14 January. The case had to be referred  back  to Admiral 
for a decision which  was relayed to them by letter of 28 January. I think  the timescales  in this 
case, bearing in mind  the difficulties in setting up meetings and the Christmas break, were 
reasonable.
I think Admiral  handled  the claim reasonably.
cancellation of policy
I note that Mr and Mrs A have cancelled  their policy and have been told by Admiral there is a 
cancellation charge. I would  generally say that just because a claim is declined  doesnt 
mean that the policy wont cover their issues. If theyve chosen  to cancel the policy  Admiral 
would still be liable  under  the policy for any valid claim up until the date of cancellation. I 
cant speak for the decision  to impose  a cancellation  charge, that depends on the terms of 
the policy. If Mr and Mrs S want to make a further complaint about this they should  raise it 
with Admiral.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2020.
Ref: DRN62643353Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6264335