K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is about  a 'key facts' document  produced  by Strathearn Insurance 
Services Limited (SISL) in relation to a property deposit bond.
In summary,  Mr and Mrs S say that SISL  failed to disclose material  information  and provide 
appropriate risk warnings in the 'key facts 'document. They say that they decided to invest in 
a property investment  scheme based  solely upon the respective 'key facts' document.  The 
scheme failed, and Mr and Mrs S lost their capital. They say that had the full facts and risk 
disclosures been  made  in the 'key facts' document, they would not have invested in the 
scheme and suffered financial  loss.
background
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019  upholding  the complaint. A copy  is attached  
and forms part of this decision.
Mr and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision.
SISL did not accept  the provisional decision. Its representative said, in summary:
On the matter of jurisdiction, SISL  recognises  it has been considered by this Service  
in the jurisdiction decision in a similar  case.  Notwithstanding  this, it does not accept 
that Mr and Mrs S fall within the ordinary meaning of a client. There  was no retainer 
of SISL by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by the consumer to SISL.
The context of the investment needs to be taken into account. The members of the 
IPIN network tend to be high net worth  / sophisticated investors who are familiar 
with property club type investments. SISL  understood that the IPIN members had 
self-certified to IPIN that they were  aware of the risks of making investments of this 
nature and they invested via IPIN because they sought a high rate of return, 
something which is inevitably associated  with increased level of risk.
The investors typically received advice from other  parties including their lawyers, 
IPIN and potentially, independent financial advisers and that is something which  
needs to be taken into account. 
The provisional decision appears to regard the key facts  document as if it had 
either been a policy  summary or key features document as defined in the FCA 
Handbook. It is actually  an initial disclosure document (IDD) and should be 
treated as such. It is unfair to judge  the IDD against  the standard  of another type of 
document which it never  purported  to be.
It cannot be said that Mr and Mrs S relied on the key facts document as it appears 
quite possible that if the same  bond had been in place and they were told of the 
bond but the key facts document had not been present, they would still have  gone  
ahead with the scheme.
Each investor was required to sign their acceptance of the surety  bond  and the 
providers name  and address were displayed on the document the investor  signed.
In addition SISLs representative  said:
Ref: DRN64365832Mrs S had worked for many years for an offshore insurer.  In that capacity its likely she 
wouldve acquired  sufficient  knowledge  to make  her own assessment of the surety  
bond.  It appears  she was a highly sophisticated finance  professional.
Mrs S should  be asked to confirm further  information about her employment  experience  
and history.  She  should also confirm whether she took any steps to consider the surety 
bond and its provider  or received any advice from any other  source.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. I remain  of the view that 
the settlement  set out in my provisional  decision represents fair compensation.
It seems  to me that a lot of points raised  by SISL  were already considered  by me in the 
provisional decision. So I dont think there is much more to add to what I have already said.  
However, for completeness, I have gone  through again here what  in my view are the key 
points raised by SISLs representative in response to my provisional  decision.
can we consider  the complaint?
As I explained in my provisional decision,  SISL  had objected to this Service  considering this 
complaint, and a number  of others  similar  to it. It said Mr and Mrs S werent its customers, 
the deposit protection insurance  wasnt a regulated product and that it did not carry out any 
regulated activity.  
This was considered  at length by us in another similar case and SISL  recognises  that the 
jurisdiction issues that are relevant to this case have  been considered in the jurisdiction 
decision in that case.  So I do not want to repeat those findings  here.  I remain  of the view 
that this complaint is within  our jurisdiction for the reasons I mentioned  in my provisional 
decision.  I will however  address  the point raised  by SISL following my provisional decision 
in this regard.   
SISL says that Mr and Mrs S do not fall within the ordinary meaning of a client,  there was no 
retainer of SISL by the consumers and no remuneration was paid by them  to SISL.
Our powers to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial  Services and Markets Act
2000 (FSMA) and in rules,  known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) in accordance with the powers  it derives from FSMA. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook
DISP2.7.1R  states:
"A complaint may only be dealt  with under the Financial  Ombudsman Service  if it is 
brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant."
An eligible complainant  is defined by DISP 2.7.3R  as including a consumer, which 
means  "any natural person acting for purposes outside his trade, business  or profession".
DISP  2.7.6R  further  states:
Ref: DRN64365833To be an eligible complainant a person must  also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1)the complainant  is (or was)  a customer..  of the respondent
(2)the complainant  is (or was)  a potential customer of the respondent
     ..
(5) the complainant  is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken 
out or was intended to be taken out with or through the respondent "
Mr and Mrs S were  beneficiaries under a contract  of insurance. And for the reasons already 
explained, I am satisfied  that the contract of insurance was taken through SISL. So I 
consider that Mr and Mrs S are eligible complainants under DISP  2.7.6(5)R.
It may be that no remuneration was paid directly  by Mr and Mrs S but often  insurance  
brokers are paid commission  by the insurer and that is what had happened here. SISL was 
paid commission by the insurer NWIC. As stated  in the key facts  document the commission 
was about 11% of the premium, paid by the developer  to NWIC.  As I understand  it, the 
premium in turn was 2.25%  of the deposit paid by Mr and Mrs S. Of this, 2% was retained by 
NWIC and 0.25% was paid as commission  to SISL. 
In addition, I also consider  that Mr and Mrs S are eligible complainants  under DISP  
2.7.6(2)R.   It may be that there was no retainer of SISL by Mr and Mrs S but I am satisfied 
that they were  potential  customers  of SISL and therefore eligible complainants under the 
DISP rules.   
SISL in its capacity as a regulated insurance intermediary offered its services to potential 
customers. It said in the key facts document: Due to the regulated nature of the product 
offered, any direct questions relating  specifically to the bond  aspect of the SES offering 
should be directed to Strathearn Insurance using the contact  details below ..
It further  said:   The FSA requires you to be provided with this information. Use this 
information to decide if our services are right for you..
It also referred  to our Service  in the event  of any complaint  and to the FSCS  in the 
event  SISL  could  not meet  its obligations.  Thus  I am satisfied  that SISL  envisaged  the 
recipients  of the key facts  document  of the specific  schemes  as its potential  
customers.  
It may be that Mr and Mrs S did not eventually approach SISL, but SISL made its services 
available to them in its capacity as the regulated  firm. And as noted earlier, SISL was paid 
commission in relation to the deposits  made, whether or not the respective investors 
contacted it. 
Taking all of this into account,  it is my view that Mr and Mrs S were  potential customers of 
SISL and therefore eligible complainants under DISP 2.7.6(2)R as well. 
relevant considerations
I am required to determine this complaint  on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN64365834When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulator's rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice;  and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The FCA Handbook sets out the Principles which are a general  statement of the 
fundamental obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients,  and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential  client (and so potential  customer). 
Mr and Mrs S were  potential customers, and their complaint is essentially about what SISL 
communicated (or failed  to communicate)  to them through the 'key facts' document.   So I 
consider that Principle  7 is relevant here.
I also consider that Principle 6 is relevant in this instance, which  says:  "A firm must  pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
As I understand it, IPIN circulated promotional literature for the development scheme  to its 
members. This was called  the Investment Analysis  Document  (IAD).   It said:  "The property 
deposit is provided by the developer in association with Strathearn Insurance Services Ltd... 
Strathearn Insurance have provided a set of Key facts associated with the property  deposit  
bond which can be viewed in the IAD".
The IAD said:
"The property deposit bond is provided by the developer in association  with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  17)". 
Page 17 is where  SISL's 'key facts' document can be found.
So when SISL produced  and provided the 'key facts'  document for the IAD, it knew  that the 
consumers were being referred to the 'key facts' for information about the bond. So SISL  had 
an obligation  to ensure  that the information  it provided about the bond was clear,  fair, and 
not misleading.
was the information provided clear, fair, and not misleading?
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision, I remain  of the view that that SISL  did 
not provide clear, fair and not misleading information  about  the insurance  in its key facts  
document provided to Mr and Mrs S.
SISL says that what it provided was an IDD. However I note that this document  was 
referred to as a key facts document by SISL itself on more than occasion. The IAD also 
refers to it as a key facts  document  and not as an IDD.   
In any event, as I explained  in the provisional decision, this key facts document was 
clearly intended  as the source of information  about the bond for potential customers  
thinking about investing in the schemes  and SISL was aware  of it. So I consider that 
Ref: DRN64365835SISL had an obligation to ensure that this communication was clear,  fair and not 
misleading.
did Mr and Mrs S rely on the key facts document? 
Having concluded  that the key facts document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading,  I 
need to consider how much reliance Mr and Mrs S placed on this document  before they 
decided to make the relevant investment.
For the reasons  explained my provisional  decision I think it is reasonable to conclude that Mr 
and Mrs S looked at what SISL stated in the key facts document  about the bond, and relied 
on it when they decided to proceed with the scheme.
SISL says that members  of the IPIN network were frequently high net worth / sophisticated 
investors who were familiar with property club type investments.  It says that they were 
aware of the risks they were taking and had sufficient advice to make  informed decision. 
On the other hand, Mr and Mrs S say that they had very little investment experience.   They 
were investing the proceeds from the sale of their home, and were looking for a safe 
investment with a fairly high return.   Because of this, the security offered by the insurance 
was crucial in their decision making.  Their understanding was that their funds would be 
protected from loss, but also had the opportunity  for high growth rates.
In my view the issue here is not so much  about consumers net worth or their 
knowledge of the investment (i.e. the property scheme  opportunities) but about the 
insurance that was intended to offer protection should something go wrong with the 
investment.  To that extent, I accept  that Mr and Mrs S were not expert enough to 
understand the intricacies of the insurance product - for example the solvency of the 
insurer or whether  they would be eligible for FSCS  protection should something happen 
to the insurer. This is more so as the insurer was based overseas. So I do not consider 
it unreasonable when they say that they relied  on SISLs information in relation to the 
bond.  
SISL has also said that investors  typically received  advice from other parties including  
their lawyers, IPIN and potentially other  independent  financial advisers,  and that is 
something the investigator failed to take into account. 
I have considered what SISL  has said and I am not persuaded  by it. As previously 
mentioned, in the marketing literature IPIN clearly directed the potential investors 
towards SISL for information about the bond and not to other professionals.  As I 
understand it, IPIN was concerned that it or other related companies should not provide 
information or advice  in relation to the insurance as they were  not authorised by the 
FCA in that regard. This was why SISL  was brought in to handle  that part of the 
scheme. 
Also, as noted  earlier, the key facts  document / IAD recommended that consumers 
seek independent advice on the investment proposals and contract.  However for 
information about the bond they were  directed to seek  information from SISL. 
Given all this, it seems  to me that the clear  intention was that SISL was responsible for 
providing information about the bond. So I am doubtful whether the potential investors 
Ref: DRN64365836would have been directed  to other professional  people for information  or advice about 
the bond. 
Nevertheless, even if it is the case that Mr and Mrs S consider that another  professional  
also failed them in their obligations, then it is up to them to decide whether they want to 
take action against either  or both.  In my view,  even if another  professional  was involved 
concerning the bond, that does not absolve SISL of the obligations it owed to its 
customers or potential customers. Mr and Mrs S consider that SISL failed in its 
obligations to them and they are entitled to bring that complaint of theirs  about SISL  to 
us, which  they have done. 
SISL has also pointed  us to the bond schedule that was signed  by the investors.  It says 
that the schedule provided the name and address of the insurance company and so 
Mr and Mrs S ought to have known  that the insurer was an overseas insurer.  
Firstly, Im mindful  that SISLs key facts document was produced as part of the pre-sale 
literature, whereas the Schedule was only handed over after the investment had been 
arranged and monies paid over. And in any event, the document also did not highlight the 
risks involved adequately - for example,  they did not highlight  the lack of FSCS protection. 
SISL has also argued that Mr and Mrs S would still have invested even if the key facts 
document had not been provided, simply in the knowledge that a deposit bond was in 
place.  
IPIN directed the potential investors to SISLs key facts document for information about 
NWIC and the insurance protection it provided. 
In the key facts  document  SISL clearly gave  the impression that it was the expert  and it 
told the consumers  that they accept the policy  as it was designed to work specifically 
with the investment proposal developed for IPIN SES investors". 
As it happened the insurer  failed. Had the key facts  document  provided the appropriate 
warnings about  the insurer  then I do not think that Mr and Mrs S would have gone 
ahead with the scheme.  
In other  words, that the bond was in place isnt just the reason why Mr and Mrs S 
invested in the scheme.  They invested in the scheme with the belief that the bond would 
satisfy their needs (i.e. protection  of their capital) and I consider that SISLs  key facts 
document which provided information about  the bond played a key role in leading  them  
to believe so.
The bond  cannot be considered in a vacuum.  It seems to me that to understand whether 
or not Mr and Mrs S most likely relied  on the key facts document,  it is necessary to first 
understand the features  of the overall  scheme.  Then consider the role played by the 
deposit bond within that scheme. And then go on to consider what information was 
provided in relation to that product and whether  the consumer relied on that information.
Thus whilst I have considered the bond within the wider context of the investment - to be 
clear - the key question  I have considered is what the consumer has complained  about  - 
which is about the key facts document  provided by the SISL.  
Im aware that in this complaint SISL has raised particular concerns about Mrs S personal 
knowledge and experience  given that she had a senior role within an overseas insurer.   
Ref: DRN64365837In my provisional decision I explained  that didnt necessarily mean  she had an 
understanding of a niche  product such as a surety bond, and the implications associated 
with it.  But  following SISLs  comments in response to my provisional findings, I asked Mrs 
S to clarify her professional experience.
Mrs S explained that she is employed in a management role within  an overseas insurer  
with business  development  and sales responsibility,  and has no insurance or financial 
services qualifications.   Her prior positions  were in residential property sales, general 
sales or office administration roles.   So I remain  satisfied that she isnt likely to have had 
any particular knowledge that may have influenced the decision by her and Mr S to invest.
So overall, I remain of broadly  the same conclusions  as set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
To put things right, Strathearn Insurance  Services  Limited  should  pay to Mr and Mrs S the 
fair compensation set out in my attached provisional  decision.
It should also pay interest at 8% simple per year on this amount from date of decision to date 
of settlement, if compensation is not paid within 28 days  of the business being notified of 
acceptance. Income tax may be payable on this interest payment. 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should  also provide details of its calculation  to Mr and 
Mrs S in a clear,  simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64365838COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  is about a 'key facts'  document produced by Strathearn Insurance Services 
Limited (SISL) in relation to a property  deposit  bond.
In summary, Mr and Mrs S say that SISL  failed to disclose material information  and provide 
appropriate risk warnings  in the 'key facts  'document.  They say that they decided to invest  in a 
property investment scheme based solely upon the respective 'key facts'  document. The scheme  
failed, and Mr and Mrs S lost their capital. They say that had the full facts and risk disclosures been 
made in the 'key facts' document, they would  not have invested  in the scheme and suffered financial 
loss.
background
Mr and Mrs S were members of IPIN Global  Prospects  Network (IPIN). This is an investment 
network which aims to provide real estate schemes to its members. IPIN is the trading name of a 
Spanish company  (Global Prospects S.L.),  which is not regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority  
(FCA) or the authorities in Spain. 
IPIN typically marketed  its schemes  as secure exit strategies (SES). As I understand it, under this 
strategy, the investors funded property developments such as hotels, student accommodation and 
residential care homes  by way of a deposit. The deposits were  initially sent to a lawyer  where they 
were maintained within an escrow account.  The developer would draw the deposit down, when 
needed, to finance the project. The property units would  be sold by the developer before  a set date, 
and the investor would  get their deposit  back, along with a share  of any profits  from sale.
A key feature  of SES schemes was the protection offered to the investors for their deposits.  This was 
provided by the property developer  entering into an insurance contract  with an insurer.  So if a project 
failed or the developer defaulted, the investors - who were named as the beneficiaries of the 
insurance contract - could claim any difference  between  the deposit paid and any money already 
returned to them.
The deposits  held in escrow could  only be drawn  down  by the developer after they had put this 
insurance in place  for each scheme. This insurance was called a Property Deposit  Bond (the bond).  
Mr and Mrs S's complaint against SISL  is in relation to this insurance product.
Mr and Mrs S invested in a development  scheme called  Enterprise House in April 2012, paying a 
deposit of £21,806.  
The bond was underwritten by an offshore insurer  based in Nevis  called Northern & Western 
Insurance Company  (NWIC).
In April 2014  the company  behind the Enterprise House  development  went  into liquidation. Mr and 
Mrs S received no payment  from the property developer, so attempted to claim against the bond.  
However NWIC  itself entered liquidation  in January 2015. Mr and Mrs S contacted the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme  (FSCS) to make a claim, but discovered they couldnt  as NWIC 
was not regulated by the FCA, and so they werent  protected by the FSCS. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to SISL. They asked why SISL recommended a product from NWIC, 
without telling  consumers  who the insurer  was, and warning them  that the usual  protections  provided 
by the FCA and FSCS wouldnt be in place.  Had this been made clear, Mr and Mrs S said they 
wouldnt have invested  at all, and so wouldnt have lost their money. 
SISL responded and said, in summary, that Mr and Mrs S werent its customers and the NWIC bond 
wasnt insurance. 
Ref: DRN64365839Mr and Mrs S disagreed and so referred their complaint  to this Service.  
my provisional  findings
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint for 
the reasons set out below. 
SISL has previously objected to this Service considering  this complaint,  and a number of others 
similar to it. Briefly, it has said Mr and Mrs S werent its customers, and that the deposit protection 
insurance wasnt a regulated  product.  
This was considered at length  by us in another similar case  and SISL recognises that the jurisdiction 
issues that are relevant to this case have  been  considered  in the jurisdiction decision in that case. So 
I do not want  to repeat that here. However, for the avoidance of doubt - I am satisfied  this complaint is 
within our jurisdiction. In summary I consider  that: 
(a) The bond which the consumers  have complained about is a contract of insurance. 
(b) SISL carried out the regulated activity of arranging (bringing  about) deals in investments  
and/or making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments. 
(c) Mr and Mrs S are eligible complainants.
relevant considerations
I am required to determine  this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulator's  rules, guidance  and standards, and codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time.
The FCA Handbook sets out the Principles which  are a general statement  of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs  of its clients,  and communicate information to 
them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential client (and so potential  customer). 
Mr and Mrs S were potential customers,  and their complaint is essentially about what SISL 
communicated (or failed to communicate) to them through the 'key facts' document.  So I consider 
that Principle 7 is relevant here.
I also consider  that Principle  6 is relevant in this instance, which  says: "A firm must pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
As I understand it, IPIN circulated promotional literature  for the development  scheme to its members. 
This was called the Investment Analysis Document (IAD).  It said:  "The  property deposit is provided 
by the developer in association with Strathearn Insurance Services Ltd... Strathearn Insurance have 
provided a set of Key facts associated with the property deposit  bond which can be viewed in the 
IAD".
The IAD said:
Ref: DRN643658310"The property  deposit bond is provided  by the developer in association  with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  17)". 
Page 17 is where SISL's 'key facts' document can be found.
So when SISL produced  and provided  the 'key facts'  document for the IAD, it knew that the 
consumers were  being referred  to the 'key facts' for information about the bond.  So SISL had an 
obligation to ensure that the information  it provided about the bond was clear, fair, and not misleading.
was the information  provided clear, fair, and not misleading?
Mr and Mrs S say it was not. They say SISL failed  to make clear to them  the risks associated with the 
insurance  specifically  that NWIC was not regulated by the FCA, and so their money  was not 
protected by the FSCS.  Had they been aware  of these things, Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have 
invested in Enterprise  House.  
Having considered  everything, Im minded to agree that the information provided  in the key facts 
document was not clear  or fair; and was misleading.  
There is no mention in the key facts that the insurer was NWIC. The document does not state that 
NWIC was not regulated by the FCA. And there was no warning that should  the insurer  fail to meet  its 
obligations, consumers  would be unable to claim their losses under the FSCS. 
Also, considering that this was the document that the consumers were referred to in the marketing 
literature for explanation about the bond, it would be reasonable to expect  that it explained  the key 
terms and conditions  of the bond but that wasnt the case. So I consider that the information wasnt 
clear.
Further, the 'key facts'  document  said: "Strathearn Insurance  recommends that you accept this policy, 
as it is designed to work specifically  with the investment proposal developed for IPIN SES investors ".
However it did not highlight the potential risks as noted earlier.  I consider that failing to balance its 
recommendation to potential customers to 'accept the policy' with explanation  of the potential risks 
meant that the information  was presented in a misleading, and not in a fair way.
Overall, I consider that SISL did not provide clear, fair and not misleading  information about the 
insurance in its key facts document provided  to Mr and Mrs S.
did Mr and Mrs S rely on the 'key facts' document?
Having concluded  that the 'key facts'  document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading, I need to 
consider how much reliance Mr and Mrs S placed on this document before  they decided  to make the 
relevant investment.
Mr and Mrs S say they relied solely on the key facts  document before making their decision to invest. 
To determine the likelihood of this, I have  considered  what it was they were  looking for when they 
decided to invest in Enterprise House.
Mr and Mrs S say the money they invested came from their savings. They were living and working 
abroad at the time, and had the proceeds of sale from their UK home in an overseas  account. 
Following the collapse of the banking system, they were worried about  having  so much on deposit. 
They wanted  access to higher rates  of growth than those available if they left the funds  on deposit, 
but also wanted their money to remain secure. 
Mrs S had a management role for an overseas insurance  company, and Mr S was self- employed, but 
also had a part-time job to supplement his income. They had no previous investment experience, and 
had looked into fixed rate bonds,  before  finding IPINs website and looking at the options it offered. 
Ref: DRN643658311The way the investment was described  as ultra-low risk  and the fundamental role of the 
insurance in making  the investment secure, even  if the project failed, was, they say, the main reason 
they went  ahead with the investment. 
Property schemes generally have potential for higher returns.  So I can see why Mr and Mrs S 
considered them given they were looking to grow their savings over the medium term.  On the other 
hand, they tend to involve  a higher level of risk and that would not be suitable  for their capital  safety 
objective. However,  in this instance the scheme was marketed as 'ultra low risk exposure' and it is 
clear from the promotional  literature that the protection offered through the bond was a key selling 
point to convince  the consumers  the scheme was indeed  'low risk'. So, given their objective  and 
circumstances, I am persuaded  that Mr and Mrs S would  not have considered investing in the scheme 
without the protection offered by the bond.
So the next question I have to consider is whether Mr and Mrs S relied on SISL's 'key facts' document 
for information about the bond before  deciding to invest in the scheme.
IPIN directed  potential investors, like Mr and Mrs S, to SISLs key facts document for information 
about the bond. The key facts said: 
 Due to the regulated  nature  of the product  offered  any direct questions relating specifically to the 
bond aspect of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn  Insurance using the contact details 
below. 
This clearly portrays SISL as the entity that potential  investors  needed to look to for information  about  
the bond.  And SISL portrayed itself in the key facts as a specialised advisory  services  company 
dedicated to residential and commercial real estate markets. SISL also said The companys  
solutions are supported by leading international speciality  insurance groups. 
And SISL went on to state in the 'key facts':
"What services will Strathearn  Insurance provide you with?
Strathearn Insurance recommends that you accept this policy  as it is designed  to work  specifically 
with the investment proposal developed  for IPIN SES investor.
Strathearn Insurance does not offer advice on the SES investment  proposal, the associated  contracts  
or their interpretation... You are recommended to obtain independent  legal advice on all associated 
contract, and the duties,  responsibilities and obligations of the parties to the contracts."
The way this is written  I consider that a distinction was made between the insurance part of the 
scheme and the rest of the investment, and that SISL  was portrayed as the financial business  tasked 
with providing  information about the insurance.
So Im persuaded  that Mr and Mrs S looked at the things SISL said in the key facts document in 
respect of the bond, and reasonably relied  upon those representations  when deciding  to invest  in the 
scheme. 
Mrs S may have been employed  by an insurance broker, but I dont think that made her sophisticated 
in respect of insurance matters, certainly  not with regard  to surety  bonds (as SISL has described the 
property deposit insurance). These are highly  specialised products, and I dont think  Mrs S knew 
sufficient about this type of insurance to have recognised from SISLs key facts document that key 
information was missing.  On balance, I think she did rely on SISL to provide information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. And I am minded  to find that this reliance was reasonable.  
SISL knew, or ought reasonably to have known,  that potential investors would be directed  to its key 
facts document for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to ensure that document  was 
clear, fair, and not misleading.  But, as Ive set out above,  Im not presently persuaded it did this. 
Ref: DRN643658312The scheme  Mr and Mrs S invested  in failed and NWIC has been liquidated. Mr and Mrs S have 
suffered a loss as a result. And, from what Ive seen so far, I think had SISL provided information  
about the risks involved with the bond which was clear,  fair, and not misleading, they wouldnt have 
invested in the scheme. So it is fair that SISL compensate  them  for the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr and Mrs S 
back in the position  they would likely have been in but for SISL's failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above, its my conclusion that if the key risks of the bond - which 
was the key component of the SES  had been explained clearly, its more  likely  than not that Mr and 
Mrs S wouldn't have invested in the Enterprise  House development  at all.
I am satisfied  Mr and Mrs S were looking to invest  their money, so I think they would  have invested 
elsewhere, but with capital protection. Its not possible to say precisely what  they would have done 
differently. But I am satisfied that what I have  set out below is fair, given their objective for growth  with 
capital protection.
To compensate Mr and Mrs S fairly, SISL should calculate the position Mr and Mrs S would now be in 
if their investments had produced a return matching  the average  rate for fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England.
I have chosen this method of compensation because in my view Mr and Mrs S had wanted to achieve  
a reasonable return without risking any of their capital. The average rate would be a fair measure 
given their circumstances and objective. It does not mean that they would have  invested only in a 
fixed rate bond. But rather its the sort of investment return a consumer  could have obtained with little 
risk to their capital.
The compensation  payable  to Mr and Mrs S is the difference  between  the fair value and the actual 
value of their investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is 
payable.
actual value
This means  the amount received by Mr and Mrs S out of the scheme. I understand they have 
received nothing from the administrators of Enterprise House.
If the investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open market), it may be difficult  
to work  out what the actual  value  is. In such a case the actual  value should  be assumed  to be zero. 
This is provided Mr and Mrs S agree to SISL taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is 
not possible for SISL to take ownership,  then it may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs S that 
they repay to SISL  any amount they may receive  from the investment in future. 
fair value
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, the business  should  use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Ref: DRN643658313my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
To put things right, Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should pay to Mr and Mrs S the fair 
compensation as set out above.
It should also pay interest at 8% simple  per year on this amount  from date of decision to date of 
settlement, if compensation is not paid within 28 days of the business being notified of acceptance. 
Income tax may be payable on this interest payment. 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should also provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs S in 
a clear, simple  format.
Ref: DRN6436583