K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2006. Mr T says Santander UK Plc (at the time Abbey) mis-sold the MPPI. 
The mortgage was in joint names with Ms C  who has also joined in this complaint  but 
Mr T is the one who was sold the policy. It only provided cover  for him  and he has provided  
the testimony. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr T and Ms Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing, so Ill explain my 
reasons for reaching this outcome below.
Mr T says that he was completely harassed  and bullied in to taking out the MPPI. He says 
that he didnt need to have cover and was advised  to take out the policy.  Santander  has also 
provided information about Mr T and Ms Cs mortgage  and the policy sold to Mr T. 
Mr T and Ms C had their mortgage with Santander since  1990   there was no MPPI  policy  
attached to this mortgage. It was sold to Mr T during a phone call with a Santander advisor 
16 years  later. Its not clear what prompted this call, and Santander hasnt said if it was an 
inbound or outbound  call. But it has confirmed that there was no further borrowing  taken  at 
the time.  
Santander has also provided a copy of a document called a High level needs  analysis that 
shows broadly what  was discussed, and declined to discuss during the call. It has also 
provided a copy of the advisors recommendation which  was sent out in the post. 
Theres no call recording  so I cant know for certain what was said, although this isnt 
unusual for a sale that took place so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. But I do know that Mr T and Ms C had already had their mortgage for a 
long time  and they werent taking  on any extra  borrowing. So I think that Mr T wouldve  
known that he didnt need to take the MPPI  in order to get his mortgage. And while  he says 
he was harassed and bullied in to taking  it out, I dont have anything  to support this 
allegation.
So taking everything in to account,  I think Santander made it clear that Mr T didnt have to 
take out the MPPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this as it was so long ago.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr T so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for 
him and Ms C  and based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ts circumstances at the time,  I think  that 
it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN64712872Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr T about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think he chose to take it out - it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI would have  
put him off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr T and 
Ms C.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr T and Ms C because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about  that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr T 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said - including what  hes said about having 
adequate cover from his employer  if he was off sick, and that he tried to cancel the policy but 
was told he couldnt  and was persuaded to keep  it.
But the MPPI couldve paid out on top of any existing cover Mr T had in place  and for 
longer than he wouldve received full pay for. And as Ive said above, I think  that Mr T knew 
he had a choice  in taking the policy  so he wouldve known he didnt have to keep it. And 
being persuaded to retain a policy is not the same as being  told that you cant cancel it. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr T and Ms C any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Santander  should also pay back to Mr T and Ms C 
any extra  interest  they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr T and Ms C the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Santander 
should also pay Mr T and Ms C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T and Ms C can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr T and Ms C.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr T and Ms C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Ref: DRN64712873Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6471287