K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about poor service and says that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc applied  unfair 
charges, including damage  and excess mileage, at the end of his vehicle hire agreement. He 
wants the charges  to be waived.
background
Mr P tells us that in October 2015  he took out a 24 month vehicle hire agreement. At the 
same time he says he took out other related insurance including a scratch and dent policy. 
Mr P explains that he was aware of the requirement  to have the vehicle serviced and 
repaired before  it was returned to Hitachi. And to that end in August 2017 he contacted  
Hitachi and tried to arrange  for the servicing to be done on 27 October. He says the repairs 
were to be done on 25 October. But when he didnt hear from Hitachi  he phoned again and 
discovered his local service provider was fully booked  on the preferred date.
Mr P further explains that hed already  arranged  delivery of a new lease vehicle  - with a 
different hirer - as he needed  a vehicle for his employment from the start of November. But 
despite various discussions he says it wasnt possible  to rearrange for the servicing to be 
done until 16 November.  Mr P says he cancelled the repairs - due to the delay in servicing  - 
and hadnt been able to re-arrange  it prior to the date of collection on 17 November. And he 
states that he reorganised the delivery of his new vehicle - meaning he used his existing 
vehicle for work. Mr P states that as result  of the delays he was invoiced for the excess  
mileage charges along with the charges for damage and extended  hire period. He doesnt  
feel thats fair.
Hitachi told us the charges  had been  applied in line with the terms and conditions of the hire 
agreement. It said it had charged only two days (as opposed to 19 days)  informal extension  
charges. It acknowledged  there had been issues in arranging  the servicing of the vehicle but 
felt the reduction  in the informal extension charges took this into account. It said the damage 
had been assessed according  to guidelines issued  by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) and the excess mileage was charged in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She issued her first view 
in October 2019  and then, following a lengthy reply  from Mr P, she issued a second view, in 
November 2019.  This dealt comprehensively with points raised by Mr P in his reply. As both 
parties have seen this I neednt repeat  the detailed reasons for her findings here. But in 
summary, she said she thought Hitachi had dealt  with the complaint fairly and its gesture of 
goodwill in charging for only two days  of extra hire was fair and reasonable. And she thought 
the charges for damage and excess miles had been  correctly applied.
Mr P didnt agree with this outcome and maintained the charges had arisen from the delay 
and poor service from Hitachi. As its not been  possible  to resolve the complaint  an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67432582Ive been provided  with a large  amount of evidence  by the parties in this case.  And if I dont 
comment on an individual item, its not that I havent taken it on board. Its just that I dont 
think I need to refer to it separately in order to give the reasons for my decision. 
I think I can fairly characterise Mr Ps complaint by saying  that - whilst there are several 
separate areas of concern - they all arise  from the same issue.  And that is the delay he 
experienced in getting the vehicle serviced. Mr P believes this delay was caused  by Hitachi 
failing to action  his request, made  in a phone call in August 2017, to arrange the servicing  of 
the vehicle for 27 October. Whilst Hitachi  has no record of that call, Mr P has provided 
information from his own records  and Im happy  to accept that he did try to make the 
arrangements that hes detailed.  Although I think its likely that Hitachi  didnt process  this 
request at the time,  Im not of the opinion that this has directly caused  the issues  about 
which he now complains.  Ill explain why I take this view.
Most of the basic facts  in this case arent really in dispute. The hire agreement had been  due 
to end on 29 October 2017. But following the discovery that the vehicle couldnt be serviced 
on Mr Ps preferred date of 27 October, alternative  arrangements were eventually  agreed. 
The result was the vehicle was serviced on 16 November and collected by Hitachi  on 17 
November. At the time of collection  the vehicle was examined and the items of damage were 
identified along  with the vehicles mileage.  Hitachi then invoiced Mr P for two days  additional 
hire, damage and excess mileage.
The information provided by the parties shows that once Mr P became aware the vehicle 
couldnt be serviced on the 27 October various  discussions took place about  alternative 
arrangements. And I can see that on 19 October  a service appointment was offered for 30 
October. Its noted  that Mr P said he couldnt drop the vehicle off on this day and required it 
to be collected.  Apparently Hitachi wont arrange for the collection of a vehicle  where the 
service warning light is illuminated. I understand the service centre is fairly close to Mr Ps 
address, so whilst  I can understand a preference for the vehicle to be collected, I think the 
vehicle couldve been serviced on that day. And if this had occurred there  wouldve  been  no 
need for the two week extension which was then offered  prior to the next appointment. In 
these circumstances  it cant  reasonably be said that this delay was caused  by Hitachi.
It arose  as Mr P wasnt  able to take the vehicle to his local service  centre.
Ive also considered the contents of a phone call on 24 October  and for which  Mr P has 
provided a transcript.  The call appears  to be in the context of Mr P trying  to arrange a date 
for the vehicle to be serviced. And the call handler does advise Mr P to inform  her when the 
service is booked so that a note can be made  to ensure he isnt charged for any late return.
Firstly, its clear the call relates only to the servicing arrangements  and not to any charges 
for damage  and/or excess miles. The call handler wouldnt be in a position  to know  of such 
details. And as it appears the service  hadnt  been arranged I dont think  it would  be fair to 
treat the call as an open ended commitment by Hitachi to not applying  charges no matter  
what length of delay there was in returning the vehicle. Id also question  if a call handler 
would have the required authority to give any such assurance and whether it was reasonable 
to assume they did. I feel in the circumstances that Hitachi agreeing to waive all but two 
days of the additional 19 days is a fair and reasonable offer in respect  of this aspect.
Ref: DRN67432583Apparently Mr Ps work commitments  mean  that periodically he has to travel large distances 
and it seems hed arranged his work schedule so that these  journeys  would  be undertaken 
with his new vehicle  in early November. As the servicing hadnt  been done, hes postponed 
the delivery date of the new vehicle. As a result  he says the excess mileage hes now 
incurred arose from the delayed  servicing  as he was obliged to use his existing vehicle. 
Again, Id observe that if the service had been  completed on 30 October  this issue  wouldnt 
have arisen. I also note the agreement was for 20,000 miles (after  which  charges would 
apply) which averages out at around 833 miles per month. The final inspection report shows  
an odometer reading of 23,506. So even allowing for the slightly  extended hire period the 
mileage is well in excess of the stipulated levels. So I think  the charge was fairly applied.
Theres seemingly no dispute about  the nature of the damage  identified. And Mr P had 
originally arranged for repairs to be undertaken on 25 October. He seems to have cancelled 
this arrangement once  it became clear the vehicle wasnt going  to be serviced  on the 
preferred date. And apparently his insurers couldnt  rearrange the appointment prior to the 
revised date of collection. I can understand that it wouldve  been  preferable if repairs  
couldve been carried out after Mr P had done the additional travel his work  entailed. But 
presumably if the servicing had been  done on 30 October there  wouldve been  no need for 
the original date of repairs  to be postponed.  So I dont think its right to hold Hitachi 
responsible for this. 
Its always possible that additional damage  mightve occurred after repairs were done  but Id 
think it was far from probable. Had the repairs been  fully completed it seems  highly unlikely  
that - without  a fairly major incident  - a level of damage sufficient to take it outside BVRLA 
guidelines would occur during the additional  3,000 or so miles that Mr P seems to have 
covered.
The inspection report contains photographs of the damage which Im satisfied show it to be 
outside the BVRLA guidelines. I also agree that the charges imposed are reasonable and 
within the scale Id have expected.
I accept that Hitachis  customer  service standards might not always  have reached the 
desired standard in this complaint. I think that the reduction in the hire extension charges 
represents a fair and reasonable  means  of compensating for any failures of service  levels.
In summary,  I think its probable that if Hitachi had actioned Mr Ps request for a servicing  
date earlier, its possible his preferred date wouldve been available.  And that mightve 
avoided some of the subsequent problems which arose. But I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to say that the charges  arose directly from any delay that was consequent upon 
poor administration. 
Whilst I understand his reasons for doing so, the decisions to postpone repairs  from 25 
October and not accept  the rescheduling of the servicing to 30 October  were  decisions made  
by Mr P. It was as a consequence of these decisions that he put back the delivery of his new 
vehicle and covered additional (excess) mileage in the existing hire vehicle. And Mr Ps 
preferred dates left little margin for unforeseen problems to be overcome before the end of 
the hire period. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to hold Hitachi  responsible for 
what happened.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr P Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN67432584my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6743258