K822xcomplaint
Mr U complains One Sure Insurance Limited caused him to have a commercial motor  
insurance policy cancelled and provided  poor customer  service.
background 
In July 2018 Mr U took out a courier motor insurance policy  through  One Sure. A few weeks 
later the policy  was cancelled. One Sure accepted  it had been at fault for that. So it waived 
some charges. It then arranged a new policy for Mr U. He then cancelled  that policy himself. 
Mr U has a number of complaint points.  These  include One Sure causing the policy  to be 
cancelled, incorrectly charging him and failing  to account for payments he made.  He feels it 
unfairly failed to apply  a no claims discount (NCD) to his policy. He also says its responsible 
for him losing out on income.  
Our Investigator  said One Sure should  refund £300 it charged Mr U as an arrangement  fee 
for the second  policy. She said it should refund  £10 it charged for sending him letters by 
recorded delivery. And that it should  send Mr U a letter of apology  explaining his policy had 
been cancelled  because of its error. In response One Sure  did all that. Mr U didnt accept the 
assessment. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service I havent responded to every one of Mr Us complaint points. 
Ive only addressed what I consider the key issues. But Id like to reassure Mr U that I have 
considered each of his complaint points.   
One Sure accepts  it was at fault for Mr Us first policy being cancelled. So I havent looked at 
what went wrong there. Ive instead considered if One Sures done enough to put things 
right. That includes  considering if Mr Us lost out financially because of the cancellation. 
Having done so, I cant say that he has. 
One Sure waived  cancellation and commission charges.  It did unfairly charge Mr U an 
arrangement fee of £300 for his new policy. But its since  refunded  that. 
For the first policy Mr U seems to have been  charged a pro-rata amount for the time the 
cover was in place. So he didnt lose out by paying a disproportionate  amount for the short 
time he had the policy. It doesnt seem Mr U was charged a premium for the time without 
cover. A £700 deposit seems to have been applied correctly to the first policy. It seems  a 
credit balance from the first policy was applied to the new one. So I cant  say Mr U was 
unfairly charged fees or premiums as a result of the cancellation of the policy or by One Sure  
for any other  reason. 
Mr U says he and the named  drivers  were  put at risk of driving without cover for 30 days.  
One Sure says that they would have been indemnified during the period without insurance. 
But in any event it doesnt seem there were any accidents or claims. According to Mr U he 
lost contracts because of the cancellation.  Hes been asked to provide more information  
about this but he hasnt.  So I cant say hes shown that One Sure has caused him to lose out 
on income or financially in any other way.  
Ref: DRN63057202According to One Sure  Mr U wont need  to declare the cancellation. Its provided a letter  
explaining that the cancellation was its fault. He can show it to future insurers  if they have 
any concerns. 
So One Sure did cause  the policy to be cancelled. But considering it arranged new cover 
and didnt charge  or refunded related fees  I think its now done  enough to put things right. 
According to Mr U, One Sure unfairly failed to apply NCD to his policy.  But as far as I can 
see the policy wasnt intended to have NCD applied. It doesnt seem to have been quoted  or 
sold on the basis it would be. The statement of fact shows  zero years NCD. So I havent 
seen enough for me to say One Sure unfairly  failed to apply NCD to his policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making One Sure  Insurance Limited do anything  differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6305720