K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr Y took out MPPI  at about the same time as he took out a mortgage  in 1993. The 
policy cost £6 a month. And if hed successfully claimed on it, each month  it would have 
paid out £100. The MPPI  would have covered him for up to 24 months for accident,  
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr Y didnt  agree,  
so the case has been passed  to me to make decide.
my findings
I have considered all of the available evidence and arguments from the outset, in order 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Weve explained  how we generally  handle  complaints about the sale of payment  
protection insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Mr Ys case.
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
   Mr Y says that he was told that the MPPI  was compulsory. But I think he knew that it 
was optional and that he chose to take it. I say this because  Ive seen Mr Ys signed 
mortgage application form. This has a section in it dealing with MPPI. This says that 
Halifax strongly recommends that the applicant considers taking  out the insurance. 
And if they want to join the scheme  the applicant should enter  amount of monthly 
benefit required in the box in the section. I can see that the box has been  marked by 
hand. But Im not clear  whether this is a crossing out or a tick. In any event, there is no 
figure in the box. I dont know who filled in the form. But even if it had been  Halifaxs  
representative Im satisfied that Mr Y would have had the chance  to review the 
completed form before signing  it. So I find this shows that Mr Y didnt have to take out a 
certain minimum amount  of cover to get his mortgage and that, in fact, he didnt chose 
any amount of cover at the stage of applying for his mortgage. 
I have  also seen Mr Ys MPPI application. He signed  this some seven weeks  later 
than his mortgage application.  So I can see that he consented to take out the policy at 
a later date. And, as the application was a separate form from the mortgage application, 
I think this made it clear that the insurance  was a separate product.
Because of the time that has passed, I can understand why Mr Y doesnt remember 
the detail of how the MPPI was sold.
    Halifax advised Mr Y to take out MPPI. This means that it had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that it was suitable for his needs. I find that it was suitable. This is 
because, knowing  what I do about  the terms and conditions of the policy and Mr Ys 
circumstances at the time:
oMr Y was eligible  for the MPPI;
Ref: DRN61632102oMr Y wasnt caught by any of the policys main  limitations and restrictions  such  
as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
oMr Y says that he had some shares  which could have helped him make  his 
mortgage repayments had he not been working.  But he has, in effect, also told us 
that he would only have wanted to sell a few shares each year.  And, in any event, 
it may not have  been convenient or sensible to sell them in a rush if he was 
unable to work. So I think that its fair and reasonable not to consider the shares  
as a good source of funds to help Mr Y make his mortgage  repayments. Mr Y has 
also told us that he was entitled  to some sick pay from his employer. But, 
following a successful  claim, the policy  would  have  paid out in addition to this and 
for a longer period. This would have left any benefits due from his employment  
available to help with his other  expenses while he wasnt working. The PPI also 
included unemployment cover.  So I find that the insurance could  have been  of 
use to Mr Y;
oThe MPPI was competitively priced by reference  to other  polices available in the 
market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr Y couldnt afford  it. In any event, as it was paid for monthly, if he 
had later felt that he no longer wanted  the policy  or that the premiums were  
unaffordable, he could  have  cancelled it.
    The MPPI application form, to which Ive referred earlier, set out the premium and 
monthly benefit  payable.  I dont know  what else Halifax  told Mr Y about  the MPPI. 
So its possible Halifax didnt give him all the information that it ought to have about 
the policy so that he could make  a fully informed decision  whether to take it or not. 
But as Ive explained,  I think  Mr Y had some  need  for the cover and it was suitable  for 
him. So I think  that its unlikely that clearer information would have put him off taking 
out the MPPI. Thats because I think its likely he would have decided it provided  
valuable cover at a reasonable cost. I say this particularly bearing in mind the 
serious consequences that could have arisen  if he hadnt been  able to make his monthly 
mortgage repayments.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr Y.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr Y because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr Y about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mr Y, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr Y.
Ref: DRN61632103But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr Y any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6163210