K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains National Westminster Bank  Plc is pursuing her for a debt on a joint account  
she didnt open.  She says she was added to the account fraudulently by her ex-husband - 
Mr K. She also considers the account statute barred as she has never acknowledged the 
debt as being hers. 
background
Mrs K and her ex-husband had an account  with Abbey National. In February  2009  Mrs K and 
her ex-husband applied  for a new current account  and overdraft with NatWest. All bill 
payments including the mortgage were transferred to the new account. The account  was 
used regularly, with bill payments and cash withdrawals being made, alongside  credits  to the 
account. 
In July 2010 the last credit  was made to the account, although it continued  to be used during 
July and August  2010 for some bill payments. Following that no further debits or credits  were 
made to the account  leaving it in debit  by over £5,000. In September, October, November 
and December payments  were made  to the account  via a third-party debt adviser.  During 
that time a default notice fee was applied. 
Mrs K was contacted about this debt and a loan taken out jointly with Mr K. Mrs K disputed 
the debts. NatWest agreed to stop pursuing  Mrs K for the loan debt, as it couldnt  locate a 
copy of the signed loan agreement and it couldnt  be sure she benefitted  from it. But two 
years later, in 2018, Mrs K was contacted  again  via a collection agency,  about repaying the 
debt owed under the current account.  Mrs K again  disputed the debt and complained.
NatWest put all collection activity on hold while it investigated. And it was satisfied that Mrs K 
had been present during  the joint account being opened and so it could now ask her to 
repay the debt as she was joint and severally  liable for it under the account terms and 
conditions. So it didnt  uphold  her complaint. 
Our investigator also concluded  NatWest hadnt  done anything wrong. She pointed  out that 
two cards had been issued  for the account, one for each of Mr and Mrs K; and that they had 
been used simultaneously.  She couldnt  find any plausible reason why Mr K would use two 
cards to operate the account, and she didnt find that adding Mrs K to the account would 
have assisted with the account opening or gaining the overdraft, as she wasnt  working  at 
the time.  Overall, the investigator was satisfied Mrs K had applied  for the account  with Mr K.
Mrs K isnt happy with the outcome and appealed. In summary she said:
There has been no finding on whether or not the debt is statute barred. The account 
was defaulted  in 2009 and she considers  she cant legally be pursued for a debt 
thats been defaulted, has a CCJ or is statue  barred. 
If there  was no benefit in her being added  to the account, for the overdraft, then there 
was no benefit  in adding her at all and questions why this would have happened. 
She considers  it wholly unfair to be pursued for a debt of her ex-husbands making 
nine years after the account was opened. 
Ref: DRN61599242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
As the investigator  has explained whether or not a debt is enforceable, or is statue barred, is 
a matter for a court. However, I am required  to take the law into account  when reaching  a 
fair and reasonable decision.  Its my understanding that if a debtor has been  contacted  and 
notified of the debt within the statue period, then the matter isnt barred. Its also my 
understanding that in England, Wales and Northern Ireland  a statute barred debt still exists  
and is recoverable [see CONC 7.15.12  Mrs K has referred to these regulatory  rules when 
making her complaint]. 
I would also add, if only for the sake of completeness, that Mrs Ks understanding  of the 
position is incorrect with regard to defaulted debts or debts that have a CCJ. In both 
situations the debt remains payable  indeed, if a debt has incurred a CCJ it means  the court 
had made  a judgement the debt is owed and needs to be repaid. 
My consideration here is whether or not NatWest is acting fairly and reasonably  in asking 
Mrs K to repay the debt. Mr K was declared bankrupt and so NatWest is no longer  able to 
pursue him for any of the amount outstanding.  But if I find that Mrs K did open  and use the 
account, then as the account was joint and several, NatWest can pursue Mrs K for any 
amounts owed. So the question I need to consider is whether Mrs K knowingly opened and 
used the account. 
NatWest has provided a copy of the application form, copies of the identification information 
used to open the accounts, and account  statements and cash  withdrawal information. Mrs K 
has said the signature on the account  application  (and subsequent repayment proposals) 
isnt hers.  As the investigator explained, we arent  handwriting experts.  Nevertheless, I have 
considered this argument carefully, but I dont find it persuasive. Thats because Mrs Ks 
signature, over the many different documents provided is different to her passport, including 
those in her letters of complaint; Im not persuaded her passport  signature  being a little 
different to the application signature is persuasive  evidence she didnt open  the account.
I have also taken into account the passport copies were certified as true copies of the 
original  a process  most, if not all, banks have to ensure they are meeting regulatory 
requirements to know their customer. Like the investigator, I would find it highly unusual  for a 
member of staff to accept  a photocopy  of a passport to meet  identification purposes. Im also 
mindful that more  than one member of staff endorsed the application process.  I find, on 
balance, it highly unlikely  that two members  of staff would have knowingly facilitated the 
opening of a joint account,  without  both parties being present. 
NatWest has provided records to show that two cards were issued for the current  account. 
And two cards were  used during the entire period the account was being actively used, 
sometimes at the same  time. Whilst it is possible Mr K used both cards,  I find the most likely 
explanation is that Mrs K had a card and used it to meet every day needs  such as 
shopping. 
In response to the investigators point about there  being no benefit in adding  Mrs K to the 
account to facilitate its opening  and obtain  and overdraft, Mrs K has emphasised  this means 
there was no benefit to her being added  to the account at all. But I disagree with this - the 
Ref: DRN61599243benefit was so she could use the account for her every day spending needs. Indeed, I note 
the previous account Mrs K held with Mr K was also a joint account and the statements 
provided during  this account opening  shows  it operated in much  the same  way as this 
account. I cant think of a plausible reason, and Mrs K hasnt provided any, as to why she 
would have gone from holding a joint account  to not. 
Overall, having considered the matter very carefully, Im persuaded its more likely  than not, 
that Mrs K did open the account  with Mr K and had the benefit of it. I follows I find it isnt 
acting unfairly or unreasonably when seeking repayment of the debt from her. I do 
understand this is going to come as a considerable disappointment to Mrs K, particular given 
the difficult circumstances she went through. But as I dont  find NatWest has done anything 
wrong, I find no basis on which to make an award against it.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6159924