K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Black Horse  Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. 
background 
Mr B entered into a HPA with Black  Horse in March 2017 to acquire a new vehicle. He says 
that within the first month the vehicle broke  down.  It then broke  down on numerous 
occasions resulting  in him having to take time and incur costs returning the vehicle for 
investigation and repair. He says he should  be refunded the costs he has suffered as a 
result of the issues (which  he calculates as over £2,000).  He doesnt want to reject the 
vehicle due to the modifications he has undertaken. 
Mr B says he wasnt been able to use the vehicle for its intended purpose due to concerns 
about whether  it will complete the journey. Since March 2018, he says he has been  able to 
use the vehicle  almost without issue although  it was returned in August 2018 when a further 
fault was rectified.  Because  of the issues Mr B wants to be paid compensation for his loss of 
enjoyment.
Black Horse  upheld Mr Bs complaint in regard to certain issues raised. It offered two 
possible resolutions, one involving  the return of the vehicle the other saying that the vehicle 
would be fixed once  a fix was available (although it noted that this could not be guaranteed 
to resolve the issues).  It also offered compensation for the loss of days, journeys to have  the 
vehicle repaired,  trouble  and upset and loss of enjoyment. Mr B didnt accept the offers and 
further discussion and offers  were made  in regard to the amounts of compensation. Black 
Horse also says it will consider any further  costs  that can be evidenced.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She noted that Mr B didnt want to reject the vehicle  
and said that Mr B should be refunded  15% of his payments due to the loss of use hed 
experienced and also be refunded costs incurred due to the issues.  She also recommended  
that Mr B be paid £250 compensation for the inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr B partially agreed to our investigators  view but didnt accept the calculation of travel 
costs. He said that although fuel costs  had been used as a basis for compensation this didnt 
take into account other costs involved in running a vehicle such  as depreciation. He also 
said that his main complaint was about  the incorrect information he had been given by the 
manufacturer and its attempts to deny the issue. He said the issues  resulted in wasted time 
and stress  which  could have been  avoided had he been provided with the correct 
information at the outset.  He said he bought  a £60,000 vehicle which was not fit for purpose 
for around  18 months.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B acquired a new vehicle under a HPA with Black Horse.  Under  the regulations Black 
Horse can be held liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As 
the vehicle was new at acquisition it is reasonable that Mr B would expect it to be free from 
faults, including minor  defects.
Ref: DRN68559792It has been accepted that there  were  issues with the vehicle and given  when the vehicle first 
broke down,  it is reasonable to accept that the faults were present at the point  of supply. In 
such cases the remedy is often for the vehicle to be rejected. This was offered  as a 
resolution by Black  Horse  but Mr B wished  to keep the vehicle and has explained he has 
spent money modifying  it.
Given Mr B wishes to keep the vehicle  it is reasonable that he is refunded the costs  involved 
in dealing with the issues. He should also be compensated for the trouble and upset he has 
been caused and the loss of enjoyment he has suffered. I understand that Mr B feels he was 
lied to about the issues with the vehicle. However this complaint  is against Black Horse  and I 
cannot hold it responsible  for the service provided by the manufacturer  when dealing with 
the issues with Mr Bs vehicle.
Mr B has set out a timeline of events  which  shows the vehicle  broke down on a number of 
occasions between  acquisition and March 2018.  Mr B has said that the vehicle has been  
usable since March  2018, although a further  repair was required in August 2018. Mr B has 
explained that although he was able to drive the vehicle up to March  2018 he was told to 
stop if the engine management  light came on. He has explained that he chose not to take 
the vehicle on certain  journeys due to concern  that the issues  would arise.
Given the above, I think the recommendation of a 15% refund of payments made  up to 
March 2018 and in August 2018 is fair. Black  Horse also accepted  our investigators 
recommendation to refund the cost of the hotel for one night;  12 return  journeys  to one repair  
centre; and 2 return journeys to another repair centre. The outstanding issue  is how the 
travel costs are calculated.
I understand that Mr B thinks the wider running  cost of travel such as depreciation should be 
reflected in the travel costs. However  I do not think that it is reasonable to ask for this. It 
would be hard to establish the exact costs in terms of wear  and tear of the journeys made 
and I think a calculation  based on mileage is fair. 
Mr B has been caused a lot of trouble and upset by the issues he has experienced. He 
should not have experienced so many problems within the first few months of having the 
vehicle. Therefore I agree that compensation  is required. Our investigator recommended  
Mr B be paid £250 because of this. Having considered the number of times Mr B 
experienced issues, I think that £500 is reasonable. This amount has been put to Black 
Horse and it agreed to this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Black Horse  Limited  should,  as it has 
agreed:
1.refund  15% of monthly payments made up to March 2018 and refund 15% of the 
monthly payment  for August 2018;
2.cover  the cost of one night hotel stay (£101.81)
3.cover  the cost of 12 return Journeys to one repair centre  calculated  as £95.52;
4.cover  the cost of 2 round  Journeys  to a second  repair centre calculated as £15.40;
5.pay £500.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Items 1, 2, 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement.
Ref: DRN68559793If Black Horse  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6855979