K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P were  unfortunately  burgled. They made a claim under  their Legal & General
Insurance Limited (L & G) policy. This was ultimately declined  so they complained  to us.
background
Mr and Mrs P were  burgled, and several  items stolen,  including  a number of precious
stones. When they claimed on their L & G policy it was realised that they were  severely
under insured, to the extent that L & G cancelled the policy  and refused the claim.
Mr and Mrs P complained to us and one of our case handlers looked into the matter.  They
did not uphold  the complaint, so Mr and Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
I issued my provisional decision on the case  as follows  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I currently dont think I can uphold the complaint either, but wanted to give some  more detail
on the issue. I would also like to apologise  to Mr and Mrs P about the time it has taken me to
review the case,  as they know it has taken our office some time to obtain the recording of the
claims conversation they had with representatives  of L & G.
It seems  reasonably clear  to me that Mr and Mrs P were severely under insured. Having
read the papers and listened  to the almost  3 hour conversation recording it doesnt seem
particularly disputed that the sum insured was inadequate. So what I must decide is why this
was, and if the consequences  of that were  clear enough to Mr and Mrs P.
Looking back at the sales process  I have the benefit of a transcript  of the sales  call. In this
Mr or Mrs P (the transcript doesnt give the gender  of the caller so I cant say which) say that
the sum assured of £75,000 for contents  is adequate, indeed they say it is plenty. They are
also asked if there  is any single item(s) worth  over £2,500, they say no. It seems  that both
statements are incorrect. The stones alone  were worth around £55,000 and of course  they
had other  contents.  Equally two of the stones were  purchased for $8,000 each, so would
have been worth over £2,500 (unless a particularly bad bargain  had been  made  when they
were purchased).
After the sales process Mr and Mrs P would have received paperwork for the policy.  The
policy itself says that if any answers when applying for the policy have been misrepresented
then L & G may cancel the policy.  In the renewal  documents for the cover it says that the
contents sum assured must represent the full replacement cost of the contents. It would
appear that both these  conditions have been  breached. On that basis  I cant ask L & G to
change their cancellation of the policy.
I have investigated  two other issues. The conversation  Mr and Mrs P had with the claims
person when they met, and the case mentioned to us with similar circumstances.
Concerning the conversation this is a long recording and has many pauses  in it, and it is
clear that the claims person was trying to get as much information  from Mr and Mrs P as
possible. But that is what I would expect, that is the nature  of claims investigation  and in my
opinion no undue pressure or unfair questions are present in the recording. I also note that
Ref: DRN64966692at the end of the conversation Mr P does agree that the summation of the issues given is
fair.
With regard to the other case we arent  bound  by previous decisions, and any published
cases may not contain every relevant detail. But I would highlight  that in the other  case it
seems to have not been apparent from the documents what  the outcome of under insurance
could be. I think  in Mr and Mrs Ps case that isnt so, the documents  clearly state that
cancellation of cover may occur.
Based on all the above I dont think I can currently ask L & G to meet this claim.
Following my provisional decision L & G havent made  any further submissions. Mr and Mrs 
P have  made a number of points. The stress this matter has caused  them,  their view that we 
havent paid enough attention to the more normal contents, and the suggestion that the 
recording here may have  been edited.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be changing my decision from that expressed in the provisional decision. 
I am very sorry  for the stress this has caused  Mr and Mrs P and can see that this must have 
been a very distressing incident from the outset, but I dont think  L & G has been 
unreasonable here. The normal  contents  would also fall under the cancelled  policy  and it 
isnt appropriate  for any part of a claim to be considered when  a policy  has been cancelled.  
After that there just isnt any cover. 
Ive considered again if the policy should be cancelled, and I still think  that isnt something I 
can ask L & G to change. The answers  given concerning the policy  cover  are clearly 
incorrect, to the extent necessary that the risk here was not what L & G were led to believe, 
that allows for them to cancel  the policy in this instance. 
Ive also considered again the recording of the conversation with the claims person. Whilst I 
am not an expert  in recordings there  are no obvious  indications that this recording has been  
edited. I note it is almost three hours  long and would wonder just how long it would have 
been if it had been edited as suggested. I also dont  think the comments  on it suggest  any 
major disagreement during the conversation, so even  if a part was edited, the overall 
suggestion is as I described in my provisional decision. 
I am not persuaded the recording was edited.  If Mr and Mrs P remain  convinced  it was I can 
only suggest they take legal advice, as the courts would  be the proper forum to test that 
issue in full. 
Ref: DRN64966693my final decision
Again, based  on the evidence I have, I make  no award against  Legal and General Insurance  
Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2020.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6496669