K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of a company I shall call D Limited,  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) alongside  a business loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2009 D Limited  took out a business  loan during a branch meeting. 
At the same time a Business Loan Repayment  Insurance policy   which  for ease I will refer 
to as PPI - was also taken  out to protect  the loan in the event the director of D Limited  
couldnt work because of accident, sickness and hospitalisation. It also protected  the loan  
it would  pay the outstanding loan balance off - in the event of the insured partys death.
The policy was a regular  premium policy and it cost around £35 a month protecting  the loan 
repayment of just over £420 a month.  For accident and sickness  it would pay out for up to 36 
months per claim.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said the available  evidence  suggested 
Lloyds made  D Limited aware the policy was optional. And there  was nothing to indicate the 
policy was unsuitable   it wasnt wrong  for Lloyds to have  recommended it.
He went on to say that while the loan was established under the Enterprise Finance Scheme 
this didnt render  the PPI unsuitable because although the Government guaranteed  75% of 
the borrowing, this protection was for the benefit of the lender  in this case Lloyds  in the 
event D Limited defaulted  on the loan. The PPI would make  payments in the event the 
director found himself unable to work because of accident, sickness or hospitalisation.
Mr H on behalf of D Limited disagrees.  In doing  so, the key complaint point raised  is that the 
paperwork does not record all discussions or advice given  D Limited  was told the PPI was 
necessary to get the loan.
The complaint therefore comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Firstly, its not disputed  that Lloyds recommended the policy. So it needed to advise with 
reasonable care and skill to ensure it was suitable  for D Limited. And it needed to provide 
enough clear and timely information about  the recommended PPI so D Limited could  decide  
whether to accept  the recommendation or not. Ive kept this in mind in deciding this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN66537132did Lloyds make it clear  PPI was optional?
This appears  to be the key complaint point that has been made, so Ive thought about this 
carefully.
Ive firstly  looked at the copy of the loan application / agreement completed and signed  by D 
Limited at the time in question. Looking at this I can see that, in Section 2 alongside  the 
amount of loan required  it asks:
Is Optional Business  Loan Repayment Insurance (BLRI)  taken?...Yes.No
And a handwritten cross  has been  placed under the Yes option. Lloyds says D Limited  
completed the application.
In addition I can see that separate paperwork about  PPI was completed and signed by D 
Limited as part of the advice and recommendation for cover  this was titled: Your  Summary  
and Recommendation  for Optional  Business Loan  Repayment Insurance.
Im mindful the sale took place during a meeting, so I accept given the environment that the 
adviser most  likely  encouraged D Limited to take out the policy  Lloyds was after all 
recommending it as being suitable  and appropriate for the company.
But I am not persuaded  given the evidence available  - that the adviser,  more  likely than 
not, went further than that and said or implied that it was a condition  of the loan. The 
paperwork, in my view,  clearly described  the cover as being Optional and equally prominent 
Yes and No options were provided  on the loan application. So it seems unlikely to me that 
the adviser would  have  described it differently from how it was set out in writing and 
undermined this; particularly given the business banking relationship between the parties. 
So overall and having carefully weighed up the evidence from both parties, I find it more  
likely than not that Lloyds described  PPI as optional and D Limited  chose to take it out 
knowing it didnt have  to have it.
did Lloyds properly advise D Limited?
And was PPI suitable?
Given the business banking relationship, I think its likely Lloyds already had some 
information about D Limited and its director to enable it to take steps  to consider whether 
PPI was suitable. And I can see from the copy of the Summary and Recommendation for 
PPI document  that the adviser appears to have asked a series of questions  during the 
meeting, including asking about  the companys existing means for repayment  of the loan 
such as additional  insurance or other  means;  questions about the nominated  persons  health 
and questions to ascertain  eligibility  for cover. 
It would therefore  seem to me that Lloyds did act fairly and reasonably  here and took 
sufficient steps to ensure the cover  was suitable. And I think  that based on the company and 
the directors circumstances PPI was suitable, so it wasnt wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended the cover.  I say this because:
Ref: DRN66537133as a director of the company, the party covered  by the policy  was eligible
as a director and therefore a key person of the company,  it was appropriate that the 
loan repayments  were protected  for example should anything happen, which meant  the 
key person wasnt able to work,  it wouldve likely  impacted the companys  efficiency  and 
effectiveness and therefore its ability to generate income to meet the loan repayments.  
Im also mindful that Lloyds says the director was a guarantor for the loan.
the party covered was in good  health,  so the significant exclusions / limitations around 
existing medical conditions didnt make the cover  unsuitable.
the cover  appears to have been affordable, so its cost wasnt inappropriate.
the policy was of the monthly renewable type, so if D Limited wanted to cease cover  it 
couldve done so at any time and without financial penalty.
I can see that an argument was original put forward that because this loan was underwritten 
by the Government  under  the Enterprise  Finance Guarantee Scheme (to the extent of 75%) 
PPI wasnt necessary.
I agree  with our adjudicator here, who I think explained things clearly. The Government 
guarantee provided some security for Lloyds as it would step in if D Limited defaulted on the 
loan agreement and all other options  for repayment had been exhausted. PPI on the other 
hand protected the regular loan repayments   an earlier intervention  by meeting the 
payments if the party insured couldnt  work  through accident, sickness  and hospitalisation. It 
would also pay off the loan in the event of the insured partys death.  So I dont think this 
scheme affected the suitability of PPI - I think PPI was suitable  in this case.
did D Limited get clear  and timely  information about PPI?
If not  to what extent  has D Limited lost out?
It appears that Lloyds  is primarily relying  on the information contained in the policy  document  
 sent after the sale was conducted - to say that D Limited had everything it needed to 
understand the cover. The paperwork from the time would suggest that D Limited  was given 
information about the cost of cover and understood the basic nature  of the cover being 
recommended  that is that it would provide assistance to the person insured in the event of 
them being  unable to work  due to accident  and sickness. But as D Limited  has said,  I think 
its reasonable that it would have relied more on what  was said during the meeting than on 
written material  provided later on. So I accept its possible  there  were  gaps in the information 
provided.
But for the reasons Ive set out above  as to why I think PPI was suitable, I dont think  it is 
more likely than not that D Limited  would have acted any differently had Lloyds done 
anything more. I think D Limited would have still taken out PPI.
Because of this, it means  I dont  think  D Limited has lost out as a result  of taking out PPI 
alongside the business loan. And so theres  nothing Lloyds needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint, so I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, for and on 
behalf of D limited to accept or reject  my decision before 13 July 2019.
Ref: DRN66537134Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6653713