K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
The policy covered Mrs H only so I have mainly considered her circumstances at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr and Mrs H aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. Theres limited information available from the time the PPI 
was sold, but this isnt surprising  considering how long ago the sale took place, and that 
businesses arent  required to keep this kind of information indefinitely. From the information 
available I dont have  enough to say Lloyds didnt present the PPI as optional, or that Mrs H 
didnt choose  to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her. 
Mrs H has told us she was self-employed when  she took the PPI. But the policy  didnt make  
it any more difficult for a self-employed person to make a claim.  And based  on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. She also seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for Mr and Mrs H if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
Mrs H off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said - including  what theyve said about the 
policy not being suitable for Mrs H as she was self-employed  and the policy  wouldnt pay 
claims where the insured had terminated  their own employment but I think this term in the 
policy would only be applied when the insured person, whether self-employed or employed  
made a choice stop working. So these points  dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Ref: DRN69602012Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6960201