K821x#15complaint
O, a limited company,  complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) 
turned down a commercial property insurance claim. O is represented by the companys 
owner. 
background
Os business premises were closed for a few days.  When the owner returned, she 
discovered a theft had taken place. The thief was able to extract stock  from the premises 
through the letter box - its thought the thief did so by using a pole with a hook on the end to 
drag the items towards the letter box, and pull them through. O made  a claim under the 
policy. 
LV turned down the claim. It said as thered been  no forcible or violent entry into the 
property, the claim wasnt payable. It also said the owner was required to set an alarm, yet 
the alarm  sensors didnt pick up the movement around the property. It therefore thought it 
was unlikely that shed set the alarm. Unhappy with this, O brought  a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought the act of opening  the 
letter box and forcing it open would be considered the use of force  and violence. Our 
investigator also thought the owner had provided sufficient evidence to show  that the alarm 
had been set. She recommended LV pay the claim.  
I issued a provisional decision on 14 May 2020. My provisional findings said:
The policy  explains that LV will pay a claim for theft involving entry  to or exit from the 
premises by forcible and violent means.
Im satisfied the act of pushing open the letter box uses force, and therefore there was 
forcible means. The issue turns on whether it was also violent.  In my view, the word violent 
would mean  an unusual level of force had been used. The mere act of opening  the letter box 
to push through an object (albeit with an unlawful  intention) does not, in my opinion, mean 
violence has been used.  Although I understand a cardboard wedge was then used  to prop 
open the letter box, I dont  think there  was a use of force over and above what would  usually 
be necessary to open the letter box. 
I therefore agree with LV that entry wasnt gained using both force and violence. However, 
as the investigator  has pointed  out, the letter  box is intended to be used for post. Its 
therefore apparent  that the thief/thieves used unnatural  means of gaining  access to the 
premises. So long as the owner took all reasonable precautions to protect  the business 
premises, I think LV ought to accept the claim on a fair and reasonable basis. 
The policy requires O to have an alarm, and to set this when the premises  are unattended.
The owner has provided pictures  from Os alarm  panel to show  it was set at 5pm the day the 
business premises were  closed, and was unlocked  a few days  later (when the owner  
returned to the premises).  Shes  also explained  that she spoke with her alarm company to 
find out why the alarm didnt go off during the theft, and was told that a combination  of body 
heat and movement  is required  for the sensor  to go off. 
Ref: DRN63662152Im satisfied the owner has provided sufficient evidence to show  that the alarm was likely set 
at the time of the theft,  and has given a reasonable  explanation why the alarm didnt go off 
during the theft. Consequently,  I intend to require  LV to accept the claim.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Os owner accepted  my provisional findings.  
LV responded to say it doesnt agree that because  the theft occurred through unnatural  
means, then this should override the policy wording. It says the fact remains  there was no 
forcible and violent entry. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision  that I thought force had been used, however I didnt 
think violence had been used, according to the usual meaning of the word. 
Nonetheless, whilst I appreciate an unusual level of force hadnt been used to open the letter  
box, it seems unfair for LV to decline the claim when the thief/thieves had gained entry 
through force of an object  outside its normal and intended use.  
Consequently, I remain of the opinion  it would be fair for LV to deal with the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  
Company Limited  to settle the claim under the remaining  policy terms and conditions.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6366215