K820x#14complaint
The representative of the late Mrs Us estate (who I will call Mr P) has complained about 
the advice Mrs U received  between 2000 and 2001 to take out an Extra Income Plan.  
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited  is responsible  for the sale of the plan and I will refer to it 
throughout this decision, even where activities were undertaken by previous life assurance 
providers.
background
The Extra  Income Plan (EIP)  was an equity release product that provided a cash lump sum 
and a regular  income for life in exchange  for which the policyholder agreed that a charge 
would be placed  on their home. In most  cases,  including Mrs Us, the policyholder received 
free buildings insurance for their home  too. No interest was payable on the amount of the 
debt during the policyholders lifetime.  Following death, interest  at 2% above the three month 
LIBOR rate was payable by the estate from the date of death to the date the amount owed 
was paid.
Mrs U first met with Phoenix in 2000 to discuss her options. At the time she lived in a one 
bedroomed leasehold retirement  flat. She wanted  to move to a larger property.  To provide 
for this move  so she wanted a capital sum. She also wanted an income to help her maintain 
her lifestyle.  She was given information and an illustration, but didnt immediately move 
forward with the plan at that time.  
In the spring of the following year she confirmed  she wasnt  going to go ahead with the 
proposed plan. However, it appears  she changed  her mind shortly  thereafter. At that point 
she had accepted an offer on her flat and had put an offer in to buy a house,  which  had been 
accepted. The EIP proposal was completed  with a view to the equity being  released from the 
new property and the charge placed  on it. 
Mrs U moved  in July 2001.  The new property cost approximately £15,000 more than the old 
one sold for. Her situation following the move  was that she had a state pension of £3,562  per 
year, £62 a month coming in from National Savings investments and around £350 a year 
interest on deposit based savings. She had almost £22,000 of savings and investments,  
£13,000 of which was invested  to provide  the £62 per month  income.
The EIP provided  Mrs U with £25,000 as a cash lump  sum and a monthly income  of 
£270.80. The charge against  the property was £81,000. £955  of the cash  advance  was 
retained until Mrs U had some necessary repairs completed. The retention was paid to her in 
September 2001.
Mrs U had the option of protecting  the equity in her property,  in that if the amount she 
received from the EIP was less than the amount of the charge, the difference would be 
refunded to her estate.  However, this option  would have lowered her income slightly. She 
decided not to take up the option and doesnt appear to have been  worried about what  she 
left for inheritance  purposes.
By the time Mrs U had moved  to her new home, she had a state pension of £3,562 a year, 
she had £13,000  of income  bonds  that gave her a further £744 each year and deposit 
account balances  of just under £9,000 which gave her £350 interest each year.  She said she 
Ref: DRN66042722didnt want to use her existing savings to provide an income and she was happy with what  
the income bonds were doing.
Mr P has said that Mrs U didnt need  the lump sum or the income  as she had sufficient 
income to live on and cash balances in case of need. He has also said that he thinks  she 
was pressured  by Phoenix into signing up for the EIP because the offer document  had to be 
signed and returned within 21 days. In addition, Mr P is concerned  because  Mrs P wasnt  
told to take independent  financial  advice.
Mrs U died in the spring  of 2008. Mr P has calculated that Mrs U received around £46,000 
from the EIP, which is approximately £40,000 less than the amount it cost to redeem  the 
lending arrangement (including  interest from the date of death). He also confirmed his 
understanding is that Mrs U used  the money for items for the house  (furnishings etc.) and 
her passion  for clothes.  He said the balance  of the cash lump  sum  around £8,000  
remained unspent.  
Mr P also says that Mrs U was a layperson and unsophisticated in financial matters and so 
the plan was mis-sold  to her. This is because  she wouldnt have understood it and didnt 
need the money. He also pointed out that Mrs U didnt tell any of her family what she was 
doing and had he known at the time he would have encouraged her not to move forward  with 
her plans.
The most recent assessment of the complaint didnt find that Phoenix had done anything  
wrong. Mr P didnt accept  those conclusions. He doesnt think  that a balanced review of the 
case had been  completed as the adjudicator didnt have all of the paperwork associated with 
the case due to our original file having  been  destroyed. He repeated his opinions  about 
Mrs Us financial  position in 2001  and the cost of the EIP to her estate. He asked  for the 
case to be passed  to an ombudsman for consideration.
Before the complaint was passed  to me for consideration, the adjudicator  confirmed to Mr P 
that the evidence we would usually request from a business and rely on when assessing  
suitability, had been included in the documentation he had provided.  As such,  the 
adjudicator confirmed his conclusions that there hadnt been a mis-sale based on Mrs Us 
needs and circumstances at the time.  
I issued my provisional decision on 24 July 2019.  In that document  I set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt of that decision.
I note Mr Ps concerns  about the assessment of this case  due to our original complaint file 
having been destroyed and Phoenix not having a file at all. However,  the information Mr P 
have provided  gives  a clear picture of what happened at the time of the sale and Mrs Us 
needs and requirements at that time.so I am satisfied I can come to a reasoned  and fair 
outcome based  on the evidence available to me.
At the time of the original contact Mrs U had with Phoenix she was in her mid-eighties and 
living in a small retirement flat. It seemed she no longer  wanted  to live in that environment  
and wanted more space in her home.  She proposed moving home and wanted  to use the 
equity in her new home to help with that move and provide  her with additional income to 
maintain her lifestyle.  
There was approximately  £15,000 difference between the selling price of Mrs Us old home 
and the purchase  price  of the new one. From the sale proceeds costs, such as estate agents 
Ref: DRN66042723fees, would  also have been  deducted. Mrs U would have had to have provided that 
additional capital  from her own resources. Given the bulk of Mrs Us money left after the 
sale/purchase (and before the equity release) was invested to provide her with an income,  it 
would seem likely that the £15-20,000  she needed  to have available  at the point she moved  
would have previously  been used in the same way. As such, buying the new property would 
have not only reduced her investments  considerably, but it would also have  reduced  the 
income they generated.
It would seem that Mrs Us documented requirements at the time of the sale (that is, to 
produce an income to enable her to maintain her lifestyle and a capital sum to help her with 
the move) would fit with her circumstances at the time. Whilst it has previously been  
assumed that the lump sum was to provide a deposit for a house move; that is clearly not 
the case. It would  seem  likely it was to provide for the costs of moving, including furnishing  a 
larger property. Mr P has confirmed that at least some  of the capital sum released from the 
EIP was used to furnish the new property.
Whilst I have considered Mr Ps opinion  about Mrs Us income  following her move it would 
appear this income  was likely lower  than she had been used to having. At that point she 
would have had a state pension plus £90 per month.  Whilst she may have been able to live 
on that amount,  it would not be considered a generous income at the time. Mrs U would 
appear to have wanted more income in order to have a more  than basic  lifestyle. She was 
entitled to use the equity  in her home to provide for this preference. I note from the financial 
position of the estate,  it would appear  Mrs U spent the additional  income. 
Mr P has raised the issue that Mrs U wasnt told to seek  independent  financial advice before 
committing to the EIP. That is true, but there was no requirement  for that to be done  either  
then or now. As long as the representative  from Phoenix explained to Mrs U that he was tied 
to a particular  investment  business, he fulfilled his obligations under the regulations at the 
time. However, I note that Phoenix  went beyond that requirement.  It required Mrs U to meet  
with a solicitor of her choice and for that solicitor to ensure she understood the plan she was 
taking  how it worked and what it cost.  Mrs U did speak to her firm of solicitors about  the 
plan and that firm signed the necessary documents to confirm she understood the EIP.
I have noted Mr Ps concerns about  the disparity  between the amount the EIP cost Mrs Us 
estate and the amount she received in capital and income. When taking  an annuity there is 
always the possibility  that the amount it pays out will be less than the amount it costs.  Mrs U 
was told this could  happen and there was an option  she could have had built into the plan to 
protect her estate from this happening.  She didnt select that option  and so it would appear 
that Mrs U was willing to take the risk of receiving  less back from the plan that she paid for it. 
Mr P has also said that Mrs U was a layperson  and unsophisticated in financial matters.  He 
has also said he believes she was pressured  into taking the plan. Given  that Mrs U started 
investigating her options  many  months  before she signed the application form and the 
subsequent offer, I find it difficult  to accept she was pressured into taking  out the plan. As for 
being unsophisticated and a layperson in financial matters, that may be the case, but the 
indication is that she looked into how to achieve  her goals, considered  her position and 
made an informed choice. 
As for Mrs U not telling  any of her relatives  what she was doing; she didnt have  to and 
Phoenix would have been prevented from doing so under data protection regulations. 
Indeed, given Mr Ps comments about how he would have tried to persuade  her not to take 
Ref: DRN66042724out the EIP, if Mrs U was determined to go ahead with her plans that may well be why she 
didnt tell her family. 
Overall, I am satisfied there was a need for the benefits the EIP gave Mrs U and I have seen 
no evidence it was mis-sold. Whilst I can understand her relatives disappointment in 
receiving less from her estate than they anticipated, the equity  in Mrs Us home was hers to 
do with as she wished.  It seems she planned  what she was doing carefully and doesnt 
appear to have been concerned about  the effect it would have on her estate, rather  she was 
focussed on her own comfort and enjoyment of life.
Phoenix confirmed  it had no further  comment  to make in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Mr P didnt accept my provisional  decision. He reiterated his previous comments  about his 
understanding of Mrs Us circumstances and conclusions about the sale of the plan. He said 
he didnt believe that my provisional decision  was equitable. In addition, Mr P does not 
appear to be happy with my comment that Mrs U may not have told her family about  her 
plans as Mr P might  have  tried to dissuade her from doing what she wanted. He also said 
that the motive  for the complaint was not to do with the value of the estate as neither he nor 
the other beneficiaries needed the money.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset, including Mr Ps 
recent comments, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I am sorry  Mr P is unhappy with my comment regarding why Mrs U didnt discuss  her plans 
with her family. No offence was meant.  It was simply an observation made based on Mr Ps 
comments about what action he would have taken had he known about Mrs Us plans.  It 
wouldnt be unusual for someone determined to do something not to want to be dissuaded 
from their chosen course of action.
Mr P has reiterated his understanding of Mrs Us circumstances  at the time of the sale of the 
plan and his views about the sale. I had considered  this evidence alongside the 
documentary evidence  he provided  before reaching my provisional decision. Having 
reviewed all of the evidence again, and I know this will come  as a disappointment  to Mr P, 
but his further  iteration of those comments hasnt changed my conclusions.  I remain 
persuade that Mrs U knew what she was doing when she took out the plan. Nor can I find, 
given her circumstances and actions at the time, that the plan was unsuitable for her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision on behalf of 
Mrs Us estate before 22 September 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6604272