K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Automec Vehicle Management Ltd (AVM) dealt with the repairs  to 
his car following a non-fault road traffic  accident.
background
In November 2018, while parked unattended overnight, Mr As car was hit by another vehicle 
and suffered damage. Mr A initially  contacted  his insurance company but there  were  delays 
in getting him a hire car. So he instructed AVM, an accident management company (AMC),  
to deal with the repairs  to his car and to provide him with a hire car.
Mr A instructed AVM on 24 November 2018 and the insurer paid AVM the costs  of the 
repairs to Mr As car, less his policy excess. AVM contacted the insurer  on 24 January 2019, 
saying the repair costs could increase. They also asked Mr A needed to return the hire car to 
them at this point.
The insurer  sent an engineer to inspect  the car and, on 4 February 2019, the engineer  said 
Mr As car was uneconomical  to repair. AVM  didnt agree  and said they could  repair the car. 
But they didnt  send a fully costed  repair estimate to the insurer  until 25 February  2019.  The 
insurer authorised  the repairs  the next day.
Mr A received his car back from the repairers  on 26 April 2019, but he wasnt happy with the 
repairs thatd been done. On 1 May 2019 he had his car inspected by a main  dealer, who 
said there were issues with the repairs. The car went back  in for repair on 16 May 2019 and 
Mr A collected it on 7 June 2019. He said he then took it back  to the main dealer who said 
the necessary  repairs hadnt been completed.
As part of our investigation, Mr A was asked to provide a report from the main  dealer about 
whether the repairs  the engineer said were necessary in the report of 4 February 2019 had 
been done. And, in August 2020, the main dealer said there  was nothing wrong with his car.
Mr A complained about the delay in his car being  repaired, and that AVM  took the hire car 
back before  the repairs were completed. This left him without any transport. He also initially  
complained that the damage  to his car hasnt been  satisfactorily repaired. But, following the 
August 2020 inspection  by the main  dealer,  he withdrew this part of his complaint.
Our investigator said that, despite having a regulatory obligation to do so, AVM hadnt co-
operated with the investigation and hadnt  provided any of the evidence  requested.  So he 
came to his view based on the evidence provided  by Mr A.
The investigator found AVM couldve  done  better. He felt theyd delayed in sending the fully 
costed repair  estimate  to the insurer, which  delayed when  the repairs  could start. He also 
said AVM hadnt kept Mr A updated  and didnt respond to all of his contacts.  Because  of the 
delays the investigator  initially  said AVM should  pay Mr A £300.
In the absence of any post repair inspections from a qualified engineer,  the investigator 
initially accepted  the main  dealers  reports as showing the repairs hadnt been completed 
properly. And because AVM had already had the opportunity  to complete the repairs 
correctly, he said it was reasonable that Mr A now has the repairs completed by the main 
dealer, and AVM cover these costs.
Ref: DRN66254312Because Mr A was without a hire car from the end of January to the start of June 2019, the 
investigator also said AVM should  cover Mr As transport costs for this period, and the costs  
of the main dealers inspections. Mr A agreed  with the investigator,  but AVM didnt respond. 
But, given the outcome  of the main  dealers inspection in August 2020,  the investigator  
reissued his view.  He no longer thought AVM were responsible for any repair costs. And 
because the car had been repaired to a satisfactory standard,  the investigator only 
considered there were  three months worth of delays.  So he recommended  AVM pay Mr A 
£100 for the inconvenience caused by these delays. He also said AVM should  pay Mr A the 
cost of the diagnostic report  hed had done  (£114.00), the cost of a car hed had to hire for 
three days (£133.52) and his taxi costs (£13.63)  a total of £261.15.
AVM didnt  agree with the investigator.  They  said Mr A hadnt complied with requests from 
the solicitors whod been instructed, which may affect whether theyre able to recover  all 
their costs. Which stand at £10,288.67. And, under the agreement  Mr A signed with them, 
hes liable for any shortfall. Theyve  also said that Mr A caused £4,374.07  damage  to the hire 
car because  of his negligent driving. 
Because of this AVM  dont think  they should be paying Mr A anything, and the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused  my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected  what I think is the right outcome.
The facts,  as detailed  above, are supported by the evidence Ive seen. And they arent 
disputed by either party. So Ill take these  to be a true reflection of what happened.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Mr A is complaining  about  took 
place before this change  in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman  wouldve taken. 
AMCs usually become involved when a non-fault accident takes place. In these instances 
theyll arrange for a hire car and repairs on a credit basis  theyll cover the upfront cost of 
these and claim it back from the third-party  insurance company (TPI). The advantage  of 
using an AMC is that the claimant doesnt have  to pay their policy  excess, and their no-
claims bonus is unaffected. 
But from what Ive seen  Mr A had to pay his policy  excess, and AVM  didnt  arrange  for the 
repairs to his car until theyd received payment from the TPI. This isnt the service Id expect, 
and it resulted in delays  in the process. Ive also seen that his insurer  wanted  to write off Mr 
As car as uneconomical to repair, and Mr A was happy to accept this outcome. But AVM 
insisted the car was repairable. In doing  so, Id expect the car to be repaired to a good  
standard, with all of the accident  damage  being dealt with. 
Ref: DRN66254313But this wasnt the case. The car wasnt initially satisfactorily repaired,  and Mr A had to get a 
diagnostic report from a main dealer before  AVM would rectify this. As Id expect an AMC to 
have the car checked when first faced  with a complaint  that the repairs hadnt  been 
completed, I dont think AVM acted reasonably by not doing this. So Id expect them to cover 
the costs of this report.
Mr A was clearly inconvenienced by AVMs  actions.  Their delays, coupled with them  
requiring the hire car to be returned  in January 2019, left Mr A with an extended period 
where he was either without a car, or had a car that wasnt satisfactorily  repaired.  
In saying Mr A damaged  the hire car, AVM have hinted why they asked for this back. But, 
because they chose not to co-operate with out investigation, I cant say that AVM had a valid 
reason for recovering the hire car and not providing  Mr A with alternative transport. So I think  
its fair they reimburse  Mr A for his additional transport costs resulting from their actions.
AVM have  said that Mr A hasnt co-operated with their solicitors,  so they may not be able to 
recover all of their costs  from the TPI. And Mr A is therefore liable for any shortfall.  Because 
AVM failed  to provide a copy of the agreement Mr A signed, I cant  say what, if anything,  he 
may be liable  for. Or what his obligations  are when assisting their recovery of costs. 
But I dont think this is relevant to the complaint in hand, which is about the service they 
provided and not about Mr As actions. In addition to the direct costs Mr As incurred 
because of their service, AVM caused delays to the repairs  process. So I agree that AVM  
should compensate  him for the frustration and inconvenience hes suffered. 
The £100  recommended by the investigator for this is in line with what the Legal 
Ombudsman wouldve  recommended. And Ive not seen  any compelling evidence  from 
either party that convinces  me this amount should be changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr As complaint. Automec Vehicle Management 
Ltd must:
Pay Mr A £261.15  to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report  and his 
transport costs  incurred due to the failing in their service.
Pay Mr A an additional  £100 to compensate him for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused by their delays  in the repairs process.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6625431