K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) mis sold him a credit facility  and 
is unhappy with their collections activities, the impact this has had on his credit record  and 
the way his requests for information have been dealt with.
background 
When Mr J opened this account with PayPal in 2006  he was under 18 which  PayPal say is in 
breach of their User Agreement (UA). In October 2018 PayPal closed his accounts   which  
included at that point a credit account  opened in 2017. Mr J brought his complaint to us as 
he was unhappy  with the response hed received form PayPal to his concerns.
In their Final  Response Letter (FRL) to his complaint  on 31 January  2019 PayPal told Mr J 
they wouldnt take the action hed requested. They told him theyd responded to his data 
request from 30 October 2018 on 23 November 2018 - within  the 30 day timeframe - and the 
information was resent  on 12 December 2018.  They told him the account had been 
permanently restricted as he was in breach of the UA as he was under 18 when hed created 
his PayPal account. They told him as PayPal was a user initiated system  it was for 
customers to make  themselves aware of the UA before  creating an account. And PayPal 
referred Mr J to the relevant section of their UA which gave them  authority to suspend,  block, 
limit, close  or cancel his account. They told him the outstanding balance  remained and that 
they held him liable for it. They also warned him that failure to pay this balance may result in 
the debt being referred  to an external debt collections agency  and may result in a negative 
impact on his credit rating.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Js complaint. She thought at the point of his credit  
application in 2017 PayPal were  satisfied Mr J was a good customer and a good credit  risk 
as they lent him money. But as PayPal had now closed  Mr Js account he no longer has 
access to the credit  account which he was approved for. So she thought it wasnt fair to now 
punish Mr J for something which happened over 12 years ago namely entering into the UA 
under 18 years of age. So thought  it reasonable that PayPal either continue to provide the 
old account or set up a new one on Mr Js behalf, transferring over his account details and 
credit facility as part of the process.  She said this would allow  Mr J to continue  being a 
customer of PayPal - who had shown theyre  happy to continue  the relationship as theyve 
offered him the option of a new account.
In respect of Mr Js concerns that the credit agreement wasnt  enforceable as the copy  he 
was sent under his SAR wasnt signed,  she didnt agree or think  it reasonable to ask PayPal 
to refund all charges and debit interest applied since the account was opened as Mr J had 
asked. The investigator  thought Mr J has benefitted from having the credit  facility so it was 
fair that he should  pay back  the money he owed PayPal although she appreciated Mr J 
would be cautious  of continuing a credit agreement with PayPal. She also found  it 
reasonable for PayPal to continue collections activity as the debt isnt being disputed. And 
she advised Mr J that if he felt PayPal had breached the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  he 
had the option of taking  them  to court.
PayPal agreed with the investigators recommendation  to unblock Mr Js account and access 
to the credit  facility on the basis that he gave  them  a written submission that he agreed to 
the terms of their UA. PayPal said they asked for this as Mr J was under the age of 18 when 
he originally agreed to their UA. Mr J didnt agree to this. He told us hed take up he 
unaddressed issues  he had with the CCA  agreement separately with the FCA. He said he 
Ref: DRN6344136didnt require the PayPal account  or continued  use of the credit  facility and was within his 
rights not to accept any new agreement. He also questioned that if the resolution  was a 
simple as accepting  new terms  and conditions why PayPal hadnt offered  this at the time of 
the original complaint. He also asked for the account  to be remediated to its position  at 
closure, crystallized with no further charges and interest and a repayment plan arranged  
although he was able - with assistance from his family - to make a proposal  for settlement of 
the account now.
Mr J told us he remained of the view that documentation hadnt  been provided to him within  
the suitable GDPR period.  He also raised concerns that PayPal had inadequate  Know  Your 
Client (KYC) controls. He referred to information  hes seen on forums  where  he was aware 
of other  account holders whod had their accounts closed for similar failings. And he thought  
it wasnt fair that knowing of these  failings PayPal had still benefitted from transactional fees 
and charges on accounts. Mr J also told us he thought it wasnt responsible lending for 
PayPal to open his account if he wasnt complaint  with their UA or to now offer a new 
account when  his personal circumstances  were unknown. He also thought that following his 
treatment by PayPal  he now fell under the FCAs definition of a vulnerable customer.
Following the referral for an ombudsmans decision Mr J and PayPal confirmed theyd 
reached an agreement  enabling the closure  of this account. I understand the account is now 
closed. Mr J has separate concerns about how this closure has been recorded and impacted 
on his credit record. These concerns are being dealt with as a separate  complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mr J feels  our 
investigator hasnt properly addressed his points and findings in respect of his complaint. Ive 
looked at everything  afresh before reaching an independent view on the matters  raised in Mr 
Js original complaint. I can see hes raised further concerns about how the credit facility on 
his PayPal account was settled. Those concerns are being dealt with as a separate 
complaint so I cant comment on them here.
Its the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where appropriate.  So although Mr J has raised concerns about other 
account holders  who he believes have had accounts  closed in similar circumstances  and his 
concern the PayPal were aware of KYC issues but still allowed customers to open accounts, 
Im unable to look at this. Im dealing with just Mr Js individual complaint here.
Its clear that Mr J has strong feelings about  the matter. Hes provided detailed submissions 
in support of his view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their entirety. However,  
I trust that Mr J will not take the fact that my findings  focus  on what  I consider to be the 
central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised, but to set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them.
account closure
It seems  to me that genuine  mistakes  by both parties are the root cause of the problems 
here. Mr J was permitted to open a PayPal account  back in 2006 when he was under the 
age of 18 as hed inputted  an incorrect date of birth which allowed him to register for it. 
PayPal didnt realise this until they received Mr Js identification when completing a 
Ref: DRN6344136mandatory compliance check in 2018.  But given this, it does seem  to me somewhat heavy 
handed for PayPal  to close  the account  after it had been open  for 12 years  and conducted  
satisfactorily enough to warrant  PayPal approving the associated credit facility  in 2017. So I 
can understand Mr Js frustration here and take his point  that PayPal shouldve  picked up 
the incorrect date of birth when he made  the application for credit in 2017  and they had 
access to his credit file.
But it isnt my role to punish  businesses for making mistakes; its my role to put consumers 
back into the position that they shouldve been in if the mistakes  hadnt been made. And 
here that would be for Mr J to have the account reinstated (or a new one opened using the 
same email  and bank account) and to continue  using the credit facility  without  having  to pay 
off the balance in full. I understand its important for Mr J to know  my findings on this point, 
but as I understand it, hes now reached  agreement  with PayPal resulting in the closure of 
the account so my they are largely academic.
None of the mistakes  or actions by PayPal  justifies writing  off the interest  legally due under 
the terms and conditions of the credit agreement. The interest  wouldve been  due for 
payment anyway. And, for the same reasons as the investigator has explained in her view I 
cant agree  that the credit  facility was mis sold in 2017. 
credit agreement
Theres very little I can add to what the investigator  has already told Mr J in this regard. Hes 
had the benefit of funds  under the credit agreement  so its fair and reasonable that he repays 
this. And I think thats reflected in my understanding that Mr Js now reached agreement  with 
PayPal and has paid them  an amount  resulting in the closure  of the account.
collections activity
As the investigators  explained in the context of the CCA and collections activity  a disputed 
debt applies when  a consumer asserts that they never took the credit in the first place. And 
thats clearly not the case here.  Mr J wanted  the credit.
request for information
Whilst its clear  theres a disagreement between the parties as to whether the documents Mr 
J requested on 29 October  2018  were provided within the required time limits,  Im afraid its 
for the Information  Commissioners  Office (ICO)  to decide if theres been a breach of the 
GDPR which means I cant make  a finding on that point. So Mr Js concerns in this respect 
are better directed to the ICO.
In respect of the concerns  Mr J raised  after the investigators view Im afraid I dont agree. I 
cant see hes disclosed to us any personal circumstances making him especially susceptible 
to detriment. So Im not persuaded  that hes a vulnerable customer.  Nor do I consider the 
actions of PayPal  here to fall beyond the actions expected of a responsible lender. And in 
respect of treating  customers  fairly,  again I can only comment on Mr Js case  and I think the 
recommendation for PayPal to either reopen  the account or create  a new one with the same 
email and bank  account   although  now academic  to be a reasonable response and I dont 
require them to do anything further.
Ref: DRN6344136Given how strongly Mr J feels about what happened he may want  to pursue the outstanding 
matters further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying  to 
resolve his dispute  with PayPal informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr J.
my final decision
My final decision is that, if this account  remains open,  PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA 
should continue  to provide the old account  or set up a new account on Mr Js behalf, 
transferring over his account details and PayPal  Credit as part of the process.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6344136