K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank plc didnt pursue a Section 75 Consumer Credit  Act (CCA) 
1974 request  for him with regard to a sofa he bought on his credit  card.  He would like a full 
refund for the sofa (£2,799) and financial compensation to cover  any liabilities arising as a 
result. And compensation for loss of rental  income  whilst the matter  was ongoing.
background
Mr K says he bought  a sofa using his Lloyds Bank  plc (Lloyds  Bank) credit card on 24 
November 2018  at a total cost of £2,799.  Unfortunately he says when the sofa was 
delivered he was advised it wouldnt fit into his apartment due to its size.
He says he was told when he bought the sofa it would  fit through  a standard UK door as the 
sofa could be dismantled into two parts. He rejected  the sofa on delivery.
He says he then discovered the quality of the sofa had been misrepresented to him. He says 
he was told the sofa would  withstand 100,000 rubs. But says he discovered it would only 
withstand 20,000 rubs.
He says he made what he felt was a reasonable offer to the merchant  he asked for a 
refund of the cost of the sofa less the delivery charge. But the merchant  wouldnt agree  to 
that. Mr K says the merchant offered to re-deliver  the sofa dismantling and reassembling  it 
for him. Mr K wasnt happy with this as it didnt address the quality issue.
The merchant also offered a credit  note but Mr K wasnt happy with this either  as he didnt 
feel he would be able to use it to get the quality and kind of sofa he wanted.
He said the merchant threatened to charge him £50 a week  to store his sofa whilst his 
complaint was being resolved. 
He says Lloyds  Bank  looked at his request for a Section 75 claim but didnt uphold  it. It didnt  
feel the sofa not fitting into his apartment  was grounds for mis-selling as it was the 
consumers not the merchants responsibility  to ensure that goods would fit.  And that it 
couldnt consider  the issue of the sofas quality since Mr K no longer had the sofa so it 
couldnt be inspected. Also the merchant had offered  suitable  options to resolve the problem 
in either  offering to re deliver the sofa or give Mr K a credit note. 
Mr K said Lloyds Bank did give £75 compensation for poor service whilst his complaint was 
being considered. 
Mr K said the situation had moved on since he first complained to us. He has now agreed to 
have a sofa of a similar price and quality. And as a gesture of goodwill  the retailer has made 
a £200 cashback payment. But he still feels Lloyds Bank should compensate him for not 
agreeing to his Section 75 claim.
Lloyds Bank  said it considered both a Chargeback Request and a Section 75 claim on Mr 
Ks behalf. But didnt think there were grounds  for either. The merchant vigorously denied 
any misrepresentation. Lloyds found  the terms and conditions made  it clear  that it was the 
consumers responsibility  to ensure items  bought were of a suitable  size for delivery. And the 
merchant had offered  suitable options  to resolve  the problem.
Ref: DRN67392732Our investigator upheld  part of Mr Ks complaint. He didnt find any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation around the delivery  of the sofa.  The issue seemed to be the layout of the 
building not the size of Mr Ks door. And he noted  the merchant did offer to redeliver the sofa 
with a specialist  team who would be able to dissemble and reassemble it.
However in terms of the quality of the sofa he found,  as the merchant had taken  corrective  
action, that  indicated that misrepresentation had occured. He said he relied on Mr Ks 
testimony. And he felt Lloyds Bank  could have done more to investigate the complaint of the 
quality of the sofa. He felt if Lloyds Bank hadnt  acted so quickly  in dismissing the quality 
issue it could have  resolved  Mr Ks complaint  sooner.  He recommended Lloyds paid £100 to 
compensate for this.
Lloyds Bank  didnt accept that any compensation was appropriate. In response to our 
investigator saying  he relied on Mr Ks testimony  Lloyds Bank said it had provided  copies  of 
correspondence between  the merchant and Mr K which showed the merchant  rejected  Mr 
Ks allegations about the quality of the sofa.  It also disputed  that it quickly dismissed the 
quality issue.
Mr K didnt make any comments on our investigators view.  It appears  he didnt receive this 
first view.
However as Lloyds Bank hadnt accepted our investigators view  our  investigator considered  
the points made by Lloyds Bank  and as a result  changed his view.  
He noted that the correspondence  Lloyds Bank referred to showed that the merchant 
rejected Mr Ks testimony  about the durability of the sofa. The merchant referred  to the fact 
Mr K bought an ex display  model covered in one of its hardest wearing fabrics.  He felt this 
contradicted Mr Ks comments about discussing the number of rubs.
As he no longer  upheld  the complaint he didnt feel that any compensation payment was 
appropriate. He noted that the merchant and Mr K had reached  an agreement. And he felt 
that Lloyds Bank had acted fairly  when  considering  Mr Ks Sections 75 claim. 
Mr K didnt accept this second view and made  a number of points  in response.  
Firstly Mr K said the sofa had been  misrepresented to him as he was told the sofa was the 
equivalent of 100,000 rubs which it wasnt. This was witnessed by his partner who was 
present at the sale. He said that the merchant gave no evidence  to support its claim there 
was no misrepresentation. And Mr K said he had given evidence  from other  customers  
complaining of this merchants misrepresentations.
He also disputed the point that an independent report would be needed to assess  the quality 
of the sofa. He said any such report  would  only confirm the quality of the sofa not how it was 
represented to Mr K when  he bought it.
Secondly he said the merchant said the sofa would fit through  his door but on delivery  it 
wouldnt. So he did feel this was misrepresented to him, and this was also witnessed  by his 
partner.
Ref: DRN67392733Thirdly he said that under a Section 75 claim he was entitled to a refund for 
misrepresentation. When he first complained to Lloyds Bank  his dispute had not been 
resolved. He felt the fact a resolution  was reached after four months was irrelevant.  He  felt 
Lloyds Bank  should  have  to compensate him for not making a right decision about  his 
Section 75 claim at the time.
He says Lloyds  Banks  refusal to refund his money  led to him having to accept a much lower 
quality sofa. 
Finally he referred to an example situation on our website  where  a case  was upheld  on the 
basis of handwritten notes  by a consumer from a telephone call. He contrasted that with 
witness evidence and other consumer evidence he had provided
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K feels  strongly about this and I do understand why. I appreciate it must be difficult for 
consumers when we reach a view on their complaint  but, when further information is 
submitted, as was the case here that view changes.
I am aware  Mr K has made a service  complaint. So I should make  it clear that is being dealt 
with separately and therefore will not be covered in this view.
I also need to make Mr K aware that in this decision I can only consider his complaint 
against Lloyds  Bank.  Mr K has made  reference to another case  to this service  he has seen  
details of.  I dont know  the case Mr K refers to. The decision on that case would have been 
made on all the information  available at the time. This is what  I will be doing here. We look at 
cases individually and I am not bound  by other decisions by my colleagues.
I am aware  that Mr K only recently  got the first view our investigator  issued. And 
understandably he wanted  to know what information Lloyds Bank had given our investigator 
that made him change his view. The information  was the chain of email correspondence  
between the merchant and Mr K. This wasnt new information, it had previously been 
provided by both Lloyds Bank and Mr K.  Ive seen this information  and everything else 
provided to our investigator by both Mr K and Lloyds Bank.
I think there are three issues  for me to consider here  the fact the sofa couldnt be 
delivered, the quality  of the sofa and if Lloyds Bank were  reasonable  not to process  Mr Ks 
Section 75 claim
I can see from the information that Lloyds Bank  has given us that it considered  both a 
Chargeback claim and a Section 75 claim on Mr Ks behalf. These are different schemes 
and I think it might be helpful if I explain what they are.
The Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary one. Banks have the discretion to put a claim 
forward or not. If they do put a claim  forward  its expected they have sufficient  information  to 
believe the claim might be successful  but even then it doesnt  mean  that a claim would be 
successful.
Ref: DRN67392734In this case Lloyds  Bank  has referred us to the contact between  Mr K and the merchant. Ive 
seen that correspondence. In it the merchant denies any misrepresentation of both the issue  
around the size of the sofa and the ability of the sofa to be delivered and the quality. And the 
merchant had offered  two solutions to the problem  a credit  note to the value  of the sofa or 
re delivery  of the sofa
I think Lloyds Bank  had sufficient information from that correspondence to reasonably  
conclude that a Chargeback claim would be vigorously defended  by the merchant and so 
would be unlikely to be successful. So under the terms of the scheme  Lloyds Bank was 
within its rights not to pursue this any further.  
With a section 75 claim under the CCA Act 1974 certain criteria have to be met  such  as the 
cost of the purchase, the time the claim is put in and the relationship between the parties. 
There is no issue with any of these  in this case.
However there needs to be a breach of contract or misrepresentation for the claim to be 
successful. Lloyds Bank concluded  there was neither.  It didnt feel that the sofa not fitting  
into the property  was the merchants responsibility.  And as Mr K no longer had the sofa it 
didnt feel it could assess the quality issue.
Looking at the issue of the size of the sofa and the fact the delivery team  concluded they 
wouldnt be able to get the sofa into Mr Ks apartment. I appreciate  Mr K says he was 
advised that the sofa would fit through any standard door .And that his partner witnessed this 
comment. Its very difficult when reference  is made  to a conversation that wasnt  
documented.
But Ive seen the terms and conditions on the order form.  These  make  it clear that its the 
consumers responsibility  to check all access points including external and internal doors to 
allow the furniture  to be delivered.  So even  if Mr K was assured that the sofa would fit 
through a standard  door I feel it was Mr Ks responsibility to ensure there wouldnt be any 
problems with access to the building.
Also as I understand  it the sofa could be dismantled. Mr K has referred us to the order  form 
which has a hand  drawn diagram showing how the sofa could be dismantled. And the 
merchant offered to redeliver the sofa,  to dismantle and reassemble it. 
So it seems  to me the issue  was more a problem  with the delivery team  on the day not 
feeling confident the sofa would fit rather than one of misrepresentation at the point of sale.
But ultimately whatever  comments were  made  on the day of purchase think  it was Mr Ks 
responsibility to check  if there  would  be any access  issues.  I dont feel I have any evidence 
to say with regard to  the delivery issues that the sofa was misrepresented.  So I dont feel 
Lloyds Bank  were wrong to decide  there wasnt  a valid Section 75 claim in this regard.
In terms of the quality  of the sofa again  I only have Mr Ks recollections, supported  by his 
partner as to what  he was told about the quality of the sofa.  He has referred to the number of 
rubs believing he was buying a sofa with 100,000 rubs not one with 20,000  which is what  he 
believed he was getting. 
I think as Mr K wanted the sofa for rental  property  durability would have been a consideration 
for him. I agree with Mr Ks point that an independent inspection  wouldnt support what  he was 
told or not at the point of sale.  Although it would have confirmed the rub count. 
Ref: DRN67392735The merchants response says Mr K was told that the ex display  model he bought  was 
covered in one of its hardest wearing  fabrics and was extremely  durable. The merchant  
doesnt make any reference  to the rub count   but thats not to say that wasnt  specifically 
mentioned. But an independent inspection would have  been useful in assessing the 
durability of the covering. So as I think it might have  given  some valid information  I dont 
think Lloyds were wrong to consider it.
I dont feel on the basis of the information  I have that there is sufficient evidence for me to 
conclude that there  was any misrepresentation about the quality of the sofa that would lead 
me to believe that Lloyds  Bank should have upheld the Section 75 claim on this basis..
I think what is important is that Mr K has come to an agreement   which  I assume he is 
happy with  with the merchant. He has got a different sofa and the merchant has given him 
£200 cashback as a gesture of goodwill.  
Lloyds has paid Mr K £75 for not giving him clear information which  I think  is reasonable in 
the circumstances as the customer  notes do refer to Mr K not being clear  about the Section 
75 claim. But as I dont feel Lloyds did anything wrong in its actions with either the 
Chargeback request or Section 75 claim I dont feel I can reasonably ask it to compensate  
Mr K further in relation to that.
Mr K has made some other points around potential or actual financial losses.  He has said 
that he wanted rental or any other financial liabilities  refunded  at one point  he has 
evidenced that the merchant suggested it would charge him £50 a week storage for his sofa. 
Mr K hasnt given us any evidence this actually happened. I dont believe it did.
He referred to loss of rental income.  But again  he hasnt evidenced any actual loss to us. 
And in the email  correspondence between himself  and the merchant there  is reference  to 
refurbishing his apartment from which I assume  the apartment wasnt  ready  to rent out. 
Finally Mr K has said that as a result of Lloyds  Bank  not refunding  the cost of the sofa he 
had to accept  a lower  quality sofa.  Im not sure why that would be. And Mr K hasnt  given us 
any evidence to show that was the case.  
But as I havent  found Lloyds Bank has done anything wrong I dont feel compensation for 
any such losses, had they been  evidenced, would be reasonable..
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6739273