K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC failed  to remove  a charge it held over their 
property. 
background
In January 1983, Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Lloyds, which was secured against  
their property. The mortgage was repaid in 2002. But in 2018, Mr and Mrs A discovered that 
the Land Registry  still showed Lloyds had a charge registered on their property. The charge 
should have been removed when  the mortgage was repaid in 2002.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Lloyds,  which upheld their complaint.  Lloyds  arranged  to have 
its charge removed with the Land  Registry.  Lloyds also apologised for the service Mr and 
Mrs A received, noted Mr A had spoken to its representatives on several  occasions.  Lloyds 
offered £400 to cover the cost of telephone calls to the bank and the inconvenience  caused. 
Lloyds also offered to review any costs charged  by Mr and Mrs As solicitor for sorting the 
problem. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr and Mrs A referred  their complaint to our service. They felt 
Lloyds didnt appreciate the historical significant of their actions. Mr and Mrs A said they 
would have been unable to release equity from their property had they wanted to do so. 
thought their credit files had likely been impacted. Mr and Mrs A also wanted to know  how 
long the charge would  have stayed on their property had they not alerted  to the problem and 
what systems  the bank  had in place to prevent this problem reoccurring for others.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr and Mrs As complaint. She explained  that Lloyds had 
started the process  of removing the charge but something had gone wrong. It would have 
removed the charge  only once it had been  alerted to the problem. Our investigator 
acknowledged the potential consequences of the charge not being removed sooner if, for 
example, Mr and Mrs A had applied  for further  lending secured against their property. But 
she explained that this service cant  consider hypothetical scenarios.
Our investigator said that whilst she hadnt  seen copies of Mr and Mrs As credit files, these 
were unlikely to have been impacted by the registered charge. She thought Lloyds offer of 
£400 compensation fairly reflected the inconvenience  Mr and Mrs A had been put to, bearing 
in mind the phone  calls they had to make to the bank to get the problem resolved.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree. They said they dont think it should  be up to consumers to advise 
the bank of a problem,  and the bank should have checks  and systems  in place to prevent 
problems like this. They thought £400 wasnt enough compensation for having  had an 
incorrect charge on their property for 17 years. They provided their solicitors invoice for 
£640 for fees incurred in sorting out the problem with the Land Registry.
Our investigator explained it is not for this service to tell Lloyds  what  processes it should 
have in place  and reiterated  her view that £400 compensation fairly reflected the 
inconvenience caused. She spoke  to Lloyds, who agreed to pay the solicitors costs of £640. 
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  needed  to do anything more to put things right. As 
Mr and Mrs A still disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint, it was referred to 
me for a review and a decision. 
Ref: DRN62638292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where something has gone  wrong for a consumer who brings a complaint to our service, our 
role is to review whether  anything went wrong and, if it did, to decide  what  should  happen  to 
put things right. Our role is not to punish businesses or tell them what  processes to put in 
place. Lloyds admitted  it made an error,  so I dont need to decide whether something  went 
wrong or why. The question here is whether Lloyds needs to do anything more  than its 
already offered to put things right.
Lloyds offered to pay Mr As solicitors costs of £640. Its also offered  £400 compensation to 
cover the cost of Mr As four calls to Lloyds and the inconvenience  caused  by its error. So 
Lloyds has ensured  Mr and Mrs A are not financially worse off as a result  of its error. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A could have  experienced problems  if theyd  applied  for lending on 
their property before now and dont think Lloyds realise the historical significance  of its error 
Mr and Mrs A havent provided evidence  to show their credit  files were affected  by the 
charge registered  on their property after it should have been removed. Ive also not seen  
evidence of any other financial loss caused  as a result of Lloyds error. And as our 
investigator explained, I cant consider hypothetical  situations. 
Mr A had to contact Lloyds several  times to sort the problem out, as well as having to 
contact his solicitor. But once it was made aware of the problem, Lloyds took steps to fix the 
problem promptly and offered to cover the costs  Mr and Mrs A incurred. Having considered 
the impact on Mr and Mrs A, I agree with our investigator that £400 fairly reflects the trouble 
and upset caused as a result of Lloyds error. 
In summary,  I think Lloyds offer to pay Mr and Mrs As solicitors costs of £640 and pay 
Mr and Mrs A £400 compensation is fair. 
my final decision
I realise my decision is likely to disappoint Mr and Mrs A, but I dont uphold their complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6263829