K820x#14complaint
Mr P complained about 76 debit transactions, totalling around £1,500, which  took place on 
his HSBC UK Bank Plc debit card between November 2017  and March  2018. Mr P said he 
didnt authorise  them.  He wants HSBC to refund them and pay him £115,000 compensation.
background
In May 2018, Mr P rang HSBC and said that he was disputing 76 withdrawals from his 
account. HSBC  raised a complaint, but said it would have to cancel Mr Ps debit card before 
it could raise a fraud investigation. Mr P said he needed access to his money, and this would 
put him in a difficult  position. HSBC issued  a final response on 29 May, which said that it 
couldnt raise a fraud investigation without cancelling the debit  card.
There were further phone calls between HSBC and Mr P. They  discussed when Mr P had 
realised there was a problem, and how the debits  might  have  come  about. Mr P told HSBC  
that hed first discovered fraudulent transactions after his bank statements went missing in 
2017. He suspected his former flatmate,  whod shared accommodation with him from 2009 
to June 2016, and who had moved  to a different  flat within the building. Mr P said the former  
flatmate could have accessed  the correspondence through a common landing.  
Mr P also told HSBC  that hed gone abroad  for the birth of his daughter in November 2017, 
and when he came  back  he thought  his balance wasnt  as high as it should have been.  He 
also said hed left his debit card in a taxi around that time, and the taxi driver had run after 
him to return  it.
In February 2018  Mr P had taken out a loan with HSBC. He told the bank hed done this 
because he was running out of money,  but at that point he didnt  know about the fraudulent 
transactions on his account. Hed only found out when  hed requested copies of his 
statements in April 2018. Hed then seen the fraudulent  transactions,  and that was why hed 
phoned HSBC  in May 2018.
HSBC refused to refund  Mr P for the transactions he said were fraudulent. It said that:
-there were undisputed  transactions on the same  dates as the chip and PIN ones 
which Mr P had disputed;
-Mr P had made transfers from a savings account, and had taken out the February  
2018 loan, to cover the money  withdrawn. Mr P said that the loan was to sustain him 
while travelling,  because his balance was low but he hadnt at that point realised 
there had been fraudulent transactions;
-HSBC couldnt  see why Mr P hadnt  queried the transactions earlier. Hed made bank 
payments using internet banking throughout this time. So HSBC said hed have been 
able to see the disputed transactions;
-Mr P had said hed always had his card with him, except during a period in hospital 
when it was in a storage room. He didnt  know how his ex-flatmate could have 
accessed the card, or known his PIN, which he didnt write down.
-HSBC told Mr P that the majority  of transactions had been carried  out with the 
genuine card and PIN, and it couldnt  see how Mr P hadnt noticed  the transactions. 
So it said that if Mr P hadnt authorised the transactions, it must have been someone 
else who could have  taken the card then returned it. It advised Mr P to contact the 
police as this was a criminal matter. But it wouldnt refund the disputed  transactions.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service.
Ref: DRN65483532The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. She explained  the relevant regulations, 
which are the Payment Service Regulations 2009 and the Payment Services  Regulations 
2017. She then considered whether the disputed  transactions had been authorised by Mr P, 
and what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
The investigator looked at options:
-She said it was unlikely someone  unknown to Mr P carried  out the transactions  
without his consent  because there was no explanation for how such  an unknown 
person could have  accessed the card on so many  occasions,  especially when Mr P 
was in multiple different countries.
-She considered  whether someone  known to Mr P had carried  out the transactions  
without his consent. This too seemed unlikely, because theyd have had to have 
accessed the card and returned  it without Mr Ps knowledge.
-So the investigator considered it was most likely  that Mr P had authorised the 
transactions himself.
Mr P didnt agree. He sent a long and detailed reply. His key points were:
-The disputed transactions had been  a mix of chip and PIN, contactless, online and 
international payments. Mr P said he didnt see how he could argue about  chip and 
PIN transactions without police evidence that theyd  been  made  by someone else.  So 
he listed the other transactions, and his comments on them.
-He wasnt satisfied  that when he first reported the problem in early May 2018, HSBC 
had said it couldnt investigate without cancelling the debit card. Mr P said an 
investigation could  have started  in parallel.
-Mr P said the he hadnt realised  there  had been  fraud until he received the 
statements in April 2018. He believed that HSBCs  fraud  team should have alerted 
him to the fraudulent transactions before then, and he said there was an obvious 
lapse in fraud protection measures by HSBC. This was especially because some of 
the transactions took place abroad.
-Mr P believed  that HSBCs complaint handling process was not robust, fit for 
purpose and focused  on resolution. He was unhappy that the investigator didnt 
comment on HSBCs  complaint handling processes.
-One of the disputed  transactions  concerned  a hotel  stay. The investigator  had 
contacted the hotel,  which had confirmed that someone had booked  a room  in Mr Ps 
name. But Mr P said that there  was no requirement to prove identification when 
booking online,  and hed never stayed there.
-Mr P said it was irrelevant that he was using savings and a loan to fund the cost of 
living. He said he hadnt realised about  the transactions  because he hadnt  expected  
there to be any irregularities on his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service.  Ive understood and looked 
into all of those, but Ive commented  on what I think is vital to my conclusions.  Id also point 
out that during the course of this complaint,  Mr P raised another, different, complaint about 
HSBC. Thats being dealt with separately  and doesnt form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN65483533Regulations
The relevant  regulations  under which I have  to consider Mr Ps complaint are, as Ive set out 
above, the Payment Services  Regulations. The 2009 regulations apply to Mr Ps disputed 
transactions prior to 13 January 2008 and the 2017  regulations apply to those  after that date. 
In both cases, the key issue in Mr Ps complaint is whether or not he authorised the 
transactions. There are some exceptions in the regulations, but generally  Mr P is liable  for 
transactions he authorised, and the bank is liable for transactions  which  he didnt authorise.
The pattern  of disputed transactions
The transactions disputed by Mr P started  in November  2017. As Mr P agreed,  theres a 
mixture of chip and PIN, contactless, online and international  payments.  The statements 
show that the transactions Mr P disputes  are mixed  in with ones which  he doesnt dispute. 
So, for example:
-on 7 November 2017 theres an undisputed contactless payment at 12.48, then two 
disputed chip and PIN transactions at 12.52 and 12.59, then an undisputed chip and 
PIN at 13.08. Theres then another disputed chip and PIN payment at 14.31 and an 
undisputed contactless  payment at 15.39;
-on 18 February 2018 there are three undisputed  chip and PIN transactions  between 
12.58 and 13.13,  then five disputed chip and PIN transactions  between 13.30  and 
13.57.
There are very few days when there are disputed  transactions  but no undisputed 
transactions. 
Its also clear  that Mr P was travelling abroad a lot during this period, to a number of different 
countries. The disputed transactions take place in the same  cities or locations abroad  as Mr 
P was carrying out undisputed transactions during the same  period.
Possible explanations for who authorised the disputed transactions
Banks keep computer records of authentications, and Mr Ps genuine  card and PIN number 
were used for Mr Ps disputed chip and PIN transactions. So whoever made the withdrawals 
knew Mr Ps PIN number and had access to his card. Mr P never  reported  his card lost. 
And the pattern Ive set out above, with disputed and undisputed transactions very close 
together, means  its very unlikely that the disputed transactions  were carried  out by a third 
party without Mr Ps knowledge. Thats because any such individual  would have had to have  
access to the card and PIN, and have been able to take these, unknown to Mr P, and then 
return the card again, also without Mr P knowing.  And this would have had to happen not 
once but lots of times.
I also note that the undisputed and disputed transactions on Mr Ps account took place in 
many countries. I find that its even more unlikely that an unauthorised third party could have 
followed Mr Ps travels,  which theyd have  had to do in order  to carry out the stealing and 
returning of the genuine  card.
At various points, Mr P has suggested the transactions might have been  carried out by his 
former flatmate, or by the UK taxi driver in whose taxi he briefly  left his card. I dont consider 
Ref: DRN65483534these individuals  would have followed Mr Ps travels and been able to take and return  his 
card regularly.
I recognise that in his reply to the investigators  view, Mr P said he didnt  see how he could 
argue about  chip and PIN transactions without police evidence  that theyd been made by 
someone else. But I consider its most unlikely that one person fraudulently carried out the 
chip and PIN transactions, and a different and unconnected  person fraudulently  carried  out 
the contactless, online and international payments.
Taking all these factors into account, I find that its more likely than not that Mr P carried out 
the disputed transactions himself.
Mr Ps specific arguments
Dealing with the other  main arguments  which Mr P raised in his reply  to the investigator:
-Mr P said that HSBC should  have started  to investigate the fraud  without requiring 
his debit card to be stopped. Banks  are entitled  to set their own security procedures.  
This service wouldnt interfere with these.  But in any case, I consider its entirely 
reasonable that a card which has allegedly been compromised, should  be stopped 
and reissued with a different number.  I find it surprising that a customer  whos  
reporting fraud wouldnt want to stop any further possible frauds, even if being  
without a card for a few days might cause  minor  inconvenience.
-Mr P argued that HSBCs fraud team should  have altered him to the fraudulent  
transactions before he found  out about  them in May 2018. He said he shouldnt have 
to prove  that transactions were fraudulent and unauthorised, especially when they 
were overseas. Hes said that lapses  in fraud  protection  measures on his account 
were obvious. I dont agree. The transactions which Mr P disputed used the genuine 
card, and were  mixed in with ones he says were genuine so there was nothing  
obvious to flag them as fraud.  I also disagree  that HSBC  should have acted any 
differently about the disputed overseas transactions. Mr P has said that he had to 
notify HSBC before  departure so the locations were  on the system. And all the 
disputed overseas transactions were mixed  in with undisputed ones,  so there  was 
nothing intrinsically  suspicious about  them.
-Mr P believed  that HSBCs complaint handling process was not robust, fit for 
purpose and focused  on resolution. This services  focus  is on the primary issue  in 
Mr Ps case, the allegation that 76 transactions were fraudulently carried out by 
someone else. We dont carry out investigations into a financial organisations 
processes. Thats  the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
-Mr P said that he never  stayed  at the hotel to which one of the disputed payments 
was made, and that there was no requirement  to provide photo identification when 
booking online.  Ive seen the hotels confirmation to the investigator that the 
transaction on 6 November 2017  for £528 was taken as a deposit for a booking. This 
says that the booking  was in the cardholders name. It makes no difference  whether 
or not Mr P did or didnt  eventually stay at the hotel. 
-Mr P said it was irrelevant that he was using savings and a loan to fund the cost of 
living. He said he hadnt realised about  the transactions  because he hadnt  expected  
there to be any irregularities on his account. I dont consider this argument  is 
Ref: DRN65483535reasonable. All customers are required to monitor their accounts.  Mr P didnt report 
the alleged fraudulent transactions until May 2018, even though some went  back  to 
November 2017.  I recognise that Mr P has told us he was in hospital for a while 
during the period, but that by no means covers the whole time. I also consider that 
anyone who found  their total balance was less that theyd expected, would have  
looked into their account  in more detail to see what was wrong,  even if they didnt 
normally fulfil their obligation to do so. So I find that the fact that Mr P was paying 
money into his account, which covered the cost of the outgoing  disputed  
transactions, means its likely he knew what was happening.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its most likely that Mr P authorised the 
disputed transactions  himself.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6548353