K820x#14complaint
Ms S and Mr R complain  CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) has declined their claim for 
storm damage under their buildings insurance  policy. They  also complain it gave misleading 
information in relation  to the sale of accidental damage cover.
background
In April 2018 Ms S and Mr R contacted CIS to report water was entering the property 
through a dormer roof. They thought  heavy rains  had caused the damage.
CIS said the damage  wasnt covered  under Ms S and Mr Rs policy, as it wasnt  satisfied the 
damage had been  as a result of a one-off insured  event. It said the conditions  at the time 
didnt show that a storm had taken place,  so it couldnt be covered under that part of the 
policy. And it said there was no other insured peril that would provide cover for the damage.
Ms S and Mr R complained to CIS. They said there  was an exceptionally high level of rainfall 
in the days leading up to the claim,  which should  be classed as storm conditions.  They  also 
said CIS had noted part of their claim could be covered under accidental damage,  but they 
hadnt taken out this optional cover. Ms S and Mr R said when they renewed their policy, 
they asked CIS about accidental damage  cover and they werent  properly advised  what  this 
would cover. They said had they known the internal damage would have been covered 
under this section  of the policy, theyd have  taken it out. Ms S and Mr R wanted CIS to 
backdate their policy to include accidental damage  to cover this part of the claim.
CIS didnt  agree it had done  anything  during  the renewal or in declining  the claim.
Our investigator didnt  think the weather reports had shown a storm had occurred. So she 
thought CIS had acted reasonably in declining the claim. She also didnt think  CIS had given 
Ms S and Mr R misleading information about  accidental damage cover when shed asked 
about it. So she didnt  think  CIS needed  to do anything differently.
Ms S and Mr R disagreed. They said all of the examples given  by the adviser  related to DIY 
damage being covered as accidental damage.  And as they dont carry out any DIY, they 
didnt think they needed it. As Ms S and Mr R didnt agree, the matter  has come to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  questions:
has it been proven,  on balance,  there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem  occurred?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim will succeed. But, if the answer  
to any of the above questions is no  the claim  wont  succeed under this section.
Ref: DRN69864512Ms S and Mr Rs policy doesnt  define  the word  storm.  So Ive looked at the weather 
records around the time Ms S and Mr R said the storm happened.  Theyve said they were 
away on holiday when there were heavy rains,  so they gave a range of dates of when the 
storm could be. Ive looked  at the weather records for all of the relevant periods  theyve  
mentioned.
Having done so, Ive noted there  was heavy rainfall around the time of the claim, but the 
level of intensity of the rainfall isnt enough to be considered as storm conditions alone. Ive 
also noted that the wind speeds during the relevant period were not strong enough to be 
classed as storm-strength winds. I dont doubt there was bad weather during the time Ms S 
and Mr R noticed water coming into the property, but the reports dont support that a storm 
had taken place.  So the answer  to the first question we ask is no. And because  of this, I 
dont need to consider the other questions as the claim cant succeed under the storm 
section of the policy.
Ive noted Ms S and Mr Rs comments about the weather station used  for the reports. The 
nearest weather station was around  7 miles away from Ms S and Mr Rs property. Ive 
checked all of the surrounding  weather stations and none of them  have shown storm 
conditions. And Ms S and Mr R havent been able to provide me anything which shows  their 
immediate area suffered  more severely than their surroundings. So I think  CIS is entitled to 
rely on this weather report to say there wasnt a storm. 
When Ms S and Mr R reported  the claim, they say they were told that it could have  been  
considered under the accidental damage section of the policy.  But they hadnt added  this 
cover on to their policy. I havent  considered whether a claim would have succeeded under 
accidental damage,  but Ive considered whether CIS treated Ms S and Mr R fairly  when  they 
renewed their policy.
When selling  insurance on a non-advised basis, CIS must ensure the information provided  is 
clear, fair and not misleading so that its customer can make  an informed choice about 
whether the cover was right for them. Having listened to the call between the adviser and      
Ms S, Im satisfied  CIS provided Ms S with enough information.
During the call the adviser tells Ms S she doesnt have optional  accidental  damage cover. 
She asks what that is and the adviser  explains its cover for unforeseen and unintentional 
damage. This matches  how the policy document describes  this cover.  Ms S asks for some 
more information  about what it would cover  and the adviser gives a few examples such as 
cover for damage to a work surface  if a hot pan was placed on it, putting  your foot through 
the ceiling  while in the loft or DIY related damage. Ms S decided not to go ahead as she said 
she didnt carry out any DIY.
I accept the adviser  didnt  say the cover  might offer extra protection if her home were to be 
damaged by a storm. Ms S thinks it should have told her this specifically. But I dont think the 
adviser gave information  that was unclear or misleading. Im satisfied he was providing some  
examples to illustrate the cover, and not an exhaustive list. It was ultimately up to Ms S to 
decide if the cover was suitable for her, and she decided  it wasnt. So just because she now 
thinks it might have  been useful to have, doesnt  mean CIS treated her unfairly  during the 
renewal process. 
I understand Ms S and Mr R are now frustrated  they didnt opt for the extra cover, but I dont 
think it would  be reasonable for CIS to add it on to the policy and backdate  if from the start 
So Ms S and Mr R can benefit from it.
Ref: DRN69864513Overall for the reasons  given above  Im not going  to ask CIS to do anything differently.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6986451