K820x#14complaint
Mr E took out a packaged bank account  with Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) in 1996 and 
he says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr E took out a fee free account with Barclays in February 1993.
He then upgraded to an Additions  Account (AA) in May 1996. 
Mr E closed the account in October 2004.
Mr E says that he was advised to take the AA out in order to have a better chance of getting 
a mortgage but he would  have rather had a fee free account.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Barclays mis-sold the account.  Mr E disagrees  so the case 
has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Es complaint.
In light of some of Mr Es submissions I think it may help Mr E if I explain that it is not my role 
to ask either party to prove what they did or said. My role is to look at the available  evidence 
in a fair and reasonable  manner. The sale took place over 20 years  ago so in my view its 
not unusual or unreasonable that Barclays has limited records  of what  took place. I also 
accept Mr Es point that Barclays employees whether they were paid commission  or not 
were motivated to sell packaged  back accounts.
Firstly I need to consider  whether Mr E knew he had a choice whether to take out the AA, 
and whether he chose to do so. I think he did and Ill explain why.
Mr E had a fee free bank  account and he says he had gone overdrawn a number of times 
before he took out his AA. So at the time of the sale, I think its more likely than not that he 
was aware that there was a range of fee free accounts available where  he could go 
overdrawn from both Barclays and other banks and financial institutions. I say this because 
banking is a competitive  market and bank accounts  are widely  advertised. So if having a fee 
free account  was important to him I think he wouldve checked elsewhere in the market.
So in my view he knew he had a choice whether to pay a fee for an account  or not and he 
chose to take the AA out. 
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  the 
AA to Mr E personally or advise him to take it out. Mr E says that Barclays did advise him to 
take it out. 
Ref: DRN65453862I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr Es needs  and circumstances  or suitability checks  to show me clearly 
that Barclays did make a personal  recommendation to him. I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mr E and explaining the benefits of the AA, Barclays may have  said 
or implied  that it was good idea to take out the AA. But this isnt the same as giving a 
personal recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of Barclayss  sales  
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that Barclays  sold the AA to Mr E on an 
information only basis. 
This means  Barclays did not have to ensure that the AA was suitable for Mr E, but it did have 
to provide Mr E with good  enough  information about the AA so he could make an informed 
decision about whether to have it or not.
The AA cost £5 a month  and its benefits in May 1996 included purchase protection, 
cardholder protection,  £5,000 life assurance cover, will writing  service; and a number of 
banking benefits  including  legal and tax advice,  and a fee free and interest  free arranged 
overdraft up to £100.
I note that at the time Barclays  charged  £5 a month on their fee free current accounts 
whenever a customer went overdrawn in the month.  This was in addition  to interest changes 
for the overdrawn amount.
Mr E says that Barclays told him he would get preferential consideration for taking out a 
mortgage if he took out the AA and this was the only reason he took out the account. 
Barclays says it didnt  say this.
Whilst I dont doubt  Me Es honest recollections, I think  its more  likely than not that his 
memory is mistaken. I say this because I think its likely Barclays told him a lot about the AA 
both verbally and in writing because it was trying to sell it to him. Mr E by his own account  ran 
an overdraft both before and after the sale of the AA. So I think its more likely than not that 
Barclays would have  explained to him that if he had the AA he wouldnt pay the £5 a month  
overdraft charge he incurred with the fee free account, so in effect  he would have the rest of 
the benefits of the AA for nothing.  I think  its likely  this was of interest to him, and I think  its 
more likely than not that he would have  taken out the account whether anything was said 
about getting a mortgage or not.
Furthermore Mr E had borrowed money from Barclays,  in the form of a loan for a car when he 
only had his fee free current account. So I think he would have understood that borrowing is 
dependent on an individuals credit rating and not the type of account  he held.
I can see nothing in Mr Es personal circumstances  that would have stopped him using the 
AAs benefits. And it was for him to decide  what he wanted to use.
Me E says that the AA fees increased  over time and he didnt know about it. But Barclays has 
provided drafts of letters it sent out each time the fees increased and the fees appeared every  
month on Mr Es account statement.  So Im not able to say I think  its more likely than not that 
he didnt know about increases in fees when they happened.
So, although  I know this will be disappointing for Mr E, in my view he knew  he had a choice 
about the AA and he chose to take it out. Mr E bought the AA on an information only basis. 
And I dont  think there is anything Barclays didnt tell him that would have changed  his mind 
and put him off taking out the AA.
Ref: DRN65453863my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6545386