K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  about Ageas Insurance Limited  and its handling of claim.  
background
Ms S unfortunately had to claim for damage  caused by an escape of water  at her home, the 
damage was quite extensive and she and her family had to move out due to the repairs  
necessary. She wasnt happy with the accommodation provided  and complained  to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and thought that Ageas should pay an 
increased award for distress and inconvenience.  Ageas didnt agree, so the case  has been 
passed to me for final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will be upholding the complaint, for the same reasons  as the investigator.  
Ms S had an unfortunate  incident which caused  considerable damage  to her home, that 
wasnt the insurers fault, and it was likely that she and her family  would  have been  out of 
their home for some considerable time whilst  repair work took place. However, I would have 
expected Ageas to take better care of her and her family in these circumstances. 
Ms S has two small children and she was required to stay in a hotel in one bedroom, and 
potentially one bed, for some five months. That really isnt acceptable as alternative 
accommodation for a family of that age for that long. I have the claim notes for the case  and 
it is clear Ms S made Ageas aware she was struggling in the hotel quite early on. Ms S also 
relates that she was told by the hotel that bills were outstanding and the claim notes confirm 
this, I can see why this would make things  worse, as you wouldnt want  the hotel to be 
chasing you when  Ageas should be settling these bills. 
The claim notes do suggest at one point that a serviced apartment was considered,  which I 
would have thought was a better  solution given the size and age of the family. But, the notes 
dont say why this wasnt carried through, there is though no suggestion that Ms S turned 
down any accommodation. 
On that basis I think the award suggested  is valid. 
Ref: DRN66170552my final decision
Ageas Insurance Limited should pay an additional  £1,600 distress and inconvenience  award 
on top of the £900 already  offered.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6617055