K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in connection with their mortgage.
background
In 1992 Mr and Mrs N took out PPI through Bank of Scotland  to cover each of their incomes. 
The PPI provided  50% of the benefit in the event  either of them couldnt work through  
accident or sickness or if they lost their job. The policy provided 100% of the benefit if both 
couldnt work. It cost £15 a month  and it provided a 100% benefit  of £250 per month  to 
broadly match their mortgage repayments.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr and Mrs Ns PPI policy ended in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs N chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate 
theyd lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs N disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale. This means Bank of Scotland  had to 
provide Mr and Mrs N not only with good enough information about the policy so they could 
make an informed decision about it. It also had to ensure the policy  was right or suitable for 
them based  on their needs and circumstances  at the time. Ive taken this into account in my 
consideration of the case.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr and Mrs N that they had a choice about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in May 1992. Mr and Mrs N say they didnt want  PPI with their 
mortgage and were unaware  theyd been given it. Bank  of Scotland  says Mr and Mrs N 
chose to take out the PPI.
The only evidence I have  from the sale is what Bank  of Scotland and Mr and Mrs N have told 
us, plus the policy description and the financial records  of the start and finish  of the 
mortgage and the policy.  
I accept it is possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Mrs N a choice about taking PPI. 
I also accept it is possible Bank of Scotland gave them  the impression they had to take it out. 
But it seems  more likely Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs N the opportunity  to take out the 
policy or decline it, and that they chose to take it out, but have  simply forgotten  in the years 
that have now elapsed. I say this because  this service has no evidence  of Bank of Scotland  
Ref: DRN62696952systemically telling consumers they had to have PPI at this time. Mr and Mrs N had had the 
mortgage without  PPI since 1987.  And had they chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been 
added to their account without either  their knowledge or consent,  I wouldve  expected  them 
to query  or challenge this shortly afterwards. I say this because  I think its likely that either 
the PPI cost was shown  separately on their statements or it made their monthly repayments 
£15 higher than the monthly  cost of the advance  they would have seen in their original loan 
offer. 
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint) it is more 
likely than not Bank of Scotland  presented the policy to Mr and Mrs N as compulsory or that 
it didnt tell them about the policy at all.
So I think Bank of Scotland presented the policy to Mr and Mrs N as optional  and they chose 
to take them  out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs N properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs N lost out?
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
N. I also dont know what information  Mr and Mrs N were given about the PPI. I dont know 
whether the policys  benefits were explained to them or if they were told about  the significant  
exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs N agreed to take the cover 
out knowing very little about it, but I dont  know if they received  everything they needed to 
know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Bank  of 
Scotland recommended to Mr and Mrs N that they take out PPI. I accept Mr and Mrs N may 
not have been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs N have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances  and needs in 1992, I think  the policy 
cover was suitable for them.  And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs N would have  acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover if Bank of Scotland  had provided better 
information. My reasons  are as follows:
Mr and Mrs N were eligible for their cover and all its benefits.
Mr and Mrs N were employed  and in good health  at the time, so it doesnt appear  
they would  have been affected by any of the key exclusions  / limitations of their cover 
such as existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms. 
Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage provided  mainly for their home. They both had income  and 
they had 6-12 months of savings between  them, and Mrs N had 3 months sick pay 
entitlement from her employer. This could have helped them make the mortgage 
payments if either was off work ill or lost his or her job. But the policy  would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay they received and for up to 12 
months for each  claim. So I think Mr and Mrs N had a need  for their cover and that it 
would have been useful to them if either had found  themselves unable to work. It 
could have helped  them financially at what would be a difficult time - it could have 
helped them protect their home.
Ref: DRN62696953I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs N but I find it 
unlikely they would have agreed  to something  without having some  understanding of 
the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have  declined  it solely on the basis  of its 
cost had it been made clearer to them. Ive already said they had a need for it and at  
£15 per month it appears to have been  affordable. And as they were paying  for the 
PPI monthly, they could  cancel  it without further cost if at any stage their situation 
changed or they no longer  wanted  it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs N may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably by Bank  of Scotland  in its 
dealings with them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons 
Ive detailed above, I think Mr and Mrs N chose to take out the PPI policy and they would 
have been in the same position if Bank of Scotland had done  more and properly advised and 
informed them - I think they would have still taken  it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs N have not lost out as a result of 
taking out the PPI policy with their mortgage, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6269695