K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Northern Bank Limited  (Northern)  mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M was sold a PPI policy when she took out a credit card in 2005. The policy  protected  
her card repayments if she couldnt  work  because of an accident, illness or unemployment. 
The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view so the case  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. Having done  so, Im not upholding it 
for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs M says that she felt pressured  into taking the PPI and that it wasnt  made clear to her 
that the cover was optional.
Northern has provided a copy of the credit card application that Mrs M signed.  Theres  a 
section on this dealing  with PPI. And I can see that theres a tick in the box next to the 
words: Yes I wish to take advantage of Payment Protection Insurance. So from what  Ive 
seen, I think Mrs M would have known that the cover was optional. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs M has said about feeling pressurised  into agreeing to 
the PPI. But this sale took place a long time ago and memories  do tend to fade over such 
timescales. And I dont  think it would  be fair for me to conclude  that Mrs M was subject to 
undue pressure to take the cover based  solely  on what she now thinks  she remembers 
happening at the time.
So, on balance, Ive concluded that its most likely that Mrs M actively  decided  to take out 
the PPI policy, knowing  she could choose  not to do so. But I can understand why she may 
not remember this now.
Mrs M says that Northern recommended the PPI policy to her in a meeting at one of its 
branches. And from what Ive seen, I think it is most likely to have been an advised sale. 
This means  that Northern needed  to ensure that the policy was suitable for her. I dont 
know how it did this. But from what I know about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I cant  
see any reason why it wouldnt have been  suitable. I say this because:
Mrs M appears  to have been eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN68001702Mrs M says she didnt  need the cover that the policy provided because she was eligible 
for statutory sick pay and could also have relied  on her family  for financial support in 
need. But this policy would have paid out in addition to any other  means she had. It 
would also have  paid out for longer than her sick pay would have lasted and would have 
been more secure than relying on relatives for help.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Mrs M. And as the premiums were  
paid monthly, she could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met her needs.
Northern also needed to ensure that it gave Mrs M enough information  about the PPI policy 
for her to decide  if it she wanted to take it. I think its likely that the information Northern gave 
her wasnt  as good as it should have been.  But for much the same reasons that I dont think 
the policy was unsuitable for Mrs M, I dont think that better information would have changed 
her mind  about taking  it. I think  shed  still have thought the policy gave her useful benefits at 
an affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Mrs M has lost out by anything that Northern did wrong  when it sold her 
the PPI.
This means  that Northern doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Northern offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because it got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Mrs M about that. Because Northern didnt  tell Mrs M, that was unfair.
I understand that Northern has already made  a compensation payment to Mrs M in respect 
of the high level of commission and profit share it got. But Northern now says the amount it 
calculated and paid to Mrs M under its original offer requires revision. So Northern has made 
a further offer to Mrs M to pay the additional amount in compensation she is due  and I 
think that this further offer is fair in this case.  
my final decision
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. So if it hasnt already done so, I now 
direct that Northern Bank Limited should  pay Mrs M any additional compensation which  she 
is due as a result of the revision its made to the original compensation offer it paid to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6800170