K822xComplaint
Mr C complains that AvantCredit Of UK, LLC (AvantCredit)  acted irresponsibly by lending 
him money  in March  2016.
Background 
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 21 February 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought AvantCredit  was irresponsible when it 
approved Mr Cs loan.  
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision.
Both Mr C and AvantCredit accepted my provisional findings.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision  and I havent  received any new 
evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right, AvantCredit Of UK, LLC should:
a)add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr C towards interest,  fees and 
charges on the loan.  
b)calculate 8% simple interest  on the individual payments  made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of a), calculated from the date Mr C originally made  the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
then refund the amounts  calculated in a) and b) 
Ref: DRN61614422c)remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the loan. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61614423Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr C complains that AvantCredit Of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) acted irresponsibly by lending him 
money in March 2016.
Background
In March 2016, Mr C applied for a loan.  AvantCredit lent him £5,500 to be repaid over three years at 
£237.27 a month. The total amount repayable  over the full term of the loan was £8,541.70. 
Mr C thinks  AvantCredit shouldnt have lent him the money.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint, and thought Mr Cs complaint  about the loan he took out in 
March 2016 should be upheld.  She didnt  think AvantCredit had carried out sufficient  checks before 
deciding to lend Mr C the money. And she thought that had AvantCredit done more, it would have 
realised the loan repayments werent  sustainable.  So, she recommended that AvantCredit refund Mr 
C any charges and interest he paid on the capital sum he borrowed. She also recommended  
AvantCredit remove any negative  information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file.
AvantCredit didnt agree with our adjudicators  assessment of Mr Cs complaint.  So, the complaint has 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
When bringing his complaint to our service, Mr C explained that he was unable  to afford  the loan 
repayments alongside his other credit commitments,  which included a large overdraft, credit cards  
and a number of short-term  loans. He also explained  to us that he had a gambling addiction.
As AvantCredit was entering a regulated credit  agreement, it needed to assess  Mr Cs 
creditworthiness. This included the potential for the commitments  under the agreement  to adversely 
impact Mr Cs financial  situation, and the ability  for Mr C to make repayments as they fell due over the 
term of the loan.
In particular, the regulators rules that applied  to AvantCredit  at the time said it needed to make 
reasonable and proportionate  checks  when assessing Mr Cs ability to meet the monthly  repayments 
in a sustainable manner  without Mr C incurring  financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences. This included Mr C being able to make the payments  on time while  meeting  his other 
reasonable commitments and without  having  to borrow to meet the monthly  loan repayments.
The checks AvantCredit did had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan.  And 
what is proportionate will depend on a number of factors  including things like the customers financial 
history, their financial situation at the time of the loan application, along with other factors such  as the 
amount borrowed, type of loan and the cost of the credit being sought.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks should generally be more  thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN61614424the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required  to make payments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered what reasonable  and proportionate checks  should  have looked like
when AvantCredit was in the process of approving the loan for Mr C. And Ive thought  carefully about 
what checks AvantCredit says it did and whether those were proportionate in the circumstances.
Having considered  the available  information, Im not satisfied the checks carried  out by AvantCredit  
were reasonable and proportionate when assessing Mr Cs ability to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. Ill explain why.
AvantCredit believes the affordability checks it carried out when Mr C applied for the loan, were  
sufficient. It says this is evidenced by the fact that Mr C was able to make his contractual  repayments 
for the majority of the loan term. It also says it doesnt think  it did anything  wrong by approving Mr Cs 
loan application, as the funds would  have  enabled  him to consolidate some of his existing debt and 
reduce his overall repayments to creditors.
In support of what its said, AvantCredit has provided  us with some information about  the checks it 
carried out when Mr C applied for the loan. This included a copy of the income and expenditure form,  
which Mr C completed during the loan application  process.  Its also sent us a copy  of the affordability 
report it used when deciding  to loan Mr C the money.
Mr Cs income and expenditure form shows he declared a monthly income of £1,650 and monthly 
expenses of £600. This seems to suggest that Mr C had around £1,050 as disposable income each 
month.
AvantCredits affordability report, however, shows  Mr C had taken out at least  six short-term loans in 
the months prior to this loan application. The report also shows that Mr C had paid around £1,027 
towards short-term  loans in the month before  he applied  for this loan and owed around £7,789 to his 
creditors. This suggests that Mr C was relying on credit to meet his monthly expenses,  despite his 
declared monthly expenses of £600 a month.
 
So, Ive gone on to consider  what other information was available to help establish a clear picture of 
Mr Cs financial situation  around the time of the loan.
Mr C has provided us with copies of his bank statements for the period  of February  and March  2016. 
As the loan application took place  on 8 March  2016, Ive had a look at his statements for the month of 
February and the first week of March. These  statements show Mr C had a total of 31 separate 
transactions relating  to short-terms loans, 9 of which were credits  to his account. I can also see that 
Mr C had five credit cards, which he was making  small  regular payments towards. 
In addition to this, the bank  statements show significant  amounts of gambling transactions. During the 
period 1 February to 8 March 2016, Mr C had spent over five times his monthly salary on gambling 
websites. 
The statements also show he was heavily  reliant on his large overdraft facility. At the point at which 
Mr C applied for this loan,  his account  was overdrawn by around £2,800, despite being paid his salary 
one week earlier. His bank statements also show that the day after he received the loan payment of 
£5,500, his account reverted back to into its overdraft, leaving his account overdrawn by around 
£2,800. 
While I can see that Mr C settled some of his existing loans  using the funds  from this loan, there were 
still other loans which he wasnt able to settle.  The statements  show that within a week of receiving 
the funds for this loan, Mr C applied for two further short-term loans to help him meet  his financial 
commitments.
Ref: DRN61614425While I accept  that Mr C was able to meet the majority of his contractual  loan repayments, I dont 
think this shows that the repayments were sustainable. Im satisfied that Mr Cs bank statements 
show that he was relying on additional lending and credit facilities to help meet his financial 
obligations. And while  this loan was used to help consolidate some of Mr Cs existing loans, the time 
over which Mr C would need to make his loan repayments sustainably,  had increased significantly.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think AvantCredit ought to have known  that their assessment of Mr 
Cs financial situation wasnt a true reflection  of his actual financial situation and spending habits, and 
that the loan repayments werent sustainable in the circumstances. 
So Ive gone on to consider what would  have  happened  had AvantCredit carried out further checks. In 
the circumstances of this complaint, I think that had AvantCredit  carried out further affordability 
checks using the available information, I think its unlikely  that it would  have thought  the lending to Mr 
C was sustainable.
Taking everything Ive said into account, I think  the information Ive seen gives a strong impression 
that Mr C was struggling to fund his spending  habits and day-to-day expenses  despite his monthly 
salary. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs actual financial situation, I think its more likely than not that he 
would have had to borrow again during the lifetime of this loan in order to meet  his monthly  
repayments. 
For these  reasons, I dont think Mr C was going  to be able to repay  this loan in a sustainable manner. 
I think  that if AvantCredit  had made  proportionate checks  it would  have realised this. And I think Mr C 
has lost out because of what AvantCredit did wrong.
putting things  right
Im satisfied that AvantCredit  was irresponsible when it approved Mr Cs loan, 
d)AvantCredit should  add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards  interest,  
fees and charges on the loan.  
e)It should calculate  8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made  by Mr C which  were 
considered as part of a), calculated from the date Mr C originally  made the payments,  to the 
date the complaint is settled.
AvantCredit should then refund the amounts  calculated in a) and b) 
f)AvantCredit should  remove  any adverse  information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation 
to the loan.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  AvantCredit  to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mr C a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has deducted,  if Mr C asks for one.
My provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint. And I intend to require AvantCredit Of UK, LLC to put 
things right as outlined  above.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6161442