K821x#15complaint
Mr R, on behalf of Mr and Mrs P, complains about the suitability of investment advice given 
to them  by Jenkins  Financial Advisers Limited.  Primarily, Mr R feels  that too much of their 
money was placed  at risk. 
background
Mr and Mrs P were  first advised  by Jenkins in 2014.  At the time they were  in their 80s and 
70s respectively, both with quite  serious  health  issues. Indeed, Mr P had just received 
around £200,000 by way of a medical  negligence award. 
The award was held on deposit.  The remainder  of their money  a further £200,000  was 
spread across other  current accounts, an investment  bond  and cash  and stocks & shares  
ISAs. Mr and Mrs P owned their own home and had a disposable  income in excess of 
£1,000 each month. So they were in a reasonably secure financial position. 
The initial advice received from Jenkins in late 2014/early  2015  recommended  they place 
£110,000 into a new investment bond, in a cautious fund; £40,000 into some 
National Savings  bonds; and £30,000 into cash ISAs. 
In April 2015 they were  advised to invest a further £30,000 into the new bond. Then in 
November 2016  £65,000 was moved from the cash ISAs to the new bond. Finally,  in 
August 2017,  another £97,500 of Mr and Mrs Ps ISA holdings were moved to the bond.  
In 2018 Mr R made a complaint to Jenkins  about the suitability of the advice. It didnt  uphold  
the complaint  as it felt all the advice it had provided  had been  reasonable and justified, 
saying Mr and Mrs P had always appeared happy with what was being recommended.  
Jenkins also highlighted  that Mr and Mrs P had made gains as a result of the advice that 
outstripped what wouldve  been  achieved on deposit, even with the fees for the advice taken 
into account. Mr R didnt  accept this so the complaint was then referred to this service.  
Our adjudicator reached a different conclusion to Jenkins and felt the complaint should be 
upheld. He acknowledged that it was generally  reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to have been 
given some advice  on their financial situation,  particularly in light of Mr Ps medical 
negligence award. And he thought that elements  of the advice had been suitable  for them   
for instance, the initial National Savings bonds and ISA recommendations. 
But he felt too much of Mr and Mrs Ps money had been committed to the new investment 
bond. He noted that by August 2017  more  than 80% of their capital had been moved into the 
new bond. And while this was invested in a cautious fund it nevertheless still presented  too 
great a risk for Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances. The adjudicator  also noted that much of the 
advice had been based on the potential for the money in the bond to be ring-fenced so not 
taken into account  in the event of local authority means-testing for care costs. He 
acknowledged that this could have  benefitted Mr and Mrs P. But he didnt think it provided 
sufficient justification  for such a large amount of money to be invested in the bond.   
In respect of compensation, the adjudicator recommended that the performance of 
Mr and Mrs Ps bond should be compared  with our usual no risk fixed-rate  bond  benchmark 
to see if this indicated  that a loss had been  incurred.  
Ref: DRN63953412And he also recommended  that Jenkins should refund some  of the fees it had charged  to 
Mr and Mrs P. Specifically, the adjudicator felt they had been overcharged by £300 for the 
advice given in April 2015. And, further, that all the fees for the November 2016 and 
August 2017 advice  (around £3,500) should be refunded because  the advice hadnt  been 
suitable. And, moreover, because a refund would also reflect  the fact that Mr and Mrs P had 
lost some of their ISA allowance.     
In response, Mr R suggested that all the fees (just over £6,000)  should be refunded given 
the adjudicators  criticism of the advice and Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances and vulnerability. 
In particular, he felt there  should at least also be a refund  of some of the fees associated 
with the initial advice as, although  some of it was suitable, the majority  the new investment 
bond  was not. 
The adjudicator confirmed that there appeared to have already have been a reduction  
applied to the fees charged for the initial advice, hence why he hadnt suggested that that 
fee should be refunded. 
Jenkins responded to highlight that, similarly to its earlier calculations, the compensation 
recommended by the adjudicator indicated  that Mr and Mrs P hadnt made a loss. In fact, 
theyd made  a gain of over £5,000, even when taking into account  the impact  of the charges. 
But it nevertheless offered  to make a payment to settle the complaint based  on the 
difference between  the total fees charged  and the gain made  rounded  up to £1,500. 
This was put to Mr R who, on behalf  of Mr and Mrs P, decided  not to accept it. So, as no 
agreement could be agreed,  the matters been  referred to me to review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having reviewed all the submissions in full and in detail it appears  that my role in issuing this 
decision is principally to decide what represents  a fair level of compensation for 
Mr and Mrs P. But that said, for completeness, I think  its important that I also confirm  my 
agreement with the adjudicators view that the advice provided to Mr and Mrs P by Jenkins 
wasnt suitable.  
By the point of the fourth  tranche of advice, in August  2017,  Mr and Mrs P were left with a 
very large  proportion of their money  at risk. Although they were  invested in a cautious fund I 
nevertheless cant see that, given  their age, health  and overall  financial circumstances, it 
was suitable to expose so much money  to risk and, further, with such a lack of diversity.  
I note that consideration was given to ring-fencing so as to potentially protect the money  in 
the event of means-testing for care costs.  But this in itself is a risky strategy as success  is in 
no way guaranteed. So, while it can sometimes work as a useful by-product of advice, it 
doesnt render  otherwise  unsuitable advice suitable.
 
Turning then to the matter  of compensation, it appears that Mr and Mrs P didnt make a loss 
as a result  of the advice; at least, not purely  on the basis of a comparison with our 
benchmark at the date of calculation. 
Ref: DRN63953413But it remains the case that they were  unsuitably advised to expose their money  to too much 
risk at a time when  they were in no position to make good or cope with any losses  that might 
have occurred. And theyve paid a significant amount for that. Further, the way in which  they 
were charged wasnt entirely clear   hence in part the adjudicators recommendation that 
some of the fees be refunded. And, moreover,  theres the issue of the ISA allowance being  
impacted by the advice to move money  from the ISAs  to the new bond. 
Its not a straightforward  matter to quantify  all these issues. But looking at them  objectively 
Im not persuaded that compensation of £1,500 as offered by Jenkins sufficiently addresses 
them all. And theres also the possibility that Mr and Mrs P may incur further costs for advice 
in the future that wouldnt otherwise have been needed if the advice they received from 
Jenkins had been more suitable.   
All this being  so, I think the compensation recommended by the adjudicator  a refund  of a 
combination of charges that amounts to around  £3,775, from total charges incurred of just 
over £6,600, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, for clarity, Ive set out the 
redress in full below.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs P as close to the position  they would  probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable  advice. 
I take the view that Mr and Mrs P would have invested differently. It is not possible  to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
what should  Jenkins  do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs P fairly,  Jenkins  must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Ps investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment.  If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, nothing will be 
payable in respect of this aspect of the compensation. (As noted, previous 
calculations have  shown this is likely to be the case).
Regardless of the outcome of the above calculation, Jenkins must repay the following 
advisors fees together with simple  interest  at 8% a year, from the date the fees were 
paid to the date of settlement: The increased fee representing £300 in total from the 
April 2015 ISA advice.  The £2,013.67  for the November 2016 ISA transfers. The 
£1,462.50 from August  2017  to then transfer  the ISAs  into the Prudential Investment 
Plan. 
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Prudential 
Investment  
Plan and  
surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
Ref: DRN63953414ISAs date to the date 
of settlement
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Jenkins should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mr and Mrs P wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given 
Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances and objectives.  It does  not mean that Mr and Mrs P 
would have invested only in a fixed rate bond.  It is the sort of investment return a 
consumer could  have  obtained  with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Jenkins 
Financial Advisers Limited  to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs P as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6395341