K821x#15complaint
Mrs V complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out in June 2008 when she applied  for a mortgage  during a 
telephone call with the Santander representative. 
background
Mrs V complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld 
because it wasnt suitable for her financial  circumstances.  Santander  disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to PPI 
complaints.
Having looked  at all of the information given to me, I think  I should uphold  Mrs Vs complaint  
for the same reason  as our adjudicator suggested,  namely that the PPI wasnt suitable  for 
her because the full cost and benefits  of the policy were not made clear to her at the point of 
sale; and if they had been,  she wouldnt have  bought the policy. 
The policy was sold during a telephone call  our adjudicator said this was non advised. So 
Santander had to make sure it gave Mrs V enough information which was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so that she could  make  her own informed choice about it.
Ive seen a copy  of the telephone call script Santander  said it used at around the time of the 
sale. There is a limited  amount of information  given during  the call and it is suggested that 
Mrs V will receive  a welcome pack in due course which  gives  more detailed  information 
about the policy she has bought. I dont think the information given  to Mrs V during the call 
about the cost and benefits of the policy was as clear as it couldve been. I think those 
details would have  mattered to Mrs V because she tells us:
she had around  £10,000  in savings  at the time of the sale and
a separate  accident, sickness and unemployment policy with another insurer giving her a 
monthly benefit to cover  this mortgage  repayment.  
I think her savings and insurance cover  taken together outweigh  the benefits of the PPI 
policy. I think that if information had been made  clearer at the time of the sale, I dont think  
Mrs V wouldve  thought the policy  provided her with much benefit over and above  her 
savings and insurance. So I think Santander failed  to inform Mrs V properly. I also think  Mrs 
V has lost out as a result of Santanders failing in this case,  because  I dont think  she 
wouldve gone ahead with the policy if hed been  properly informed. So Im going to uphold  
this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN68643462Santander UK Plc should put Mrs V in the position  shed be in now if  she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander UK 
Plc should:
Pay Mrs V the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs V made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander UK Plc can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount  it owes  her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must  give Mrs V a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6864346