K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited (HIFM), failed to properly 
carry out instructions  for the transfer  of funds  from her ISA. 
background
Mrs L held an ISA with HIFM.  In February 2018, Mrs L, through her independent adviser 
(IFA), gave instructions  to sell £44, 000 and transfer  £53, 935.84  into a joint investment 
account. Forms for withdrawal of £44, 000 were sent with the letter, appropriately signed by 
Mrs L. The letter stated that transfer  forms would be sent later.  The encashment  request was 
actioned on 14 February and the funds  were sent by BACS to Mrs Js nominated  bank 
account. 
On 22 February a request was received to transfer  the management of the ISA to the IFA. 
The instruction requested  the transfer  to be made  in cash and stated it should be completed 
after the withdrawal  of £44, 000 had been  made. The transfer  form was signed by Mrs L and 
the amount to be transferred was filled in as ALL, i.e. the balance of the ISA. The transfer 
was made  on 22 February of £75, 884.92 and HIFM wrote  to both Mrs L and her IFA to 
confirm this.
It wasnt until June 2018 that the IFA questioned  why the whole balance of the ISA had been 
transferred for their management,  raising concern that capital gains tax would now be 
payable. Mrs L says that had the original instructions been followed,  she would not have 
incurred capital gains  tax and shes asked for this to be refunded.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and decided not to uphold  it. He thought HIFM  
hadnt done anything wrong  as they followed the instructions received.
Mrs L disagrees with the view, so the matter  has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the sequence of correspondence set out above.  Im satisfied that HIFM 
followed the instructions  they received. They processed the withdrawal of £44, 000 in 
accordance with signed instructions. No further  forms or instructions were received about 
transferring part of the balance of the ISA into a joint investment account. 
The next correspondence asked for ALL the ISA to be transferred in cash to the IFA. And 
Ive seen a signed transfer  form had been completed and signed by Mrs L. 
It wasnt unreasonable for HIFM  to follow these authorised instructions and Ive seen that 
both Mrs L and the IFA were informed  once the transfer had been made. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs L, but I wont be asking HFIM to do anymore.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I am not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN63174452Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6317445