K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint relates a household insurance policy arranged through  A-Plan  Holdings. 
He said that it failed to act in a broker capacity by offering no advice and not taking proper 
precautions when setting up the policy. This led to a claim on the policy  being  rejected and 
the insurance policy being voided (cancelled  as though it had never existed). As a result, 
Mr R has had to take out a specialist insurance  policy at a much higher cost and will have to 
sell the insured property  at a lower value or find a significant sum to complete repairs  first.
background
In September  2017 the relative Mr R lived with died. The relative owned the property and 
had a household insurance  policy, which appears to have been left in place unchanged after 
September 2017. A few days before the insurance policy  was due to expire in February 
2018, Mr R contacted A-Plan to make new insurance arrangements,  as he didnt consider it 
was right to leave the insurance in the relatives name  in the circumstances.  
Mr R says he told A-Plan that he and his brother were due to inherit  the property. He has 
said he believes that the existing policy was amended to his name  at renewal, however, a 
completely new insurance policy was arranged in Mr Rs name. 
A-Plan has provided three call recordings from around the time of the sale. On the day of the 
sale, Mr R was told that the adviser he had spoken to earlier that day wasnt  available, but 
had run two quotes  for him from two different providers  and with two different re-build values. 
The first of these quotes was from the insurer that was then currently  insuring the property  in 
the deceased relatives name, and the second from the insurer  a policy was taken with. Mr R 
wasnt happy with the brief description  of the second policy  details as the rebuild value was 
lower than he had said he wanted as a minimum. Mr R said he would call the adviser again 
and it would appear he did, as a policy was arranged that day, but there is no call recording 
of the conversation.  
The following  day, after the policy application had gone in and been  agreed,  Mr R called 
twice as he was having difficulties accessing the policy  documentation.  He was sent it in a 
different format at his request.  
Letters of administration were granted for the estate in April 2018 and Mr R was appointed 
as one of the administrators.  
A-Plan provided a recording  of a telephone enquiry  Mr R made in June 2018. He was 
enquiring about whether the policy needed to be changed to reflect a recent purchase.  
Initially he suggested that the insurance  policy was in the name  of another relative, rather  
than his. It was only after the adviser was unable to find a policy in her name that he 
mentioned that it might  be in his name instead; he said, It probably got changed  into my 
name.
In July 2018 Mr R informed A-Plan hed had a structural survey done on the property as it 
was suffering from cracking. He was going to get a second survey done and A-Plan asked if 
Mr R wanted to make a claim. 
In August  2018  Mr R telephoned A-Plan.  Mr R didnt appear to be certain in what  name  the 
household insurance policy had been taken out  his or another relatives. It was again 
Ref: DRN65438892confirmed the policy was in his sole name. He requested  a copy  of the insurance  policy  
documentation be sent to him and he confirmed he was likely to make a claim on the policy. 
In September  2018 a claim was made to the insurer because  of cracking that had occurred 
to the property. The insurer assessed  the claim and concluded the damage  had been 
caused by subsidence and some  further  investigations were  needed.
On 19 October 2018 the insurer wrote to Mr R and explained the insurance policy had been  
granted on the basis that Mr R owned the insured property.  It had become aware that this 
was not the case  and the property was part of Mr Rs deceased relatives  estate. The insurer  
said that had it known about  the ownership  of the property it wouldnt have agreed to provide 
cover as that type of ownership was unacceptable  to it. Given this and the fact that Mr R 
didnt have an insurable interest in his own right at the time the policy  was arranged, it 
voided the policy and refunded the premium  via the broker.
Mr R raised a complaint  with A-Plan. He said that he had told A-Plan that his relative had 
passed away and as such the household insurance  shouldnt be in the relatives  name 
anymore, so it was amended to Mr Rs name  at renewal.  He said he considered  that A-Plan 
hadnt picked  up on this as a reason to refer to the insurer before setting up the policy. Due 
to that, the policy  had been voided and the claim made had been declined.  
A-Plan didnt uphold the complaint as it said it had no record  of being asked to arrange a 
policy based on him being the administrator or executor of his relatives  estate. Mr R didnt 
accept A-Plans response and referred  his complaint to this service. When doing  so Mr R 
indicated the policy had been arranged during  a telephone call on 12 February 2018 and if 
we listened to that call it would make  the mistake  by A-Plan clear.
Mr R provided  a statement from the adviser  who had arranged  the insurance  policy  for him. 
The statement  had no address or contact  details on it. It said that when Mr R had called to 
discuss his relatives policy renewal, it was done on A-Plans telephone system (implying  
that it should have been recorded)  and that Mr R told him that the property was due to be 
inherited. As such, the policy name was changed  at renewal. The adviser also said that the 
manager was aware  of the details surrounding the new home insurance policy and neither of 
them had spotted that the fact that the property belonged to an estate would be material  to 
the insurer.
A-Plan was asked for its records  relating  to the arrangement  of the insurance policy.  It 
provided documentation and three telephone  call recordings. It stated it had searched  all its 
call recordings  from the time of the sale of the policy, but these were the only recordings it 
could find. It also highlighted that Mr R was a former  member  of staff with experience  in 
personal lines insurance before moving to commercial insurance.  Also,  that the adviser  
involved in the policy arrangement (who  had subsequently left A-Plan)  was a good  friend  of 
Mr R. A-Plan suggested that because  of this friendship the discussions about the policy had 
taken place outside of the office telephone system. It commented that this was against their 
procedures and both men would have known  this. The records  the adviser had made at the 
time werent  in line with the more recent statement hed made following the complaint,  as 
they recorded Mr R as the owner/occupier  of the property.
The branch  manager provided a statement which contradicted the statement by the former 
adviser. He stated that had he known about the situation it would have resulted in further 
investigation into the legal ownership of the property. He also said that the adviser had the 
Ref: DRN65438893technical competence  after several years in that role, to have known the correct basis  on 
which to set up the policy had it been known that the property  hadnt  yet been inherited.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators conclusions and said he thought  A-Plan was hiding the 
call recording  in which he told the adviser  he was to inherit the property but hadnt done so 
yet. He commented that there was no benefit  to the adviser in not telling the truth in his 
statement. Some comment on our process  was given. 
Mr R went on to explain that whilst the documentation didnt state the property was due to be 
inherited, he thought  advising  A-Plan of the situation  was enough to leave the arrangement  
of the insurance  in its hands. He said he didnt know that it had to be written  on the 
documentation that he didnt own the property yet and he assumed there would be a note on 
its system. He said that he used  a broker because it gave him assurance that he was being  
looked after by professionals in that specific sector (which is not the area of insurance he 
works in) and he would receive appropriate advice. He asked that the complaint be passed  
to an ombudsman for review.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold  a complaint, I must  find that A-Plan made an error  in setting up Mr Rs 
policy. Where  there is limited evidence or the evidence  doesnt lead to an obvious 
conclusion, I will make a decision based on the balance of probabilities. Where there is a 
disagreement about what has been  said, as is the case  here, I must be persuaded that the 
consumers account  of the conversation is more  likely than that of the financial business, not 
just as likely.  
Mr R has indicated he has limited knowledge  of personal lines insurance and that he relied 
on the advice  he was given by A-Plan in relation to his policy. However,  the telephone call 
we do have access to from before the policy was arranged, would indicate he was quite 
involved in the process  and decision making.  I would also comment that insurable interest is 
a very basic  insurance  concept that crosses  the boundary of different types of insurance.
Unfortunately, the key telephone call in which Mr R says he made the adviser aware  of the 
piece of information this case turns on isnt available. I note that Mr R believes  this is 
because A-Plan is withholding the recording, rather than it not being available.  I have seen 
no evidence this is the case. However,  it does mean that I cannot be certain  what  was 
discussed before the policy was arranged and what knowledge A-Plan  had.
There is no mention on A-Plans  records that Mr R didnt own the property with his brother or 
that they were  awaiting documentation to allow the relatives estate  to be settled. 
We know that Mr R received the policy documentation  before the policy went on risk. This 
documentation detailed  Mr R as the owner/occupier  of the property, which he knew  to be 
untrue. So he was aware the insurer had been  given incorrect  information. He was also 
aware that the policy was set up in his personal name, rather  than in the name of his 
relatives estate, which again  he reasonably would have known to be an error, as he had no 
insurable interest in the property at the time. 
Ref: DRN65438894Based on the evidence  I have available to me, I cant find Mr Rs account of the events  
leading to the sale of his insurance policy is more likely to be correct than that of A-Plan. In 
which case, I cant be satisfied that Mr R ended up in the position he did because A-Plan 
made a mistake or error, and so I cant uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept  or reject my decision before 
28 October 2020..
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6543889