K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mr K says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr K applied  for his card and PPI policy through the post. He says that he was told, or it 
was implied that he had to take out the PPI in order to get his credit card.  But I think BoS 
made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he may not remember  this as it was so long ago. I say 
this because BoS has provided  a copy of Mr Ks credit card application  and on this 
I can see that the PPI is presented as optional,  and has been selected with a tick. Mr K 
has then gone  on to sign the application,  agreeing to the information  on it.
Mr Ks representatives have said that as the PPI section contains the words Bank of 
Scotland strongly recommends  that you protect your monthly card repayments it 
pressures the consumer in to taking  the policy  and may lead them  to think  that they 
had to take it out. But I disagree  the full wording in this section  shows that the policy is 
optional, and I would expect a business  to promote its own products.
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr K got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said  but these points dont change my decision,  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr K paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr K back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more.
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr K now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN68376872my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6837687