K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained on behalf of Mr and Mrs G about the settlement offered by 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited  after they made a claim under their home 
insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy  with AAs service.
background
References in this decision to AA include  its claims handler.
In January 2018 Mr G made a claim to AA after he noticed damp and mould on the top floor 
of his three storey property and water  damage  to a lounge on the first floor.  He said he 
wasnt sure of the cause.  
AA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor reported  that there was no sign of 
any storm damage but the roof was in poor condition . He said they were  covered for the 
internal water damage to the bedroom and lounge. Mr and Mrs G accepted that they werent  
covered for repairs to their roof. 
Mr H asked AA to carry out further  investigations.  So on 26 March 2018  AA sent a leak 
detection company to the property. The company  didnt find any leaks. It found water 
damage in a second floor bedroom, first floor lounge and ground floor sitting  room.  It thought  
all these rooms had been damaged by rainwater getting in through the roof. AA sent its 
surveyor to carry out a further  inspection. He thought Mr and Mrs G could have prevented 
the damage to the ground floor from happening.
AA offered  a cash settlement of £1,326  less the policy excess for the damage  to the building  
and £748 for replacement  carpets  to the bedroom and lounge, again less the policy excess. 
It didnt agree to pay for damage caused  to the ground floor of the property.
Mr H complained to AA. It said it realised in fact Mr and Mrs G didnt have accidental 
damage cover after all. It said as a result they werent  covered  for the internal  damage 
either. But AA said on a goodwill basis it wouldnt withdraw the cash settlement offer.  It didnt 
accept that thered been any service failings.
The complaint was brought to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said 
Mr and Mrs G did have accidental damage cover. But he didnt think that AA had acted 
unfairly in not accepting  the claim for damage  to the ground floor.
As Mr and Mrs G didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have accepted that the roof wasnt damaged by a storm. Ive checked their 
policy and theyre  also covered  for accidental damage to the building  and contents. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as unexpected  and unintended  damage caused 
by sudden and external  means. I think  this is a fair definition.
Ref: DRN65552162When a policyholder makes a claim,  its their responsibility to show that an insured event (in 
this case, accidental damage) most likely caused  the damage. If I think  theyve done that, Ill 
ask the insurer  to deal with the claim unless theres  a condition breach or exclusion that 
applies. 
Mr H said: The ingress was through a vertical row of cracked tiles underneath  the lead 
flashing which were  damaged  during  the replacement of the flashing many  years prior to 
their ownership. These tiles were cracked  due to some heavy handed hammering down of 
new lead flashing  over top. This led to a gradual  intermittent ingress over many  years.
Although the cause  of the damage was something happening gradually,  its important to note 
that the damage can still be sudden.  So I think it was right for AA to accept that some of the 
internal damage  was accidental under the policy terms.  The question I need  to decide is 
whether AA treated Mr and Mrs G fairly  in not accepting that the internal damage to the 
ground floor of the property also fell within the definition of accidental  damage.
Mr H thinks on his first visit AAs surveyor overlooked the damage on the ground floor due to 
negligence. Im not persuaded  thats  the case. When Mr G first notified AA of the claim, he 
said the carpet was wet in the top floor bedroom and in the same corner of the lounge  on the 
first floor. I assume if at that time there was damage  in the ground floor room  underneath the 
lounge that Mr G would have mentioned that also and pointed  it out to AAs surveyor  when 
he first inspected. But theres no record of him having done so.
The earliest evidence  Ive seen of any damage to the ground floor is the reference  in the 
leak detection  companys  report to damage  to the ceiling of the ground  floor room when they 
inspected in March  2018.
By the time of AAs surveyors  second  visit in mid-June 2018 repairs to the roof had just 
started. The surveyor reported  that the damage in the front box bedroom and the lounge 
were similar to how it looked  when  inspected in January 2018. He said his damp  meter  
showed that some of the affected  areas  were  wet. He thought this implied that water had 
carried on getting into the property since the original inspection in January. He said since  the 
roof hadnt  been repaired  sooner,  there  might  now be damage within the timber frame cavity.  
He concluded  that the damage to the ground floor room was related to the damage  in the 
rooms above and could have been  prevented.
That seems  reasonable  to me. Everything  points to the water damage happening  gradually 
and it seems likely to me that it spread down from the top floor of Mr and Mrs Gs property to 
the bottom  with the damage to the ground floor happening later than the damage at the top. 
Bearing in mind that water would have carried on getting in through  the roof from January up 
to June 2018, Im not convinced that the damage to the ground floor was caused suddenly  or 
unexpectedly. That means in my opinion this damage doesnt fall within the policy  definition 
of accidental damage and AA didnt treat Mr and Mrs G unfairly in refusing to pay for it.
Ive also looked  at how AA handled the claim. There was some confusion  on AAs part at 
one stage about whether Mr and Mrs G had accidental  damage cover as part of their policy.  
But even when it was saying they didnt  have this cover, AA was still offering to proceed as if 
they were covered. So Mr and Mrs G never had the worry of their claim not being covered 
due to this. I dont think the impact of this mistake  is sufficient to justify  AA paying 
compensation to Mr and Mrs G. 
Ref: DRN65552163Mr H is also unhappy about the way Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  was handled by AA. This 
service can only look at complaints about  activities that are regulated.  That includes claim 
handling. But it doesnt include complaint handling  because thats not a regulated activity in 
itself even though there  are rules governing  it. So Im not able to  and havent   looked at 
AAs handling  of their complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6555216