K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a packaged  bank 
account which it called the Graduate Additions Account (GAA).
background
Ms B changed from a fee free bank account  to a GAA in 2006 following a conversation  with 
Barclays in a branch.
The GAA  provided  a range of benefits including mobile phone  insurance, car breakdown 
cover, cardholder protection and higher interest free overdraft  limits.
Our adjudicator looked at Ms Bs complaint and didnt think  the GAA was mis-sold. Ms B 
disagrees so the case has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Ms Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint and Ill explain  why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Ms B was aware the GAA was optional and whether 
she was given a clear choice in taking  the account.  In her correspondence  with us, Ms B has 
made it clear  that this is her main complaint.
Ms B says she was not told by Barclays that fee free accounts  with overdrafts were available 
and so she didnt  know she could have one. Whilst I dont doubt Ms Bs honest  recollections, 
I think after the years that have elapsed, Ms Bs memory is mistaken. I say this because she 
had previously had a fee free bank  account  with an overdraft with Barclays.  I accept her 
point that this was a student account and that when graduating,  as she was, she could no 
longer have that account.
But I think its more likely  than not that she wouldve been aware  at the time of sale or shortly 
thereafter that fee free accounts with overdrafts were easily available to her from Barclays  
and other  banks and financial  businesses.  I say this because such  accounts  were widely 
advertised; and Ms B had a substantial overdraft at the time so I think its more likely  than 
not that she would have  looked into what was available to minimise her costs before she 
started paying for an account. And if she had taken the GAA and then decided she was 
unhappy with it she could have cancelled her account at any time and changed to a fee free 
one but she didnt and she kept it for many  years.
So I think Ms B was aware in August 2006 she had a choice  and chose to take out the GAA.
Barclays says that it didnt recommend the GAA  or advise Ms B to take it, but Ms B says it 
did. Ive decided to look at this complaint as an advised sale as it is to Ms Bs advantage  and 
doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. So, Barclays needed to provide  Ms B with 
sufficient information  about the GAA to make  an informed  choice.  And in recommending the 
Ref: DRN65514302GAA, it also needed  to take adequate  steps  to ensure that the GAA was a reasonable fit for 
Ms Bs circumstances.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think  the GAA was suitable  for Ms B. 
I say this because  she had a mobile  phone,  she had a car and she had a substantial 
overdraft.
Barclays has provided evidence that she registered for card secure  in 2006 and mobile 
phone cover in 2011.  She used the car breakdown cover extensively. And she used and 
benefited from the higher interest  free overdraft  limit (which was nearly double the overdraft 
limit for a fee free account from Barclays)  for a number of years.
And from what Ms B has said about  her personal circumstances at the time she took out the 
account, there was nothing that would stop her taking advantage of any the GAAs benefits.
So in my view, Ms B knew she had a choice about  the GAA  and decided to take it. And the 
GAA was suitable for Ms B, and there was no information that she wasnt given that would 
have put her off buying it.
So I dont  think she has lost out as result of anything Barclays  may have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6551430