K820x#14complaint
Ms L says St Andrews Insurance plc mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms L bought  the policy in August 2004 a couple  of months  after taking out a mortgage. She 
applied for the PPI policy through  the post.
The policy provided  cover  for Ms L for accident,  sickness, and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £539.25 a month towards  Ms Ls mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £32.68  a month.  
At the time,  Ms L was employed as a production executive. She has told us she was entitled  
to company sick pay but is unable to recall how much that might  have been. She hasnt  told 
us about any redundancy  pay she may have  been  entitled to. However, she says she could 
have used her husbands  (the mortgage  was not on his name) salary  if the need  arose.  Ms L 
has said she had medical conditions at the time of the sale. 
St Andrews  has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage  account closed in 2005.
Ms Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ls representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ls representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Ms L about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms L and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN68570502The information Ms L received was misleading.  These policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ls. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ls complaint.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews. That means  the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like St 
Andrews selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN68570503The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Ms L with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether St Andrews  gave Ms L sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms L and St 
Andrews, Ive decided  not to uphold  Ms Ls complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Ms L know  she had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The PPI was sold some  time after the mortgage account had been opened, so its difficult  to 
see how PPI could  have  been presented as anything other than optional.  I have also seen a 
PPI acceptance form which set out the cost/benefit of the PPI. This shows  that PPI 
wouldnt have been applied to the account unless Ms L signed this form. She also had to 
Ref: DRN68570504complete a separate direct  debit mandate for PPI. I note that she did complete the mandate  
and signed this form. And I havent  seen evidence which  would lead me to conclude that   
Ms L was pressured into taking PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Ms L knew  the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Ms L is silent on this point in her 
PPI questionnaire. Looking at how the PPI was sold  through  a postal application, without 
any apparent involvement from a representative   I think it is highly unlikely that St Andrews 
provided advice.
This means  St Andrews didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms L. Instead, it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms L was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Ms L was unable 
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment). Ive reached this conclusion because 
I think its unlikely Ms L would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy 
was for. The cost of the policy was set out clearly in the acceptance form.   
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before  
Ms L agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think St Andrews gave Ms L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to her attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ls representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ls representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN68570505-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms L has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that St Andrews  ought  to have  done either. 
what effect did St Andrewss shortcomings  have on Ms L? To what extent did Ms L 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Ms L. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms L would have  
still taken out the policy,  had St Andrews done things properly. 
Ms L says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms L had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of Ms L being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms L chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Ms L thought  she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms L has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Ms L was given about  the cost was clear. But the information about other 
aspects of the policy, such as benefit/limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  St Andrews made clear exactly what Ms L would get back in 
return in the event Ms L made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Ms Ls expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did  if anything,  
its more likely than not the policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than she would 
have expected as there  was an additional  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
Ref: DRN68570506The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms L be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  above might well have caused Ms L 
pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms L from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Ms L was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Ms L 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. Although Ms L has told us about  a 
number of medical conditions which she unfortunately suffered from, this particular policy  
didnt exclude  claims for such conditions.  So, I think she had some good reasons to take the 
policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Ms L might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms L 
from taking out the policy,  Ms L, in her circumstances,  still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Ms L had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her job 
or any similar job but also unable to do any job which her experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do, it might have  played into her thinking about what she would 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although given Ms Ls 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover.
St Andrews  may not have told Ms L that any claim she made would be limited  to a 24-month  
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 24 
months was a longer period than Ms L is likely  to have received full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms L would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms L be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
Ref: DRN68570507consequences if Ms L was made redundant, or unable to work  through  accident or disability.  
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms L would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ls representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms L would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms L 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms L in the position she would have been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Ms L compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Ms L thinks St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of St 
Andrews statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why St 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Ms L, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN68570508Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find St Andrews negligently misrepresented  the contract to Ms L and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that St Andrews had been  in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Ms L in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6857050