K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  wants  him to pay for recovery  
costs after he notified it of an incident under the terms of his motor  insurance policy.  He 
wants it to record the incident  as for notification only and cover the recovery  costs.  Mr H is 
represented in this matter by his mother,  Mrs H, a named  driver  on his policy.
background
Mr H was involved in a single car accident and called Advantage. It recovered his car to his 
home. He then decided to scrap his car, not proceed  with the claim and cancel  the policy. 
But he said Advantage then wanted  him to pay the recovery costs after it had earlier  told him 
these would be covered. Advantage  agreed  that it had given incorrect,  confusing and 
conflicting information. It offered Mr H £100  compensation.  But he was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought a claim 
had been made as Advantage had incurred costs. And so she thought that if Mr H wanted to 
cancel the policy,  he could pay the rest of the years premium, and have the claim recorded  
as fault. Or he could  repay Advantage its outlay and have  the claim recorded  as non-fault. 
The investigator initially agreed that Advantage  should  pay Mr H £100 compensation for the 
upset and stress caused by the incorrect information. But Mrs H explained the further 
consequences caused by Advantages incorrect information. And the investigator thought 
Advantage should increase its offer to £250  compensation,  less the recovery  costs. She 
thought it should record the claim as non-fault and record  the policy as cancelled by Mr H at 
the date he requested this with the premium recalculated. She also thought Advantage 
should remove the cancellation  marker  from Mr Hs record  and any adverse information from 
his credit file.
Advantage replied  that no cancellation markers or adverse information  had been  recorded. It 
disagreed that it should pay £250  compensation as Mr H would always  have incurred the 
recovery costs. It asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr H was involved in the incident, he called Advantage,  a claim was recorded and his 
car was recovered. Later in the same day he called Advantage again to say that he would be 
dealing with the matter himself.  He was told the claim could be changed  to for notification 
only. But Advantage  had already incurred  an outlay, so a claim was open. 
Mr H and Mrs H then spent time calling Advantage and spoke to different advisors who gave 
conflicting information. I think this caused  Mr H avoidable upset and frustration. 
Advantage has agreed that it provided  incorrect information to Mr H about  the status of his 
claim on a number of occasions.  It agreed  that Mr H and Mrs H had spent an inordinate  
amount of time in dealing  with the matter.  
Ref: DRN66819012When a business  has made a mistake,  as Advantage  has agreed its done  here,  we expect it 
to restore the consumers position, as far as its possible to do so. What I have to consider is 
what would  likely have happened if Advantage  had given  Mr H clear and concise information  
at the outset and what  has been the impact  of the incorrect information on Mr H.
The incident  occurred two miles from Mr Hs house. He could have arranged  a local recovery 
rather than use his policy. But I cant reasonably hold Advantage responsible for Mr H 
making this decision.  
But I think that if Advantage  had given Mr H the correct information  about the claim when he 
called later the same day he would  have made  a different decision.  I think  its most likely that 
he would  have paid the recovery costs and cancelled the policy.  The claim would have been 
recorded as non-fault and his premiums  would have been recalculated  to pay just for his 
time on cover. 
Mr H would then have  notified his new insurer that he had a non-fault claim. Instead, he told 
the insurer that he had a notification only. Mr H now has the risk of being  found to have 
made a misrepresentation. He also missed the opportunity of shopping around for a cheaper 
policy with the correct information  divulged.  
Advantage has offered Mr H £100  compensation. But I dont think  this goes far enough in the 
circumstances to reflect the impact of its errors  on Mr H. 
I think Advantages level of service  caused Mr H distress and inconvenience that would 
warrant compensation. But I also think it caused  him loss of expectation and further 
inconvenience in having now to sort out the correct cover with his new insurer.  So I agree 
with the investigator  that Advantage should  pay Mr H £250  compensation in total. This is in 
keeping with the level Id award in similar circumstances.
Mr H cancelled the policy so there  are no cancellation markers to be removed. But as there 
is an open claim, I think Mr H should  repay Advantage its £225 outlay for his recovery. The 
claim should then be recorded as non-fault.
To restore Mr Hs position, I also think the cancellation of the policy should be dated from 
when Mr H first requested this, 13 February  2019, and the premium  recalculated  to pay just 
for his time on cover. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to do the following:
1.Pay Mr H £250 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service.
2.Deduct the £225  recovery costs from the £250, pay Mr H the remainder  and record the 
claim as non-fault.
3.Date the policy cancellation from 13 February 2019 and recalculate the premium so that 
Mr H pays just for his time on cover. 
Ref: DRN66819013Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6681901