K820x#14Complaint
Mr A and Mrs H complain  because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has only paid part of a 
claim under their travel insurance policy. 
Background
Mr A and Mrs H were  insured  under  a travel insurance policy  provided  by IPA, which 
renewed in May 2018. 
Unfortunately, Mrs H became ill and they had to cancel a planned holiday.  So, they made  a 
claim to IPA for the costs involved. 
After reviewing the documents submitted, IPA said the claim wasnt  covered because Mrs H 
was awaiting a diagnosis,  surgery,  treatment or investigations at the time the policy  
renewed. When Mrs Hs GP confirmed this related to the removal  of a contraceptive  implant, 
IPA reviewed the claim again. 
IPA then said Mrs H hadnt  told it she was taking prescribed medication for dyspepsia  when 
the policy renewed. IPA said,  if it had known this, it would have charged a higher premium. 
As Mr A and Mrs H had paid 83.32%  of the premium  they should have, IPA said it would pay 
83.32% of their claim.  
Unhappy, Mr A and Mrs H complained  to IPA before bringing their complaint to our service.  
Our investigator didnt  think IPA had acted unfairly  but Mr A and Mrs H didnt agree, so their 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id like to say Im sorry to hear about Mrs Hs illness  and I hope she has made 
a successful recovery. 
Much of Mr A and Mrs Hs correspondence  with our investigator has centred around whether 
they received  a renewal reminder email  from IPA in April 2018, prior to the policy renewing in 
May 2018. I have no way of knowing with certainty  whether this email was sent and/or 
received, so I must  make  a decision based  on what I think is more  likely than not to have 
happened, based on the evidence Ive seen.  
Im satisfied the system screenshots provided  by IPA demonstrate its more likely than not 
that a renewal reminder email was sent and delivered to Mr A and Mrs H on 22 April 2018. 
The policy renewed  on 11 May 2018, which is the date of issue referred to on Mr A and 
Mrs Hs policy schedule, and payment was taken for the policy  on the same  day. The policy 
covered the period 14 May 2018 to 13 May 2019. 
I have no reason to believe IPAs  system  screenshots are inaccurate or that they have been 
falsified or tampered  with. I dont think renewal dates, times and/or documentation from 
Ref: DRN62719012previous or future years are relevant to whether a renewal reminder email was sent for the 
May 2018 policy year.
Under the terms and conditions  relating  to automatic  renewal of annual  multi trip policies, 
IPA was required to contact Mr A and Mrs H at least 21 days before the end of their previous 
period of insurance. Mr A and Mrs Hs previous insurance policy ended on 13 May 2018,  so 
Im satisfied the renewal  reminder email sent on 22 April 2018  gave  them 21 days notice.  
While I understand Mr A and Mr H have no record of receiving the email  on 22 April 2018 
and theyve provided evidence of saved  emails about their insurance policies in support of 
this, I think its more  likely than not that IPA sent them  a renewal reminder  email,  as it was 
required to do. 
The renewal  reminder  email says the policy is not suitable for anyone  who has:
(a) Suffered any medical condition that has required prescribed medication or 
treatment including  surgery, tests  or investigations within the last 5 years
(b) Is awaiting a diagnosis, treatment,  tests or investigations for any medical  
condition, or suffering symptoms that have  not yet been discussed with a doctor.
If either  of the above situations  apply,  please  let us know as your cover  may be 
affected 
Similar wording  is set out in the terms and conditions of Mr A and Mrs Hs policy under the 
heading Important  Conditions relating to health.
When making my decision,  Ive considered  the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). I think this legislation is relevant to the circumstances 
of Mr A and Mrs Hs claim, and I think  its fair and reasonable to apply the principles set out 
in the legislation to this claim. 
CIDRA places a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to misrepresent  facts which  
an insurer has asked about  when a policy is sold or renewed. 
The available medical evidence says Mrs H had a long history  of dyspepsia and was taking 
prescribed medication for the condition twice daily. Ive considered  what Mr A and Mrs H 
have said about  the use of the term dyspepsia as well as what  theyve said about  the 
different medications  available  for the condition. But an insurer  is entitled to decide  what 
level of risk it is willing to insure  and under  this policy, IPA only wishes to insure 
policyholders who havent been  prescribed medication or received treatment for a medical  
condition within the previous 5 years. So, regardless  of how common  dyspepsia might be, 
this was a medical  condition  which  IPA wanted  to know  about.  
While Mrs H might previously have made a claim with IPA relating to her medical condition,  it 
remained her responsibility  to tell IPA about this at renewal.
Because I think Mrs H mispresented facts at renewal, this means IPA is entitled to apply the 
relevant remedy available to it under CIDRA.  
I understand Mr A and Mrs H feel they should only be responsible  for the difference  in 
premium between what they actually paid (£52.58) and the premium IPA has evidenced it 
would have charged if it had known about Mrs Hs dyspepsia (£63.10). 
Ref: DRN62719013However, CIDRA says,  in this situation,  IPA is entitled to reduce proportionately the amount 
to be paid on the claim. This has been calculated as 83.32%  in accordance  with the formula 
set out under CIDRA (£52.58/£63.10 x 100).  
So, I dont think IPA has been unfair  or unreasonable  by paying only this percentage of Mr A 
and Mrs Hs claim. In circumstances such as this, CIDRA is intended to give the insurer a 
remedy in the event of a misrepresentation, so Mr A and Mrs H are still responsible for 
paying the full amount of their policy excess.
As is common with most insurance policies, under Mr A and Mrs Hs policy  the costs of 
providing evidence  such as medical  certificates required in support of a claim is at the 
policyholders own expense. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A and Mrs H but I wont be directing IPA to do anything  further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 August 2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6271901