K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a number of 
packaged bank  accounts. His account history is as follows:
First Additions  account taken out in November 2004
Upgraded to an Additions  Plus account  in September 2006
Changed to a First Additions account  in December 2006
Upgraded to Premier  Life in June 2008
background
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service Barclays upheld  the sale of the Additions 
Plus account  and refunded the account fees with interest in line with our approach so we 
have not looked into this upgrade.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the remaining upgrades and they did not think  that they 
were mis-sold. Mr M did not agree  with this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ms complaint. Ive carefully thought about everything Ive seen on this 
complaint.
And having done so, I dont think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.  Id like to explain the 
reasons why. Ive started by thinking about  whether Mr M was given a clear choice in taking 
the accounts. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened, having weighed  up what  Mr M and 
Barclays have been able to provide me with.
In this instance Mr M has said that he upgraded his account on all three occasions in order 
to increase his overdraft  facility. But I cant see that Mr M increased his overdraft around  the 
time of any of the upgrades. Mr M has also said that he took out these accounts  in order to 
reduce his overdraft  fees and I can see that these accounts did come  with interest free 
portions of overdrafts  with preferential rates above the interest  free parts.  So if Mr M did take 
out these accounts to get this benefit,  then this is what he received. And I can see why he 
might have been motivated to upgrade. So overall I think  that Mr M took out the accounts in 
order to get benefits that these accounts  came with rather than him taking out the accounts  
to increase or get an overdraft.
Mr M has also said that he was told that he needed to take out the Premier Life account  in 
order to get a mortgage, I am surprised that this was not mentioned  in his initial  complaint  to 
this service or in the complaint letters he sent to Barclays and in fact that this was only 
mentioned after the adjudicator had issued her assessment. I have considered  this carefully  
but I find it unlikely  that this was the reason that the Premier Life account was taken out 
especially as I cant see that Mr M ever took out or even applied  for a mortgage  with 
Barclays.
Ref: DRN64635862Overall I think  that it is more likely than not that Mr M was given a fair choice when  taking out 
these accounts.
The First Additions accounts
For these sales Barclays made a personal recommendation. This means that Barclays had 
to ensure that the accounts were a reasonable fit for Mr Ms circumstances at the time they 
were sold.  In this instance the main benefits of these accounts  were mobile phone insurance 
and the preferential overdraft benefits that I have already mentioned  above.  Mr M 
extensively used  his overdraft and this benefit wouldve saved Mr M money on his overdraft 
interest compared to what wouldve happened if he held the overdraft on a fee free account.  
In addition to this Mr M has said that he had his own mobile phone insurance which 
suggests that saw a need in insuring  his mobile  handsets and I cant see why he couldnt 
have cancelled this insurance and used  the insurance that came  with the account if he 
wished to do so. Overall then I think that Barclays recommending  this account to Mr M on 
two occasions  was not unreasonable.
The Premier Life account
Mr M has said that this account was recommended  to him, Barclays says that no personal  
recommendation was made. I should  explain at this point that recommended in this context 
would mean  that Barclays said that this account  would  be suitable for him based on his 
personal circumstances at the time of the sale. Mr M has not said that there was any 
discussion of this. So I do not think that it is likely that a recommendation was made. So 
given this Barclays did not have to ensure that the account was right for him. It did though  
have to give Mr M enough information  to allow him to do this for himself.
In this instance the Premier Life account  when taken out came with, amongst other things, 
Travel insurance, Airport lounge access, Breakdown cover, Home Emergency cover, Mobile 
phone insurance  and an £1000 interest free overdraft  with a preferential  interest  rate.
From what  I can see Mr M did drive,  did have a mobile phone, extensively used his 
overdraft, travelled and registered to use the airport  lounges.  So I think that he couldve used 
most of the benefits that the account  came with.
I accept that for all of these accounts  Mr M may not have been told everything  about all of 
the benefits that they came with, but I cant see anything specific  that he was not told that I 
think wouldve altered  his decision to agree to any of these upgrades.
I understand that with hindsight Mr M may regret his decision to agree to these upgrades  
and that he now may believe that they did not represent value for money. But ultimately I 
think that he agreed to these upgrades  knowing that he did not have to while  having a good 
understanding of what  benefits that the came with. So I dont think that these accounts  were 
mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint
Ref: DRN64635863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6463586