K820x#14Complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a Gold packaged bank account.
Background
Mr Bs account history is as follows:
October 2006:  opened  as a Gold account,
February 2011:  changed to a fee-free account. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think the Gold  account  had been mis-sold. 
Mr B disagreed with this, so the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds mis sold the Gold account.  Ill explain why.
Mr B doesnt  dispute that he chose to have  a packaged account, his complaint  centres  
around the information he was given at the time of the sale.  So, there isnt a disagreement 
about whether  Mr B actively  chose to take out the account. And I can see that Mr B 
previously held fee-free  accounts with other providers, so I think  its more likely he knew he 
had the option to have  a fee-free account  if he wanted to.
Lloyds has said that it recommended  the account  to Mr B. This means  it had to make sure 
that it was suitable for him based on his circumstances at the time. At the time of the sale the 
main benefits included, worldwide travel  insurance,  breakdown cover, mobile  phone  
insurance and card protection, amongst others.  And the contact notes from the time of the 
sale say the account was recommended for the travel insurance, breakdown cover and 
mobile phone insurance.  
Mr B has said that at the time of the sale, he drove a car, went on holiday a few times a year 
and had a smartphone. So, I think that the recommendation for the Gold account was 
suitable based on his circumstances at the time. And I can see Lloyds completed a 
document for each product called a your  personal  summary and recommendations 
(YPSOR) document. Looking at these, I can see a need was identified  for each of the 
benefits. In addition to this, the Gold account  was the cheapest packaged account at the 
time to provide  all these  benefits. So, I think Lloyds recommended the most appropriate 
account for Mr B at that time. 
Lloyds also had to give Mr B enough information about the account so he could make sure it 
was right for him. Mr B has said Lloyds didnt  tell him he would have to declare his pre-
existing medical condition (PEMC) to the travel insurance company and that he may have to 
pay an additional premium for this. As mentioned above, a YPSOR  documents  was created  
for each  benefit.  Looking  at the YSPOR for the travel insurance, it says the advisor 
explained that PEMCs would need to be declared directly with the insurer.  
Ref: DRN62560502I do appreciate Mr Bs comments,  but I also must keep in mind  that the packaged account 
was sold around  13 years ago, and that memories can fade over time. But the document that 
was created at the time of the sale makes  me think its more  likely Lloyds did make  Mr B 
aware that PEMCs had to be declared.  In addition to this, having looked  at the policy  
document relevant to Mr Bs travel insurance  policy, I can see his specific  PEMC was 
automatically covered  under the policy and wouldnt have to be declared.  So even if there 
had been an information failing on that point, I dont think it would have made a difference  to 
the outcome of the complaint.
Mr B has also said that his car wouldnt have been covered under the breakdown  cover  
because it was over ten years old. Having looked through  the relevant policy document, 
there are no specific exclusions based  on the age of the vehicle. So, I dont think this 
wouldve affected his decision  to take out the account. 
In general, I think its more likely that Lloyds  would have told Mr B about  the benefits  on the 
account seeing as it was trying to make the account  sound attractive  to him. As mentioned 
above, I see no reason  why Mr W couldnt have used the benefits, so I dont think  better  
information about the account would have made him change  his mind about  taking  it out.
Having considered everything  available to me, I think its more  likely Mr B was given a fair 
choice to take the account and that it was suitable for him overall.  And I think Lloyds  gave 
him enough information for Mr B to make sure he wanted it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6256050