K821x#15complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the way Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant)  handled a 
claim she made under her gadget insurance  policy.
background
Ms Cs laptop was accidentally dropped and damaged. So, she contacted Assurant to make 
a claim under her gadget insurance  policy. Assurant considered Ms Cs claim and accepted 
it. It explained Ms Cs device would need  to be collected for repair.  And Ms C would need to 
complete a repair centre note, to explain the problems  she was experiencing with the laptop 
since it had been  dropped.
Ms C completed this note and explained that there  were problems with the keyboard and 
disc drive, as well as with a USB port, charging  port and a charging/battery fault. Assurants 
repair centre received  the laptop,  and completed  a repair.  However, just over three  weeks 
later Ms C contacted Assurant again, and explained  the device was still faulty   there  were  
problems with the disc drive  and speakers. 
Because of this, Assurant agreed  to attempt a second repair.  This second repair attempt 
wasnt successful. Assurant said this was because Ms Cs laptop was password  protected, 
so it couldnt properly access the item to complete tests on it. Because Ms C was dissatisfied 
that a full repair still hadnt been  completed Assurant  agreed for Ms C to get her own 
quotation for the repair with a third party expert.  Ms C did this, and got her laptop repaired 
with the third party. Assurant paid for the invoices in relation to this repair   totalling an 
amount of £210.  But Ms C remained concerned about the service she had received  from 
Assurant in this respect.
Ms C also explained  she experienced  additional  problems during her claim. She said that 
she had initially been told to package her laptop for collection  by a courier. But, when the 
courier arrived they had a specialist box to transport  her laptop, and she was asked to 
remove the packaging she had originally been  told to use. Following this, on further visits by 
the same  courier Ms C said she was given  different  information. She said the courier arrived 
without a box, but because she was expecting the driver to arrive with one she hadnt 
packaged the item. So this led to additional  problems because  the driver  refused  to take the 
laptop with him.
Assurant considered Ms Cs complaint and upheld  it. It said its agent didnt monitor  the 
repair to Ms Cs laptop, and it apologised that Ms Cs laptop  was still faulty after the initial 
repair  it said it hadnt conducted a full quality check because the laptop was locked by a 
password. And it apologised  that this also happened  when it completed a second repair. 
Assurant also said sorry for the problems  Ms C had experienced  with the courier it had used 
to collect the laptop  and it accepted Ms C had been  given contradictory  information in this 
respect.
Assurant offered Ms C a refund of the £75 excess she had paid as compensation, as well as 
an additional  £25 for her laptop being faulty after the second  repair. And as above, it paid for 
the costs Ms C had incurred by using a third party to repair  her laptop.
Ref: DRN61329032Ms C didnt think Assurants offer was fair. She said she shouldnt have had to pay an 
excess in any event,  because Assurant didnt properly repair her laptop. And she said £25 
was not enough to reflect the inconvenience she had experienced. So, Ms C referred  her 
complaint to this service  for an independent  review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that 
Ms C would have needed  to pay her excess,  because Assurant did accept the claim and pay 
for the repairs. So, he was satisfied with Assurants position that refunding the excess as 
compensation was fair. But, he felt the £100 in total Assurant had already offered wasnt 
sufficient to compensate  Ms C for the inconvenience she had experienced. Our investigator  
recommended an additional £100 be paid to Ms C  so the total compensation amount paid 
to her was £200.
Ms C agreed with our investigators opinion. Assurant didnt agree. It explained it thought the 
£100 compensation offered to Ms C was fair and reasonable. And it said;
electronic devices are at risk of faults,  and that it provided a 90 day warranty on 
Ms Cs laptop because of this. It noted  that whilst  Ms Cs laptop developed  a further 
fault after the initial repair, this was not until three  weeks  after the item was returned 
to her. 
it hadnt been able to complete quality checks on Ms Cs laptop because it was 
password protected when it was received, despite Ms C being advised to restore the 
laptop to factory  settings. 
Ms C chose  to have her laptop  repaired through a third party,  and it would have 
collected the item to complete a third repair.
Ms C had been told to package  her item,  so when the courier  attempted to collect  the 
item for the second repair it couldnt do so. It said it had been  Ms Cs choice not to 
package the item.
Because Assurant  didnt  agree this complaint  has been referred  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Assurant has accepted that Ms C had a valid claim  and it has settled this by paying £210 
to Ms C for the repairs to her laptop.  As the claim has been accepted and settled I havent 
needed to consider the outcome of the claim.  But, Ms C is concerned  with the way her claim 
was handled,  and the amount of compensation offered to her in respect of the trouble and 
upset she experienced. So, Ive needed to consider whether the compensation offered to 
Ms C  this being £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about this, and I dont think it is. I think an amount of £200 
compensation in total more fairly recognises the upset  and inconvenience  Ms C 
experienced. So, Im satisfied this is what Assurant should pay to Ms C.
Ref: DRN61329033Its clear that there were some problems with the handling of Ms Cs claim.  Assurant  did 
initially agree  this was the case. Ms Cs laptop was sent to Assurant for an initial repair,  but 
three weeks later some  of the faults  Ms C had previously raised  the problem with the USB 
port and issue with charging the laptop,  returned again. 
I appreciate that Assurant  provided  a warranty in case of further  faults, and that it worked  to 
resolve the problems  on a second  repair attempt. But, the second repair attempt wasnt 
successful. And I think Assurant could have  done more here to ensure  the problem was 
resolved. Assurant has confirmed it didnt complete the necessary quality checks on Ms Cs 
laptop, and that it wasnt  able to fully test it, because it was locked with a password. I accept 
that Assurants initial  letter  to Ms C told her she needed to restore her laptop back  to factory  
settings. And that if Ms C had done  this, there  would  have been no password for Assurant to 
overcome.  
But, I cant see this problem was explained to Ms C either when Ms Cs laptop was sent 
back to her after the first repair, or the second. Or that she was told a full check  hadnt been  
completed. I would have  expected Assurant  to let Ms C know  it hadnt been able to fully 
complete the work it needed to when it returned  Ms Cs laptop to her the first time. And I 
think this poor communication delayed the problem with Ms Cs laptop  being resolved. 
Ms C did also experience problems with the delivery of her items. Neither party  disputes  that 
Ms C was told to package her laptop before it was collected for the first time.  But when the 
courier arrived he told her to unpack it and the laptop was placed  in a protective box. So, 
when Ms C arranged  to return her laptop  for a second time I can see why she didnt package  
it again. Her previous experience suggested this was the wrong thing to do. I think it was 
reasonable of Ms C to expect the courier to arrive with another box, seeing as it was the 
same courier  company collecting the laptop. Because the item wasnt packaged the courier 
company wouldnt  accept collection of the item.  I can appreciate  how this would have been 
frustrating to Ms C. 
Assurant said Ms C could have sent the laptop  to it for a third time for the problem to be 
resolved. But Assurant did agree for Ms C to use a third party  to resolve  the matter. And I 
can understand why Ms C may have  been reluctant to use Assurants experts again, given 
the problems with collection and communication she had previously experienced. I think  
needing to seek  the advice of an expert  to complete  the necessary repairs  would have  been  
inconvenient to Ms C too. 
In light of the above, I think  £200 compensation in total is fair and reasonable compensation 
for the upset and inconvenience the above issues caused Ms C.
Ref: DRN61329034my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance Limited 
to;
Pay Ms C an additional £100 compensation.
Assurant General Insurance Limited should  do this within 28 days  of us telling  it Ms C 
accepted my final decision. If it pays it later than this it should  add interest to the 
compensation at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my decision to the date it 
makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
1 If Assurant General Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Ms C a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6132903