K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Credit  LLC,  previously  Lending Stream,  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.  
background
Lending Stream gave  Mr S four instalment loans between May 2012 and October 2012. The 
loans were repayable  in monthly instalments. Mr S repaid loans one and two. Loans three 
and four remain outstanding. A summary  of Mr Ss lending with Lending Stream  is as 
follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedno. of monthly  
repayments
at outsetdate repaid
11 May 2012 215 6 19 October 2012
211 July 2012 115 5 21 November 21012
323 August 2012 215 6 
422 October 2012 315 6 
Mr S says that these  loans made  his financial position worse. He wants  a refund of interest 
and charges, with interest and compensation for his stress and inconvenience. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Ss complaint. He didnt  think  that Lending  Steam had 
lent to Mr S irresponsibly.  So, he didnt  ask the business to do anything further. 
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said:
Lending Stream gave  him another loan before hed repaid a previous loan. 
He owed other payday lenders  at the relevant time.
Lending Stream should clear his arrears.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
Ref: DRN62037662the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mr S could sustainably  repay  his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. Of course,  the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the Office of Fair Trading Irresponsible  Lending 
guidance defines sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and in particular, 
the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it follows  
that a lender should realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont  
be able to make their repayments  sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without  borrowing  further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having  done  so, I agree with the 
adjudicator that Lending  Stream  didnt act unfairly  here. Ill explain why.
In relation to loans  one to three, given the loan amounts, the level of repayments and what  
was apparent about Mr  Ss circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Lending  Stream  to ask Mr S for the amount of information needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information  Mr S provided  or the 
information Lending Stream shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate for it start verifying what Mr S was saying about his finances.  
In relation to loan four, I think that Lending  Stream shouldve taken steps to build a more  
detailed picture  of Mr Ss financial  situation.  But I havent seen anything  in the information 
provided which suggests that would have led to the conclusion  that Mr S wouldnt have been 
able to sustainably  make the repayments for that loan. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Ss lending  history with Lending Stream. I dont 
think that it indicates that Lending Stream should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint. 
Ref: DRN62037663my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6203766