K822xComplaint
Ms C has complained that Red Sands  Insurance  Company (Europe) Limited  has unfairly
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy.
Background
Ms C took out a lifetime pet insurance policy over the internet in 2016. The policy  is 
underwritten by Red Sands.
At renewal in 2018 the premium Ms C was offered had increased by nearly four times the 
amount she had been paying  from £53.79 to £209.53 a month.  Mrs C complained  and 
says she recognises she had made some claims on the policy, but the size of the increase is 
unfair and unjust.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Cs policy is too high, she 
should have been charged  less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the 
future.
While Ms Cs premium  has seen  a significant  increase,  I havent  seen any evidence  to
suggest Red Sands has treated her differently to how it would have  treated  any other
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say Red Sands has singled her out and treated 
her unfairly compared to its other  customers or that they should charge her a lower premium 
going forwards.
I know this will be disappointing to Ms C, as that was the outcome she had been  hoping for.
I understand this situation has caused  Ms C a significant amount of upset as, due to the age 
of her pet and the medical conditions  it now has, she cant find equivalent cover elsewhere. 
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered. 
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Ms C took out, will continue to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Red Sands  should  have  made these longer-term  cost implications  clear  to Ms C before she
took out the policy, particularly when the policy was being marketed as lifetime insurance.
She needed this information to properly understand what it was she was buying and so she
Ref: DRN65086772could make an informed  choice. But, having  looked  at the information Red Sands  gave
Ms C about  the policy at the sale, I dont think it made this clear  to her.
The policy was sold on the internet  and the screen  shots of what Mc C would have seen are 
no longer available, so I dont know what Ms C was presented with at the time. Ive seen a 
copy of the terms and conditions of the policy and these do say that the cost of the policy 
could change. But I think its very unlikely  this term would have been sufficiently highlighted 
to Ms C and she wouldve  had to read through several pages of closely  worded text to
see it. And in any event, I dont think the long-term risk that the cost of the policy  could rise
significantly is made clear.
So I dont  think Red Sands gave Ms C clear enough  information about the policy.
Where I find something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely to have happened  if it
hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost out.
Ms C chose to take out pet insurance,  so she wanted some type of cover for her dog. And,
as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in the greater level
of cover it provided. If Ms C hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either  had no cover
at all, and would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced  level of
cover, where she would still have found herself  in a situation where  her pets  conditions  were
no longer covered. So I think  its likely  she would still have gone ahead  with the lifetime
policy, even if shed  known the premium could  increase significantly in the future.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Ms C wasnt  so
shocked or upset  when  the cost increased  significantly   instead this would have  been
something she was expecting to happen.
Ms C clearly  wasnt  expecting the premium  to increase by as much  as it did and she was
shocked and upset when she saw how much  it had. Shes unable  to change insurers  without
losing cover for any pre-existing conditions. So she has to make  the difficult  decision about
whether to carry on with the policy and pay a premium thats  much  more than she ever
expected to pay, or cancel it and lose this cover - this isnt a position she expected  to find
herself in. Better  information about  the policy wouldve meant  that she could  have been  more
prepared for the possibility that she might not be able to afford to continue  with the policy
and that her pet might lose cover for any ongoing  and existing medical conditions.
Ms C has benefitted from this policy. But any award  I make isnt to compensate  Ms C for
financial loss. Its aboutthe impact that the lack of clear information provided  by Red Sands  
has had on Ms C, both practically  and emotionally.  I think this lack of clear information  has 
caused Ms C significant trouble and upset.  So I think it would be fair for Red Sands to pay 
her £1,000 as compensation  for this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  should pay Ms C £1,000 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept
or reject this decision before 8 May 2020.
Ref: DRN65086773Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6508677