K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Evolution Insurance Company Limited.  He isnt happy that its 
agent turned  down  a claim under his motor breakdown insurance policy.
background
Mr Hs car broke down and he wanted to use his breakdown cover so he called Evolutions 
agent for assistance.  It turned  down the claim as it said Mr Hs car wasnt  completely 
immobile, and its policy didnt provide cover in these circumstances.
Mr H did try to move  his car again  but was advised by the dealership that to move it again 
would cause a lot of further  damage if the problem wasnt fully diagnosed.  A number of 
engine warning lights were on his car. So Mr H had to take out cover with another 
breakdown specialist in order to get his car recovered and repaired.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and upheld it. He thought  Evolutions agent  
hadnt acted fairly in turning down  the claim. He asked it to refund the cost of the policy as 
Mr H hadnt had any benefit from it. And said that Mr H should be awarded £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Evolutions agent didnt agree. It felt the contract excluded  cover in these circumstances as 
the car wasnt completely immobile. So the matter  has been passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
I know Evolutions agent strongly  believes  that only the contract  term can be considered 
when looking at this complaint and Mr Hs claim. But this service  has always  looked at 
complaints on an individual case by case basis and in a fair and reasonable way. If it is felt 
something isnt fair, then we will look to consider  the reasonableness  of the actions taken 
and decisions made.
In this instance Mr H called to say his car had broken down and it wasnt driveable. It is clear  
from the call that the car wasnt driveable  even  if it was possible the car was moveable, but I 
cant be sure from the call alone.  Evolutions  agent says the policy defines breakdown  as an 
electrical or mechanical  failure which immediately renders the vehicle immobile. 
So while technically  using the most favourable interpretation for Evolution and one which  
clearly suited them, Mr Hs car may not have been  completely mobile.  But I dont think 
Evolution applied  the policy terms in a fair and reasonable way. I say this because while 
Mr Hs car may have been moveable,  I dont think  that means it was what most people  would 
describe as mobile. 
Plus, it clearly wasnt safe or sensible to drive the car and to do so would have caused 
further damage and potential  danger  to other road users. Mr H described  the car as having 
lost power and juddering so he was concerned for his own and other road users safety. And 
Mr H isnt a mechanic and thats why he had the breakdown policy in place. 
Ref: DRN60108102I dont think it is fair to ask Mr H to interpret  whether his car was mobile or not. And the call 
taker simply ran the detail provided  through a computer database in deciding whether the 
car was mobile which isnt particularly persuasive.  In order to confirm whether the car was 
mobile Evolution would  have had to get the car inspected by a recovery  agent  as opposed to 
rely on a lay persons description. 
So, when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im satisfied  the 
car was what most people  would consider immobile when contacting a roadside assistance  
provider. The sort of problem Mr H experienced is exactly the sort of problem people  buy a 
roadside assistance policy to protect them against. And I find it very surprising indeed  that 
Evolution thinks its approach was reasonable. 
I know Mr H feels  he should get his new policy premium covered. But as explained by the 
investigator he has had the benefit of this new policy since he took out cover  and so it 
wouldnt be fair on Evolution to pay for this. Although  I do accept Mr H couldnt  shop around 
as much as hed like to at that point in time, I think Evolution refunding  the premium paid (as 
he couldnt use the Evolution  policy)  feels fair. 
As such,  I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Evolution  to refund the cost of Mr Hs policy (plus  8% simple interest for the time 
hes been without  the money). And pay £100  compensation  for the clear  inconvenience 
caused. I say this as Mr H had the hassle and worry of making  alternative  arrangements,  
when he thought hed be able to rely on the roadside assistance  cover hed bought.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Evolution 
Insurance Company Limited  to refund Mr Hs policy costs plus 8% simple interest from the 
time of claim until the date of settlement. And pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6010810