K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as TSB) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M bought a MPPI policy which started in November 1998 to protect  their 
mortgage repayments. The policy was added during a meeting with an advisor from Lloyds.  
Mr and Mrs M were  both covered  against  accidents, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs M applied for 3 further  advances in December 1998,  April 2002 and October 
2003 and amended their MPPI  policy  to reflect the change in repayment amount.  The policy 
and mortgage  ended  in 2004.
Mr and Mrs M believe Lloyds mis-sold the policy. They say they were not aware MPPI was 
an optional product.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs M dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  because  of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how or if the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs M during the meeting 
and a lot of time has passed since they were sold it. Ive looked  at what  they said about 
how the policy was sold  including that they say they were not aware it was optional.  
But I think,  after considering the documentation provided and what I know of how Lloyds  
sold policies  at that time, it is most  likely that they were advised it was a good idea to 
have the insurance to protect their mortgage repayments, and they took it on that 
advice.
I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I can see on the mortgage application form 
that a box is ticked  agreeing to the MPPI policy. The benefit was also split between     
Mr and Mrs M. This would suggest to me that a conversation was had between the 
advisor and Mr and Mrs M regarding the cover and Mr and Mrs M then chose it by 
signing the application form. So although  it is possible the sale took place as                
Mr and Mrs M recollect, I have not seen  enough  information  to support what  they say so 
that I can safely  conclude anything other  than they were given a choice to have the 
policy.
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M, but it doesnt look 
as if it was unsuitable for them  based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. Mr and Mrs M didnt have enough provisions that I can see at the time of sale that 
would have  meant they wouldnt  have  had at least  some use of the benefit offered by 
Ref: DRN64540412having the cover (They  both say they would have relied on statutory sick pay).  I can also 
see no other reasons  such  as a significant  or restrictive term that would make the policy  
unsuitable.
Im unsure as to whether Lloyds clearly disclosed the costs of the policy  to                   
Mr and Mrs M. But even if it did, I dont  think  it wouldve  have changed Mr and Mrs Ms 
decision to have  the policy for the reasons I have already given.  It was reasonably  
priced compared to similar policies available at the time and to the monthly  mortgage  
repayment. And Mr and Mrs M could have  cancelled the MPPI if it did become 
unaffordable.
I consider that the policy provided  Mr and Mrs M with a useful additional benefit for a 
reasonable cost to protect their home  in the event that it was necessary for them  to 
make a claim.  Its possible  Lloyds didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely  Mr and Mrs M wouldve been affected by any of these based on their 
circumstances at the time.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but on balance,  I do not uphold 
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6454041