complaint
The term of Mr and Mrs Ps interest-only  mortgage has expired. Theyre  unhappy that 
Mortgage Express Limited hasnt given them further  time to sell the commercial part of their 
property.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out their Mortgage  Express interest-only mortgage in March 1990. The 
term expired in March  2015, but the loan hasnt been repaid. The mortgaged  property 
comprises a vacant shop  downstairs, with Mr and Mrs Ps residential  dwelling above. 
Theyre still paying only the interest.
On 27 December 2018 Mortgage  Express wrote  to Mr and Mrs P. It referred  to letters  it had 
sent saying the term was due to expire,  and phone calls it had attempted  to make to discuss  
the situation and try to find a solution. It had spoken  to Mr P on 9 November 2018.  He had 
said the shop  had been on the market for some time with no offers, and attempts to re-
mortgage, including equity release, had been unsuccessful.  Mortgage  Express formally 
demanded repayment of the loan failing which possession proceedings would be 
commenced.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Mortgage  Express that it could extend the term if it wanted to. It 
replied that throughout 2015 and 2016 it had been informed that Mr and Mrs P were in the 
process of splitting the title, but there was no confirmation that this had been done. The shop 
had been placed on the market and Mortgage Express had granted a period  of grace which  
it had later extended. 
In a telephone call on 28 January 2019  Mr and Mrs P had discussed extending the term and 
converting to a repayment mortgage  but it was established that these options were  
inappropriate. If the term of the mortgage were extended and converted  to repayment, the 
monthly payments  would increase considerably which would be difficult  to maintain.
Mortgage Express didnt  think it had acted inappropriately in requesting evidence of a 
practical repayment plan to redeem the mortgage. It was over four years  since the term had 
expired and Mortgage Express had allowed Mr and Mrs P enough time to sell their property 
or propose  a viable solution to clear  the outstanding balance. If Mr and Mrs P were  able to 
provide a tangible repayment plan it would be happy  to consider any further  options.
Mr and Mrs P then brought  their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  guidelines required a lender to 
act fairly by taking the borrowers  individual  circumstances into consideration. If there is no 
money to repay a debt, and all other  options have been considered, a lender ought to allow  
enough time for the property to be sold. For example, a period of six months to one and half 
years extra  time might  be considered reasonable.
Given Mr and Mrs Ps complex situation Mortgage Express  had allowed  a period of nearly 
five years for the loan to be repaid. So the investigator didnt find Mortgage  Express had 
acted unreasonably. It also needed  to make sure it was acting in Mr and Mrs Ps best 
interests. A term extension  on an interest-only  basis might be in their best interests if their 
financial situation once  the term expired was likely to be significantly different,  for example 
with an investment maturing.
Ref: DRN64240482But if they were relying on sale of the property to repay the loan, there could be longer-term 
consequences of delaying the mortgage redemption.  For example,  an unforeseen change in 
the housing market or some other factor  affecting  their ability  to sell. So apart  from buying  
some more time, the investigator didnt  think  an extension to the mortgage  term on an 
interest-only basis would be in Mr and Mrs Ps best interests.
However, in the absence  of any likely  changes  to Mr and Mrs Ps situation,  the investigator  
thought Mortgage Express had given  a reasonable amount of time for the loan to be repaid.
Mr and Mrs P asked  for an ombudsman to look at the case  and said they were also 
exploring other possible solutions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2013, the FCA issued  guidance: Dealing fairly with interest-only  mortgage customers who 
risk being  unable to repay their loan. This set out expectations that firms should act in 
accordance with Principle 6 to achieve a fair outcome for their interest-only mortgage  
customers. Principle  6 is that a lender must  pay due regard to the interests  of its customers 
and treat them fairly. The guidance said:
Under Principle 6, we would expect to see firms proceed with repossession  action as a last 
resort and only after the customers circumstances have been  assessed and all available 
options considered.  As such, firms should  be able to demonstrate they have tried to discuss  
and agree alternatives to repossession and have given customers enough time to make 
alternative arrangements.
So borrowers should be given enough  time to consider  their options and discuss  them with 
the lender, recognising that repossession  is a last resort. But nothing  in the guidance says 
that lenders are required to extend the term  its an option that should  be considered, but 
not a requirement.
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us by way of a phone  call from Mr P on 
28 May 2019. He said he was unhappy  that Mortgage  Express wasnt granting a further 
extension, and that hed like to be allowed a further  6-12 months to sell the property. 
However because  of the time which has elapsed since  then, Mr and Mrs P have  in fact 
already had even  longer than this - a further 13-14 months. Its now over five years since the 
mortgage term expired,  and Mortgage  Express cant be accused of acting with unfair haste.
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs Ps selling  agent  had an interested  party for the shop, who hoped  
to be back in touch  when the coronavirus problem  was under control, but Im not aware 
that anything further has been  heard.
Save as set out below, in these circumstances  I dont think I can fairly require Mortgage 
Express to further defer the process of realising its security.  It hasnt acted with undue haste 
in seeking to do that, and it hasnt failed to give fair and reasonable consideration to 
Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances.
Ref: DRN64240483Nor would it be in Mr and Mrs Ps interests to do so. Theres  no reason to suppose that 
allowing further  time will lead to any improvement in their position.  Their ages (70 and 65 this 
year) and Mr Ps health problems, which  he has documented, are against them. A knee 
replacement operation has been postponed and he has no idea when it may be 
rescheduled. Their  ability  to manage  this situation will get worse, not better, over time. A 
further deferral  would  only really be in their best interests if it would allow  them to realise 
some plan to repay the capital.
There is one proviso  to make. Mr and Mrs Ps difficulties in repaying their loan are of long 
standing and arent due to the coronavirus pandemic. Nevertheless the FCAs Mortgages 
and coronavirus:  updated guidance says that lenders shouldnt commence repossession  
proceedings against customers before 31 October 2020, given the unprecedented 
uncertainty and upheaval  they face,  and government advice on social distancing and self-
isolation. 
Mortgage Express will of course  comply with that guidance and theres  no need for me to 
order it to do so. Wed  also expect it to take into account any future change to the guidance. 
This will allow the interested  party  to pursue their enquiry about the shop if they are still 
interested. 
In the circumstances I dont think Mortgage  Express has done anything wrong here and I 
dont consider it appropriate to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6424048