K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint concerns a whole of life policy sold through  a predecessor business  of Sun 
Life Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited. He says he was led to believe that the 
policy premiums would only rise as a result of the level of cover being indexed   rising in 
line with inflation   so hes unhappy that a recent performance review  of the policy  has 
resulted in the need for a significant  increase in premiums.  
 
background
In 1995 Mr A was an adviser for the predecessor business and effectively  sold the policy  to 
himself. He says that, despite this, he wasnt aware the policy  would work  in the way it has 
because the review mechanism wasnt explained  as part of his training. Instead,  he was led 
to believe that it was a simply the case that this type of policy was sensible to take out at a 
young age  he was 27 at the time  because doing  so would ensure the indexed  cover 
could be maintained throughout his lifetime.
Sun Life didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It was satisfied the policy was a suitable means by 
which to provide the cover that he clearly  had a need for. And, further, that as a trained 
adviser he ought reasonably to have been  aware  of how the policy  would work.      
Our investigator reached the same  conclusion as Sun Life. She explained  we wouldnt look 
directly at the quality  of the training provided to Mr A, as it didnt constitute a regulated  
activity. But looking at the suitability of the policy it appeared to be a reasonable way to 
provide Mr A with cover. And, training aside, the fact that the policy was reviewable and how 
that mechanism  worked  had been  clearly set out in the policy documentation.  
As Mr A didnt agree,  the matters been  referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Looking at the general suitability of the policy  for Mr A, it appears to have provided cover that 
he wouldve wanted  and that wouldve been beneficial to him. I note that at the time of the 
sale he was single with no dependents, so theres an argument  that he may not have had a 
pressing been  for life cover. But the policy  also provided critical illness and income 
protection  elements that I think would potentially have been  useful  for him.  
Further, Mr A maintained the policy for more than 30 years, paying increasing premiums  to 
reflect the indexation rises in the level of cover. During this period he also made a number of 
amendments to the policy, in line with various life changes  all of which  suggests a 
continued need for the cover. 
In respect of the review in 2018 that prompted Mr A to complain about the policy,  despite 
what hes said about the apparent failings of his training, I think  its reasonable to conclude 
that he shouldve  been aware  of how the policy worked.  
While acknowledging his recollections, I think more likely than not trained advisers would  
have been made aware of the policy reviews and potential consequences. But in any event, 
Ref: DRN65191302the documentation from the time of the sale was very clear  on this point. For instance,  it was 
stated that the policy could  be continued indefinitely provided  the appropriate level of 
contributions is paid in line with any future plan reviews.  
Sun Life appear to have  administered the policy correctly, in line with the terms, reviewing it 
a number of times over the years   including in 2013  when it was explained that it was likely 
that premiums would only support the ongoing cover for another  five years.
So, in all the circumstances,  I cant see how I can reasonably conclude  that Sun Life has 
done anything  wrong.    
my final decision
For reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6519130