K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit  card.
background
In 2005, Ms M took out a credit card with RBS. At the same  time, she was sold PPI to 
protect the repayments  on her card if she wasnt able to work because  of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
In 2018 Ms M complained  to RBS that the PPI had been mis-sold. RBS didnt uphold her 
complaint about  the mis-sale. But it said she may have paid some unfair commission  and 
offered to pay her compensation of £466.93  in relation to this unfair  commission.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for reasons  that Ill explain.
Ms M says at the time she applied  for her credit card insufficient  information was provided  
about the terms and conditions  of the policy, so she was unable  to make an informed choice 
about taking it out. Also she says it was never made  clear the policy  was optional and that 
she had a choice  whether  to take it out or not. Ms M has also said she didnt need the policy 
as she had good sick pay with her employment  and also a good  redundancy package.  
RBS has provided a copy of the postal application form which  Ms M completed for her credit 
card. Theres a separate section on the form headed Optional Insurance. And I can see 
that Ms M has ticked  a box and signed  in this section to say that she wanted to take out the 
PPI. Theres nothing on the form suggesting  that the PPI was compulsory, it is clearly  
described as optional. 
There are also two other types of insurance available in this insurance section but Ms M did 
not tick to take these  out. So taking account of the form layout and the way Ms M completed 
it, I think its most likely  that at the time Ms M was aware she had a choice about taking out 
any of the insurance  options and she chose to only take out the PPI. 
Ref: DRN67219272When the PPI was sold, it was taken  out through a mailshot. So Ms M completed the 
application form at home.  RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M, so it didnt have  to check  
that the PPI was right for her. But it did have  to give her enough information to decide for 
herself whether  or not to take out the policy. I think its likely that the information RBS gave  
to Ms M wasnt as good  as it should have  been. But from what  I know about  her 
circumstances at the time, I dont think better information  would  have changed her mind  
about taking it. I say this because:
Ms M would appear to have been  eligible for the PPI policy  and not affected by any 
of its main exclusions or limitations.
Ms M says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer. But this policy would have  
paid out in addition to this, allowing her to use any sick pay to pay other living 
expenses. So I still think she would have thought the policy gave her extra security 
which could have  proved useful if things  went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the PPI premiums were  unaffordable for Ms M. And as these 
premiums were  paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled the policy  whenever she 
wanted to.
So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold, which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI. But RBS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms M about that when she took out the policy. 
Because RBS didnt  tell Ms M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.  The 
amount offered was paid to Ms Ms credit  card account in February  2019.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out I dont  think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Ms M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this in February 2019, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6721927