K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly refused to 
pay the whole of their claim under their travel insurance policy, when they had to cancel their 
holiday due to illness.
Mr and Mrs C are represented  by their daughter Ms C.
background
Mr and Mrs C were due to go on holiday  on 14 November 2017 returning on 21 November 
2017. They  had booked their holiday on 31 December 2016.  They  applied  for and bought  a 
single trip policy  from IPA dated 2 November 2017.
Unfortunately, Mrs C fell ill on 11 November 2017 and was hospitalised. Her treating doctors 
advised she could  not travel. So they made a claim to IPA for the cost of the cancelled  
holiday.
IPA only paid their claim on a proportionate basis because it said Mr and Mrs C didnt 
declare all their medical conditions. This meant that the premium IPA charged them for their 
policy was too low. So on taking the all the medical  conditions into account  it meant Mr and 
Mrs C had only paid 31.86% of the premium amount they should have paid. So IPA only 
paid 31.86% of their claim.
Mr and Mrs C complained  but IPA didnt  change its stance. So Mr and Mrs C brought  their 
complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think IPA had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  so their complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
When Mr and Mrs C applied for their policy, they were asked a series  of questions  about 
their medical history. Mrs C disclosed  she had breast cancer 10 years but she didnt disclose 
anything else.
Ms C on behalf of her parents said the breast  cancer diagnosis was all that has been 
required to be disclosed previously. And that the medical conditions, which IPA said Mrs C 
needed to disclose, would not be classed as pre-existing conditions, nor something they 
would consider relevant for the purposes of obtaining travel  insurance.
First, its for any individual insurer  to decide whats relevant to the risk its offering to cover 
and whats not. Its certainly not for any consumer  to decide themselves whats  relevant or 
not relevant for any insurance  policy.  And it doesnt matter  what  questions other insurers  
might have asked in the past, whats relevant here is what  questions IPA required Mr and 
Mrs C to answer in this application for this policy. 
Further, under  the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA) 
its very clear that the consumer has a duty to answer the questions  asked by the insurer 
honestly and to take care not to make any misrepresentations to the insurer.  And if care isnt 
Ref: DRN66966782taken by the consumer and/or misrepresentations are made by the consumer, then the 
insurer has certain remedies, which Ill discuss below.
As the adjudicator explained  when  Mr and Mrs C were applying for their policy, they were 
asked a series of questions. The first question did relate to pre-existing medical conditions 
as detailed in the adjudicators view. However,  the next question didnt, it simply asked about 
medical history. This was the question Mr and Mrs C failed to answer properly. It says the 
following:
Please tell us about your medical history. You wont always  be charged extra but 
failure to tell us about any medical  conditions,  past or on-going  could potentially  
affect specific claims for medical treatment, flights or even the whole policy.
Have you or anyone  in your party been prescribed medication, received  treatment  or 
had a consultation with a doctor or hospital specialist for any medical  condition  in the 
past two years?
I consider that question  is perfectly clear  and easy to understand. It simply wants  information  
about any medical issues within the previous two years, which I also think  is relatively 
straightforward for any consumer to answer.
From Mrs Cs medical history completed  by Mrs Cs own GP, IPA said Mrs C failed disclose 
that she had  UITs  and needed medication for them in February 2017 and further she had 
suspected diverticulitis  which also wasnt disclosed.
IPA then said, had it known this, it would have  charged Mr and Mrs C more for the premium.  
In addition, its clearly shown me that the correct premium should  have been £65.65  and that 
Mr and Mrs C only paid £20.92.
Under CIDRA, when  a consumer hasnt answered a question asked by the insurer properly 
or misrepresented the facts, the insurer has only two remedies.  It can either cancel the 
policy and refund the premium, which would have meant Mr and Mrs C would have had no 
cover at all, or it can pay any claim proportionately, which  is what IPA has done here. Given 
Mr and Mrs C only paid 31.86% the premium they should paid, IPA has only paid 31.86% of 
their cancellation  claim.
Therefore, I consider  IPA has both acted fairly and reasonably  in choosing the remedy, 
which is of the most benefit to Mr and Mrs C. And indeed  IPA has also acted in accordance 
with the law on the issue where a consumer hasnt answered a question  properly or 
accurately.
Therefore, I dont think IPA has done  anything wrong in its dealing with Mr and Mrs Cs 
cancellation claim.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Ref: DRN66966783Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6696678