K821x#15complaint
Mr H complained he was mis-sold a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mr H took out the PPI in November 2001  when he applied  for a credit card. BoS said the 
sale took place  during  a meeting and that Mr H was advised to take the cover. Mr H said he 
couldnt remember agreeing to take the PPI, and that he didnt need it as he had good 
employee benefits. 
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mr H had successfully claimed  on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when he stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim 
for accident and sickness, or 10 months for unemployment. The policy  also provided life 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mr Hs credit card agreement. The document shows a cross in a box 
to say that Mr H wanted PPI (but no cross in a second box relating  to another insurance  
product). The cross  was pre-printed  but so was all of the information  on the form, including  
Mr Hs income  and employment details. So I think its most  likely that the form was printed 
out after a discussion  with the adviser   and that the PPI formed part of that discussion. On 
balance, I think its more  likely than not that Mr H was given a choice about whether to take 
the PPI and that he agreed to it. I think he probably just doesnt  remember doing so after all 
this time. 
Im satisfied that BoS advised Mr H to take out the policy, so it had to make sure that the PPI 
was suitable for Mr H. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Mr H wouldve been  affected by any of 
these. 
Mr H said he wouldve  been entitled to between six and twelve  months sick pay from his 
employer (BoS told us hed said that this wouldve been six months full pay and six months  
half pay).  He also said that in 2001 he wouldve had about four months pay if hed been 
made redundant, and he had about £2,000  in savings and insurance  so about a months  
pay based on the salary  shown  on the credit card agreement. I also note that Mr H said he 
normally paid off the credit card balance in full each  month. 
Ref: DRN63446322Ive thought carefully about everything Mr H has said, but Im conscious  that patterns of 
spending can change, especially if circumstances change. Taking  all this into account  I think  
Mr H couldve  found it difficult to meet monthly payments on the card once his sick pay 
reduced or if he lost his job (I can see from the credit card agreement  that he had other 
commitments including a mortgage).  And Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve paid out 
for up to 12 months per claim (or 10 months for unemployment).  So on balance I dont think  
there was anything wrong with BoS recommending the PPI. 
Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mr H. As Ive said, I cant  know 
how the adviser explained the policy, or when Mr H mightve been  given a policy summary  or 
full policy  document.  So its possible the information about the cost and benefits may not 
have been as clear  as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mr Hs circumstances, I dont think more detailed information  about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed his decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if hed been unable to work. This means  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So 
BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mr H paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give 
Mr H back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont  think  it needs to do anything more.  
I understand BoS will make arrangements to pay Mr H now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt done so already.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6344632