K821x#15complaint
Mrs J has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited wont adjust her Low Claims Bonus 
(LCB) on her private medical insurance  policy after it recovered the cost of her treatment 
through a court case  against a third party.
background
In 2016, Mrs J suffered  injury in an accident for which she needed treatment. She made a 
claim under her policy. BUPA accepted the claim and paid the costs  of the treatment.
Mrs J held another party liable for the accident.  She pursued compensation  from the third 
party in a legal action. She notified BUPA of the legal  action  and it asked that its own costs  
be added  to the compensation claim.
In the meantime, in August 2017,  Mrs Js policy renewed. The policy  premium was subject to 
an LCB scheme under  which the level of increase was affected by the amount of any claims 
made in the previous twelve months. The treatment costs resulting from the accident caused 
Mrs Js premium to rise by more than it otherwise would have done.
In August  2018,  Mrs Js policy again renewed.  Her premium was further affected by 
additional treatment  she had received related to the accident.
Later in August 2018, the legal action was settled  and BUPA recovered its costs in full.
Mrs J asked BUPA to amend her claim records and LCB in light of its recovery of costs. 
BUPA refused  to do so. It acknowledged that in August  2017  its adviser  had led Mrs J to 
believe that following  the recovery of its costs, Mrs Js premium  would no longer be affected 
by the claims shed made in respect of the accident but it said this advice had been 
incorrect.
Mrs J was unhappy at BUPAs decision and referred her complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She considered  that, 
given it had recovered its costs, BUPA should disregard the claims in question  for the 
purposes of calculating Mrs Js premium and should refund her the amount she had 
overpaid in premiums in 2017 and 2018,  plus interest.
BUPA didnt  accept  the adjudicators findings. It said the purpose of the LCB was to adjust  
the premium to reflect the future risk of the policyholder making a claim. Because Mrs J had 
suffered injuries  she was more likely to make claims in future policy  years  (because those 
injuries could  flare up) and if that happened then BUPA would not again  be able to recover  
its treatment costs from the third party. It said Mrs J should have included  the increased cost 
of her policy in her compensation claim from the third party.  It pointed  to a previous decision 
by another ombudsman on a similar complaint which it believed supported its case.
In view of the continued  disagreement the matter has been passed to me for a decision.   
Ref: DRN62353222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
shall explain  why.
BUPA made a subrogated claim to recover its costs from the third party  who caused Mrs Js 
accident. It was entitled  to do this under the terms of the policy.  However,  once it had 
successfully recovered  these costs, it was in the position as if the claim had never been 
made. And I think it should have adjusted Mrs Js LCB accordingly  to ensure the premiums 
shed already paid, and would pay in the future,  were  unaffected by the treatment costs in 
question.
BUPA has argued  that it shouldnt have to disregard the claims for the purposes  of 
calculating Mrs Js premium because the purpose of the LCB is to adjust  premiums  to reflect 
future risk. It says Mrs J is more likely to make  a future claim as a result  of the injuries she 
has received. However, the policy doesnt state  that this is the purpose  of the LCB.  And as 
the adjudicator  has pointed  out, the policy  allows the policyholder  to choose to receive 
eligible treatment on the NHS and to receive  NHS cash benefit. Claims for NHS  cash  benefit 
are not taken into account for the purposes of the LCB, nor do they prevent the policyholder 
from choosing to switch  to private treatment at any time in the future. This undermines  
BUPAs argument about the purposes of the LCB. Having fully recovered its costs, BUPA is 
in the position as if Mrs Js treatment  so far had been on the NHS (except that it hasnt had 
to pay her any cash benefit).
BUPA informed Mrs J of the additional cost of her policy in 2017 due to the accident 
treatment costs and invited her to reclaim  this from the third party. Mrs J didnt do so even 
though she had the opportunity. However, even if she had claimed for this cost, it wouldnt 
have compensated  her for the higher premium she would have to pay in future years due to 
the cumulative  effect of the LCB. And she couldnt  easily have claimed compensation for 
these future  higher premiums because she wouldnt have known what they would be. I 
therefore think it was reasonable for Mrs J not to include her additional premium  costs in her 
compensation claim and instead rely on BUPA to rectify this once it had recovered its claims 
costs.
BUPA has referred  to a previous decision by another  ombudsman.  I have considered  that 
decision but have  chosen to depart from it in this case because I consider the outcome 
above to be fairer for the reasons I have stated.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA  
Insurance Limited to disregard any claims for which  it has recovered  its costs for the 
purposes of calculating Mrs Js LCB and to recalculate her premium accordingly since  2017. 
It should refund Mrs J any amount due to her and add interest at the annual simple rate of 
8%, calculated from the date she paid the relevant  premium to the date of settlement. * 
Ref: DRN62353223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If BUPA considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs J a certificate showing  this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6235322