K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) added her daughter N as a permanent 
named driver when  she only wanted  this to be done temporarily. 
 
background
Mrs B had a motor insurance  policy with UKI. Her daughter N had authority to deal with the 
policy and make changes  on it on Mrs Bs behalf.
N called  UKI to add herself to the policy, temporarily, as a named driver;  she had done this 
before in previous policy years. The line dropped  before  the quotation was completed so N 
had to call in again. On this call there was some confusion to begin with as the call handler 
couldnt see that N had authority on the policy  but this was cleared up within the call and the 
quote process began.
UKI carried out two quotes for N to be added to the policy. The first as a temporary named 
driver for two months only, the second was for her to be added to the policy permanently. 
Neither quote required an additional  premium  to be paid, so N chose to go ahead with the 
permanent change.
When Mrs Bs policy was due to renew N was added to the renewal quote. They were 
unhappy with this and called UKI. UKI said it could remove N from the policy but the 
premium due would increase.  N renewed  her mothers policy with herself as a named driver, 
but complained  to UKI as she and Mrs B didnt think it had acted fairly. At this time N asked  
UKI to send her a copy  of the calls from when she was added to the policy.  She says it has 
never done this. 
UKI looked into the complaint but didnt feel it had done anything wrong and so N brought 
Mrs Bs complaint this service. The investigator  didnt uphold  the complaint;  in summary she 
said that UKI had made N aware  that the change was a permanent  one and that it had done 
nothing wrong  when it included her in the renewal  quote. N and Mrs B didnt agree and so 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so, 
I have to tell N and Mrs B that I think the investigator  has reached the right outcome here. So 
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint in this matter. Ill explain  why.
Before I do Id like to let N know that UKI has confirmed it has sent her copies of the call 
transcripts by email.
I have listened  to the calls from the day UKI added  N as a named driver on Mrs Bs policy. I 
have summarised the relevant detail from them:
Ref: DRN68270152UKI asked  N if she wanted to be added to the policy temporarily or if this was to be a 
permanent change. N confirmed that she only needed it temporarily but was wondering 
which would be the most  cost effective. After some talk around it, she asked UKI to give her 
a quote to be added to the policy temporarily  for two months  only.  UKI completed the quote 
and confirmed there would be no additional premium  to pay for this change.
N was surprised by this and asked again if this was for a temporary change. UKI explained 
that it was temporary  for two months and explained  that when a named driver is added to a 
policy temporarily they can have 90 days of cover  or they can be added on seven separate 
occasions whichever  happens sooner. It went on to explain  what it meant if N chose  to be 
added to the policy permanently. 
It said:
If you go on permanent  that would be until the policy renews  and then obviously you 
would go on at renewal. So if you didnt want to be on that youd need to give us a 
call to be taken off.
N asked UKI to check if there would be an additional  premium  to make the permanent  
change. After completing another  quote it confirmed there would  be no additional premium  to 
add N to the policy permanently. It asked N if it should go ahead and make the change to 
which she responded might as well.
UKI processed the change and told N:
So if you do want to be taken off the renewal you will have to ring and let us know.
In response N said:
Ok, I always look out for the paper work  to come through and I deal with it anyway
N has argued that she has been added  to the policy as a temporary  named driver in 
previous years and this has never  resulted in her being included on the renewal  quotation 
and so this time should have been no different.  But I disagree,  based on the above Im 
satisfied that UKI made it clear to N that the change was a permanent one and that she 
would be on the policy at renewal. It also made  it clear to N what she would  need  to do if she 
didnt want to be included  at renewal. 
Mrs Bs policy was due to renew  on 12 April 2019, I can see from the screenshots  of UKIs 
system that it sent a renewal invitation out on 14 March 2019  and sent chasers on 5 and 11 
April 2019. So N had enough notice to make  any changes to Mrs Bs policy, if she wanted  to 
before the renewal  date.
N spoke to UKI on the day of renewal about  removing  herself  as a named driver and UKI 
confirmed this would increase the policy premium.  While I understand Mrs B and N dont 
think its fair, I have to point out that any change  of details can result in a change in the policy  
premium. 
In Mrs Bs case  the policy renewed at the lower  price, keeping N as a named driver,  so there 
has been no detriment  to her in terms of cost, so I havent looked into this any further.
Ref: DRN68270153Im satisfied overall that UKI didnt  do anything wrong here and wont be asking it to do 
anything to put matters  right for Mrs B.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6827015