K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2001. Mr B says Bank of Scotland (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr B says that he thought the PPI was just part of applying for his credit card. But having 
looked at a copy of his postal application form I can see that theres  a separate section for 
PPI  and Mr B has signed under  the statement yes, I want you to arrange credit care 
insurance to protect  my repayments.  This was separate to his signature for the credit. If he 
hadnt wanted the PPI he could have left this section blank.  So I think  Mr B was aware  that 
he was taking PPI and that he chose  to take it out at the time  knowing he didnt have to.
Mr B says BoS recommended the PPI to him. But BoS says it wouldnt have done. This was a 
postal sale and Mr B wouldnt have had any contact with BoS when completing  the application. I 
accept the form said it strongly recommended PPI, but to my mind that was just a general 
statement aimed at anyone reading it, not advice to Mr B personally. And I dont think  Mr B would 
have felt pressured into taking it from this statement. 
So as I dont think BoS made  a personal  recommendation to Mr B it didnt have to check if the PPI 
was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr B got the information  she needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI, knowing what other means he had  and it 
still looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong, paying  out on top of what he would have received from his employer 
and for potentially longer than he would have got his full rate of pay. And while  I dont doubt 
Mr Bs family and friends  would have wanted  to help, this depended  on them being able to 
when he needed  it most  - which  couldnt be guaranteed. So I still think  he could have found 
the policy useful.   
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So overall,  I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Ref: DRN64902382BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr B about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  BoS should also pay back to Mr B any extra interest  he paid because of 
that.
BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr B the difference between 
what Mr B owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6490238