K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that their home  insurer, Allianz Insurance  Plc, declined  their claim 
for items stolen when  their laptop  bag was snatched from in front of Mrs L at a train station.
background
Mrs L and her father were  travelling in Europe.  On 31 August 2018 they were waiting to be 
collected from a train station. They were  stood with their bags on the floor at their feet. A 
stranger began talking  to them, after hed walked away they noticed the laptop bag was 
missing. The bag contained two laptops, a wedding ring, a pair of cufflinks (belonging to
Mr L) and a pair of glasses. The theft was reported  to the local police and a claim was made  
to Allianz.
Allianz had concerns about the circumstances  it felt it wasnt  likely a theft could have 
happened like that. It appointed R to investigate and assess  the claim. The police report was 
obtained which verified the circumstances.  Mrs L was asked for proof of ownership and value 
for the items.  She was told to get a valuation report on the ring and cufflinks.  She said her 
father had gifted the cufflinks  to Mr L and she was told her father  should  write a letter to 
evidence that. Mrs L had replaced  the glasses after she returned home - she sent the 
replacement receipt  to R as proof of value for the glasses  lost. Regarding the laptops,  an HP 
and a Mac, she said the HP was purchased via a catalogue, the purchase for the Mac was 
evidenced by provision of the purchase  receipt from a high-street  retailer.
R considered the evidence.  It wasnt  sure the Mac receipt really  showed the item claimed  
had been owned. This was largely  because Mrs L had annotated the catalogue invoice, 
explaining this showed the purchase  of two laptops.  But regarding the catalogue documents,  
aside from Mrs Ls annotations  these didnt  specify laptop purchases, so they werent  felt to 
be sufficient to show ownership of any laptop.  R noted evidence for other items post-dated 
the loss, such as the valuation Mrs L had provided  at its request. It felt the fathers  letter, 
which it had requested, didnt evidence ownership  or value of the cufflinks.  It said the claim 
should be declined.
Mrs L later sent a photo of her father wearing the cufflinks, a photo of the Mac box and one 
of the device in use. These  were  sent to R. It said the photo  of the cufflinks  wasnt  clear 
enough and wouldnt  evidence value anyway. It said the photos re the Mac post-dated  the 
loss so werent persuasive  evidence of the loss.
Mrs L complained to this service. Our investigator asked Mrs L if she had any evidence from 
the catalogue provider that specifically showed  the purchase of the HP laptop. This was 
provided. Our investigator asked Mrs L if there was any reason why the photo  of the Mac in 
use seemed to have  been taken after the event.  Mrs L said that was wrong   her son had 
taken the photo originally  and sent it to her. She provided a dated shot of the original photo.
This evidence was sent to Allianz. It said it didnt  change  anything.  It said the catalogue 
information generated further questions as the original document  suggested the item was 
bought in 2016 but the new data said 2014. Regarding the Mac it said the original photo 
might have come from any source. It felt it was fair for it to have declined the claim and it was 
reasonably maintaining that position.
Our investigator told Allianz  she thought  it should pay the claim for the laptops, plus interest. 
But she accepted  that it had been  fair for it to decline  the claim for the cufflinks, ring and 
Ref: DRN61253912glasses. Mr and Mrs L thanked the investigator for her consideration. Allianz maintained that 
declining the claim in its entirety was fair and reasonable.
The complaint was passed  to me and I also felt Allianz had acted unfairly and unreasonably 
but I felt it needed  to settle for the cufflinks as well as the laptops, reimburse the cost of the 
valuation report Mr and Mrs L had obtained, plus interest*  and pay £250 compensation. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining my findings. Both Allianz and Mr and Mrs L said 
they accepted my findings, and Mrs L clarified that the laptops havent been replaced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
ring and glasses
Mr and Mrs L have no evidence of ownership for these two items.  No photographs, and 
whilst the glasses were  replaced  and the receipt  for this provided, that doesnt show 
ownership of the claimed for glasses. So Im satisfied Allianz refusal to settle for these two 
items was fair and reasonable.  If Mrs L should find any photos she should forward  them to 
Allianz if she wants it to review the settlement.
laptops
Allianz has most recently  said the evidence provided re these items is unclear and 
inconclusive. It isnt.
There is proof from the catalogue  company  dated 2016 which refers to two products 
purchased on an interest free agreement. This doesnt say what those products are, although 
Mrs L annotated  the document  stating  they were two laptops. Allianz never  asked Mrs L to 
explain this invoice, or told her why this wasnt sufficient or asked her for further information. 
As soon  as we clarified things with her she obtained  proof from the catalogue company 
showing the HP laptop was purchased from it in 2014. The evidence  is clear and simple. 
Allianz intransigence in light of it is somewhat frustrating.
The Mac had a receipt. I see R felt it was unclear if this receipt was likely  for the claimed  for 
item because the catalogue document was annotated by Mrs L in respect of two laptops,  and 
the Mac receipt  was from a different retailer. But I dont see it ever asked Mrs L to explain 
this. If it had I think shed have been able to provide a reasonable explanation.  As it
is Allianz has since accepted the receipt evidences  ownership and value of the Mac  but 
says as it has concerns  about other  evidence  the claim remains  declined. In light of the 
evidence Ive seen  that is not a fair or reasonable response.
Allianz, in my view,  now needs settle the claim for the laptops.  It will have to do that in line 
with the policy terms. This may mean it will replace the items rather  than pay for them.
However, Im unsure if Mr and Mrs L have replaced the items already. If they have then 
Allianz will have to reimburse their outlay,  upon sight of proof, plus interest* from the date the 
items were purchased  until settlement is made.
cufflinks
Ref: DRN61253913Allianz knew these  had been  given  as gifts. It asked for a letter confirming this. It then said 
that didnt prove ownership or value.  I disagree regarding the first. Unless  Allianz could show 
Mrs Ls father was lying, his word on passing the gift to his son-in-law is sufficient  proof, on 
the face of it, that he owned  cufflinks which he passed to his son-in-law. And given the 
circumstances, and what Allianz had asked to see, I dont think it could reasonably have 
expected a letter like this would show anything more.
But Allianz, if it had been investigating this claim properly, and carrying out reasonable 
activity to validate it, could have used  that letter to inform and make further findings. The 
claim for cufflinks  could and should  have been passed to a jewellery specialist.  Rather than 
having Mrs L provide  a post-loss valuation, the jewellery specialist could have talked to her, 
and her father, about the item and used its expertise and knowledge to validate, or 
otherwise, the value  of the cufflinks,  and further validate or refute  the evidence provided  in 
the letter written by the father. Then,  when  the photo of the cufflinks was provided the 
jewellery specialist  could have considered this too and decided if that met the description it 
had received from Mrs L and her father.
Such activity  would be quite normal for a claim like this and I think Allianz should reasonably 
have done this. What Allianz chose to do instead  was have Mrs L give a description to her 
jeweller who then valued that item as described. That value, £4,000, now stands as the best 
information available about the price of the item Mrs L had and lost. And Allianz hasnt 
provided anything  to suggest  her description or the value  is wrong  or unlikely  in anyway. Nor 
anything that suggests the fathers account of his initial  purchase  of the cufflinks or their 
purchase value  is wrong or unlikely. In the circumstance, Im not minded  to let Allianz have a 
second opportunity  to assess  this (by now appointing a jewellery specialist). I think its fair 
and reasonable to say it now just has to pay for the cufflinks, at the price Mrs L had them  
valued at; £4,000. To that it will have to add interest* and Ive explained below what  date 
I think this should  be applied from.
I think Allianz could reasonably have appointed  a jewellery specialist at the outset to work 
alongside R. R interviewed Mrs L on 25 October  2018  I think the jewellery  specialist could 
have completed its work by then. Allowing a few weeks  for reports  to be created and 
considered, I think Allianz should reasonably have settled the claim for the cufflinks by
15 November 2018. Therefore,  Im going to make it pay interest from this date.
Mrs L also had to pay £50 for the valuation. I think Allianz should refund this to her, plus 
interest*, not least  because in making  her obtain this it was delegating its reasonable claim 
validation costs to her. Its dated 15 September 2018, interest* will have to be added to the
£50 from that date until settlement is made.
I can see this has been quite upsetting for Mr and Mrs L. I think  Allianz should pay them
£250 compensation.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, I see no need to change  them.  Mrs L 
clarified the laptops havent been  replaced  so Allianz can act accordingly,  as my provisional 
findings allow. My provisional findings are now the findings of this, my final decision
Ref: DRN61253914my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Allianz  Insurance Plc to:
Settle the claim  for the laptops in line with the policy terms and conditions  and my 
comments above.
Pay Mr and Mrs L £4,000, plus interest* from 15 November 2018 until the date 
settlement is made.
Reimburse the £50 paid for the valuation, plus interest*  from 15 September 2018 until 
settlement is made.
Pay Mr and Mrs L £250  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Allianz  Insurance  
Plc considers  that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs L, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6125391