K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about what Capital One (Europe) plc has done to put things right 
following her complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 1999, Mrs B bought PPI alongside a credit card.
In 2011, Mrs B complained that the policy was mis-sold  and as she referred  that complaint 
to our service at that time, I havent  looked at the sale of the policy  again in this decision.
In 2018 Mrs B made a new complaint about  the commission  Capital One got for selling her 
the policy. Capital  One looked at this complaint and thought it should  be upheld.  It basically 
offered to pay back the difference  between the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium.  It worked this out to be £1,143.51.
But Capital One say the account closed in 2009 after it issued a default notice. Mrs B paid 
£2,800 to settle the account.  But Capital  One says she still owed £1,294.87, and they want  
to use the compensation to reduce this.
Mrs B disagrees. Her representatives say Capital One accepted her payment in full and final 
settlement of the account. So no debt exists  on the account  and the compensation should 
be paid to Mrs B directly.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  Mrs B didnt 
agree with the adjudicator. So the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One says it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mrs 
B that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back the amount  of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. But it wants  to use this 
compensation to reduce the amount Mrs B didnt repay when the account  closed  in 2009.
So Ive thought about whether this is fair. I appreciate this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mrs B, but I think what Capital One has done is fair. Ill explain why.
Capital One says that the account  closed in 2009.  Ive seen a statement showing that in 
October 2009 Mrs B paid £2,800 towards the account. She still owed £1,294.87. But Capital 
One worked out it needs to pay £1,143.51 because of the commission and profit share it got.
Mrs B says her final payment was in full and final settlement of the account  so the debt 
doesnt exist and she should  be paid directly. Capital One says it was a partial settlement  of 
the account  so though  it may not have  pursued  Mrs B for the outstanding debt, the debt 
still exists and they can use the compensation  to reduce what she still owes.
Ref: DRN66345232I dont think this makes a difference.
 
I say this because,  either way, Capital One accepted less than Mrs B owed when it closed  
the account. I think it did this because Mrs B couldnt afford to repay everything she owed. 
And I dont  think it would be fair for me to ignore this in deciding  what  Capital One now need  
to do to put things  right.
Mrs B owed Capital One money which it agreed not to pursue. Capital One now owes  Mrs B 
something because  of the commission  and profit share it got from the sale of the PPI. As 
they both owed each other money because  of the same credit card, I think its fair for Capital 
One to deduct  what Mrs B didnt repay  from what it now has to pay Mrs B.
I further note the PPI premiums were charged  to the credit card account.  I think that the cost 
of the excess commission  and profit share  was included in the amount that Mrs B didnt have 
to repay  when she settled  her account. I dont think it would be fair for Mrs B to get back 
amounts that she never originally paid.
In any case, when it works out its offer, Id expect  Capital One to put Mrs B in the position 
shed be in if it hadnt charged  the excess commission and profit  share as part of her PPI 
premiums. I think  that if Capital One hadnt  charged  these  amounts, shed still have  owed 
some money when the account closed, but less. And thats  the position Capital Ones offer 
puts her in.
I note Mrs Bs representatives think that what Capital One has done  is unscrupulous  and 
immoral. But what Capital One did meant  that Mrs B didnt have to repay  a significant 
portion of her credit card balance. Capital  One owed Mrs B something,  but she owed it more. 
In all the circumstances, I think its fair for Capital One to use the compensation to reduce the 
debt. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6634523