K820x#14complaint
Mr O says American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX)  mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr O bought the PPI policy in 2001  at the same  time as taking out a credit  card.  This was 
done via a postal application.
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Os complaint in October  2019.  I said I was 
minded to uphold  it and gave Mr O and AMEX an opportunity to provide further 
comments before I issued my final decision. Neither Mr O, nor AMEX had anything 
further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr Os case. As theres  nothing new for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision and for the reasons I set out there. Ill repeat these 
reasons below.
I uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr O says AMEX  advised him to take the policy. As this policy was taken out by post 
and I cant see that AMEXs helped Mr O with the application, I think its unlikely AMEX 
recommend the PPI to Mr O. So it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for him. But it 
did have to make sure he got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for him.
AMEX has provided a copy of Mr Os credit card application form. It has a separate 
section covering PPI. I can see that Mr O selected PPI on the form. However,  I dont 
think that AMEX gave Mr O enough information for him to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether  the policy was right for him.
The form tells Mr O to refer to the accompanying leaflet for information  about the PPI. I 
dont know if Mr O received or read this leaflet.  
The cost of PPI isnt mentioned on the application  form.  So, I think it unlikely that Mr O 
wouldve understood the full cost of the policy based  on the information that AMEX 
gave him. For example,  I cant  see that he wouldve known that if he made  a claim he 
still had to keep  paying the PPI premium. Or that the cost of the PPI would be added  to 
his balance and hed have to pay interest on it. The benefit that wouldve been paid if he 
made a claim (5% of the outstanding balance) wouldve only just covered the cost of the 
minimum repayment and the PPI premium. 
I think had Mr O been given better  information about  the PPI he wouldnt have thought 
PPI worth it to him, in his particular circumstances. He said he was eligible to get up to 
six months worth of sick pay from work at full pay and another six months  worth  at half 
pay. He also mentioned  having a considerable amount of savings. But, as he said his 
savings were earmarked  for his retirement,  Ive not factored these into my decision.
Ref: DRN64002092So, I think Mr O has lost out because  of what AMEX did wrong and I uphold his complaint.
 
fair compensation
I order that AMEX should put Mr O in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  
out PPI, as follows.
If the credit card  account is closed
A.AMEX should  find out how much  Mr O would have owed when he closed his 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AMEX should  then refund the difference between  what Mr O owed when he closed 
his account and what he would have owed  if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr O made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, AMEX can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.AMEX should  add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mr O would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  8% a year.
C.If  when  AMEX works out what Mr O would have owed each  month without PPI  
Mr O paid more than enough to clear his balance, AMEX  should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mr O paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mr O wouldve owed AMEX  something  on his credit  card.
The interest rate should be 8% a year from then on.
D.AMEX should  tell Mr O what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the credit card  account is open
A.AMEX should  find out how much  Mr O would  owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
AMEX should  then refund the difference between  what Mr O owes and what he 
would have owed.
If Mr O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AMEX  can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when AMEX works  out what Mr O would have owed each month without PPI  
Ref: DRN64002093Mr O paid more than enough to clear  his balance, AMEX should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr O paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mr O wouldve owed AMEX something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C.AMEX should  tell Mr O what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires AMEX to take off tax from this interest.  AMEX must give Mr O a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
AMEX may deduct from the redress shown above any commission  amount it has already 
repaid to Mr O that relates to this PPI sale.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint and order American Express Services  Europe  Limited  to pay him 
fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2010.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6400209