K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc failed to follow  his instructions when he applied  for a 
credit card. 
Background
Mr B successfully applied  for a credit card in branch  with Santander in May 2019.  Mr B says 
he made it clear during  the application process that he wanted to open a Visa credit card, 
not a Mastercard.  
As part of the application  process  £760  was transferred from another  credit  card to the new 
Santander account on a 0% interest basis. 
Mr B later received a Mastercard  credit  card and complained.  Santander responded on 
30 May 2019 but didnt agree it had made  a mistake. Santander said it only offered 
Mastercard credit cards and that there was nothing to show  an error had been made. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed  to an investigator. He didnt 
uphold the complaint and said it was most likely  a genuine  misunderstanding that led to the 
wrong credit card type being  applied for. Mr B didnt  agree the investigators  view was fair so 
his complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B had a genuine reason for wanting  a specific  type of credit  card  hes 
explained that he uses a Mastercard  for business purposes and wanted a Visa so it is clear 
which card to use. But I have to balance that against the other information I have available  
as well as the type of products Santander  offers. 
Where information is incomplete or disputed by the parties involved Ill base my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider  most likely  to have occurred based on 
all the available  information. 
Santander has explained that it doesnt offer a Visa credit card  it only operates 
Mastercards. So whilst I understand Mr B wanted  a Visa version of the credit card, I think its 
very unlikely  that Santanders branch staff wouldnt have been aware of the type of cards it 
offers customers. 
Ive also considered what Mr B has told us about  the application process. I understand he 
says it was made clear  that he wanted  a Visa credit card. But Santander has provided 
information about the application process as well and says the member  of staff involved was 
experienced and knew  its product range well. Whilst I dont doubt what Mr B has told us, I 
havent been persuaded that Santander misrepresented  its credit card or misled  Mr B. Like 
the investigator, I think theres been  a genuine misunderstanding in this case  and havent  
found that Santander made a mistake.
The credit card operated  in line with the terms and conditions Mr B agreed to when it was 
opened. A balance was transferred and Santander  explained that Mr B could make 
Ref: DRN64038992arrangements for it to be transferred  back to the original account. In addition, the interest 
rate of 0% remained in place and there has been no financial loss to Mr B. Whilst I 
understand the credit card isnt what  he wanted, I havent found  grounds to uphold  his 
complaint. As Ive said above, I think there was a genuine misunderstanding in branch that 
led to the application proceeding despite  Santander  being unable to offer the type of card 
Mr B wanted. But I havent found that Santander  misled Mr B or treated him unfairly. As a 
result, Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6403899