K821x#15complaint
Miss L has complained  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly  
refused to pay her claim under her bicycle insurance  when it was stolen. 
background
Miss L bought her policy in July 2017  and declared what  type of bicycle lock she had. She 
was issued with cover and her schedule confirmed the lock she had was also insured as an 
accessory. She bought her bike and lock through the Cycle to Work scheme  from same  
website as Red Sands used  to offer this policy.
When Miss Ls bike was stolen, she made a claim.  But Red Sands said the type of lock she 
had didnt meet her policy conditions. Red Sands said because her bike was worth  between 
£250 and £999, its policy required her to use one that was rated silver by a security 
standard which Miss Ls lock wasnt. So it refused to pay her claim.
Miss L then brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator was of the view that Red Sands 
ought to pay her claim. 
Red Sands  disagreed so Miss Ls complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Miss L bought/hired her bike,  its lock and her insurance policy from the same  website, which  
is operated by the same brand name  of Red Sands  bike policy.  Basically she decided to 
utilise the cycle to work scheme and got herself sorted  out with the bike, lock and insurance 
all at the same time, and from her perspective in the same  place.
Miss Ls lock was also insured under this policy as a listed accessory.  I consider  that means 
when she applied for this insurance  policy, she had told Red Sands the lock she was 
intending to use to lock her bike. So that also means she provided Red Sands with enough 
information before the insurance  contract was concluded, for it to have known  the lock she 
wanted to insure  wasnt suitable for the policy she wanted to buy, given the bike she had 
also just bought/hired.
Therefore, before this policy began, I consider Red Sands  knew only this lock was to be 
insured with the bike, since it provided  cover for its loss too. The right type of lock, which the 
policy demanded Miss L use, is much more  expensive  than the one Miss L insured. So Im 
not at all persuaded as Red Sands has said that it was feasible  that Miss L simply wouldnt  
have bothered to insure a more expensive  lock. And instead, simply decide to insure  a much 
less expensive one, as that isnt at all reasonable or indeed rational for anyone to do.
Consequently, I consider  Red Sands had enough  information to know  before the insurance  
contract was completed that it was very likely this policy wouldnt cover Miss L in the event of 
a theft claim. So I consider its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, 
that Red Sands now pays Miss Ls claim adding interest of 8% simple  per year. 
Ref: DRN68135562Miss L has raised the issue  that given the hire period  of her bike finished in or around  June, 
she had to make a final of payment of £75, which she wishes to add on to her complaint. I 
assume when Red Sands  pay this claim,  assuming Miss L accepts  my decision,  that this 
sum is included in the claim  value and subsequent payment too.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Pay Miss Ls claim subject to the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date she made her claim to the date it 
pays her.*
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss L how 
much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6813556