K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about how esure Insurance Limited  handled  his claim against his motor
insurance policy, including its valuation of his car.
background
In February 2019,  I sent both parties  my provisional  decision  in the case, an extract  of which 
is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I dont repeat the background here.  
In my provisional decision,  I said that I intended  to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I set out 
what esure should do to put matters right. 
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. esure said it would pay Mr S additional 
compensation of £100 and £3,333.33, less the excess due under Mr Ss policy. It asked  
whether any deduction is to be made  for unrelated damage. esure said that Mr S didnt cash  
its earlier cheque for £1,500, so it assumes interest  is calculated  on £1,583.33.  It said the 
audio equipment was factory fitted,  so included in the market  value. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to esures question and, as I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think  its 
fair to make any deduction for unrelated damage. Thats because at the time esure made 
its decision about the value of Mr Ss car, there  was nothing persuasive to suggest that it 
should adjust  the valuation because  of the cars  condition.
The interest calculation  under 2. of the proposed  order in my provisional decision said that 
interest is to be paid on the valuation of £3,333.33 less the excess  and the valuation of 
£1,500 esure has already paid. esure is right to say that interest is to be calculated on 
£1,583.33. esure tells me that Mr S didnt cash its earlier cheque for £1,500. Ive amended 
the final order slightly to reflect  that but the substance is the same.    
Mr S disputes that the audio equipment was factory fitted. As Ive said,  esure should deal 
with Mr Ss claim  for audio equipment in accordance with the terms of his policy.  If its 
response to Mr Ss claim  is that the equipment was factory fitted, so included  in the market 
value of this claim, it should write  to Mr S in those  terms. If Mr S disputes  esures  rejection  of 
his claim,  he should complain to esure  about  that in the first instance and then refer the 
matter to this service, if he wishes to do so. 
I see no reasons to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  So, I 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
Ref: DRN62218602my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I 
now require esure  Insurance  Limited  to:
1.Pay Mr S the valuation of £3,333.33 less the excess due under his policy.   
2.Pay Mr S interest at 8% simple per year on £1,583.33, from the date the 
claim should have  been settled to the date of settlement.
3.Deal with Mr Ss claim for audio  equipment in accordance with the terms of his 
policy  its next step should be to write to Mr S about this. 
4.Pay Mr S an additional £100  in relation  to his distress and inconvenience, in 
addition to the £100 it has already paid.
If esure  believes  that its legally obliged to deduct tax from any interest paid then it must 
provide a tax deduction certificate to enable Mr S to claim  this back from HM Revenue  
& Customs, if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62218603extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains about  how esure Insurance Limited  handled his claim  against his motor 
insurance policy, including its valuation of his car.
background
In June 2018,  Mr S made a claim against  his policy. I understand  his car was vandalised and 
damaged. esure  said that Mr Ss car was a total loss. It said that, as Mr Ss car hadnt been taxed  nor 
had an MOT  since 2016,  it used trade values  which  are lower than retail  values - to value Mr Ss 
car. It paid Mr S £1,750, less the excess due under his policy.
Mr S complains about  esures valuation of his car, how his claim has been handled, data 
breaches and the fact that it didnt include the audio equipment in its offer.
Our investigator said:
esure should have based its valuation  on retail prices, not trade prices.
The engineers report didnt identify any pre-existing issues  with Mr Ss car.
A fair valuation was £3,333.33.
esure should pay Mr S the difference between that valuation and the payment it had 
already made; it should  also pay interest.
esure should assess Mr Ss claim for the fitted,  bluetooth system  in accordance with 
his policy.
There were  delays  and elements of poor service, for which  fair compensation  was 
£200.
This service isnt the right forum  to consider breaches of data protection   as far as he 
could see esure had only passed  information  to organisations hed expect  it to deal 
with.
esure didnt  agree with the investigator. It said:
Its valuation is fair given the unusual circumstances here.
It shouldnt  be expected  to pay top retail price  for a car thats been off the road for 
nearly two years;  the cars last MOT  expired  in September  2016.
Its photos  show weathered, poor paintwork, heavy surface corrosion  on all four brake 
disks and there could be numerous other issues with the car.
Its engineer  estimated  that necessary  repairs  would  costs £980.
There was a long list of advisories in the 2014  MOT.
The bluetooth system was of no value when the car wasnt being  used, so it has no 
real value.
The highest of the three valuations relied  on by the investigator should  be 
disregarded, as its out of line with the other two.
Our investigator reconsidered the matter and said that it would be fair to deduct 50% of the costs 
estimated by the engineer,  so the valuation should be £3333.33 less £490.
Ref: DRN62218604Mr S said:
His cars retail value isnt affected  by the fact that it wasnt  used on public highways.
It would  have passed  an MOT.
His car was in good condition.
He could  use it on private land.
esure stored his car outside for several  months, which caused it to deteriorate, 
especially in areas where the vandals caused damage.
His car passed  an MOT  in 2015 with only one advisory.
He carried out the work mentioned in the advisories in the 2014 MOT.
Our investigator looked at the matter  again and said that it wasnt fair to deduct costs estimated by 
esures engineer but that esure  could make a deduction for the fact that Mr Ss car didnt have an 
MOT. esure  didnt accept that.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the valuation of Mr Ss car
Theres been  considerable back and forth so far but the central  question  for me to determine  is 
whether esure acted fairly when it valued Mr Ss car at £1,750. I dont think it did and Ill explain why.
The starting  point is Mr Ss policy, which provides that esure  wont pay more than the market value of 
Mr Ss car at the time of the loss, less the excess. Market value is defined  as:
market value  The market value is the amount  you could reasonably  have expected to sell your 
car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same  make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of 
the accident or loss. This value is based on research  from motor  trades
In its final response to Mr S, esure said that it used trade values, as Mr Ss car hadnt been taxed  
nor had an MOT since 2016. But those issues dont mean that the open market  for Mr Ss car was 
limited to the trade market. It was certainly  possible that he could  have sold it in the retail market. 
So I think that market  value is fairly  represented by retail, not trade values.
We dont  value cars. Our usual  approach is to look at valuations from motor-trade guides.  These are 
used for valuing second hand cars. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. We also take all 
other available evidence into account,  for example, engineers reports.
Ive looked at three motor-trade guides, which give retail values of £3,140, £3,150 and
£3,710. I dont think that the highest  one of those  three is so significantly  different from the other 
two that I should discard it. The average of those is £3,333.33. So, thats the starting point in 
looking at the market value  of Mr Ss car.
I agree with esure  that this is an unusual case. At the time of the loss, Mr Ss car hadnt  been taxed 
for over two years and hadnt had a valid MOT  for over 21 months.  In those circumstances, I think  it 
would have been reasonable for esure to look at whether Mr Ss car would have failed an MOT  and 
whether it should adjust  the valuation to take into account the cars condition.  But it didnt  do that at 
the relevant time.
Ref: DRN62218605When esure gave Mr S its reasons for its decision, it said that it chose trade  values as the car didnt 
have tax or an MOT. esure has since raised issues about the condition  of Mr Ss car. I think that 
most of what  it says in this regard is speculative. And its looking  at the cars condition several  
months after the date of loss. In any event, its not the reasoning it gave to Mr S in its final decision.  
Im looking  at whether esure came to a fair decision  about Mr Ss claim. At the time esure  made its 
decision about the value of Mr Ss car, there was nothing persuasive to suggest  that it should adjust 
the valuation because of the cars condition.
I dont think esure  acted in accordance with the policy terms or fairly when it valued
Mr Ss car at £1,750. Based  on what Ive seen, I think a fair valuation is £3,333.33. Ive seen 
nothing that persuades me that there  was anything about the condition of Mr Ss car that justifies a 
reduction in that valuation figure.
To put matters right,  it think that esure should pay Mr S the valuation of £3,333.33 less the excess 
and the valuation its already  paid.  It should also pay interest.
Mr Ss claim for audio equipment.
Mr S wants to claim for audio equipment. His policy provides cover for in car audio equipment 
permanently fitted to the car. esure has said that its valuation includes that but Ive seen no 
evidence that it does. Its also said that the audio equipment had no value  over the period the car 
wasnt being used. I dont  think thats a logical argument. I think  esure should assess Mr Ss claim 
for audio equipment, in accordance with the terms of his policy.
the service Mr S received
I agree with our investigator that there was some delay in dealing with Mr Ss claim  and that fair 
compensation for that is £200. I see that esure has already paid Mr S compensation  of £100, so it 
should pay the balance  of £100.
Mr Ss personal data
As the investigator explained, this service  doesnt decided if theres  been a breach of data protection  
and I see that he referred Mr S to the appropriate organisation. I havent seen any evidence that 
esure shared Mr Ss information  with third parties except where it was necessary  for the handling of 
his claim.
my provisional  decision
I intend to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and require esure Insurance Limited  to:
1.Pay Mr S the valuation of £3,333.33 less the excess and the valuation its already 
paid.
2.Pay Mr S interest at 8% simple per year on the sum at 1. above, from the date the 
claim should have been settled to the date of settlement.
3.Deal with Mr Ss claim for audio equipment in accordance  with the terms of his policy.
4.Pay Mr S an additional £100 in relation  to his distress and inconvenience,  in addition to 
the £100  it has already  paid.
If esure believes that it is legally obliged  to deduct tax from any interest paid then it must  provide 
a tax deduction certificate to enable Mr S to claim  this back from HM Revenue  & Customs,  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN6221860