K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds  poor service has led to him 
being unable  to rent a hire car in future from a hire car company.  Admiral dealt with a claim 
Mr L made under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr L made a claim to his insurer,  Admiral  and it arrange for his car to be repaired.  Mr L 
complained about the repairs and Admiral agreed  that his car would go back  to the 
appointed repairer (AR) for rectification repairs. During this time, Admiral arranged  for Mr L 
to have use of a hire car. 
In January 2019 while Mr L was away, the repairs to his car were  completed and the hire car 
company came to his home to collect the hire car. But Mr L wasnt  there.
Mr L complained to Admiral. He was unhappy that the hire car company charged him for the 
days he was away and unhappy about them visiting his home address. Mr L said his parents 
had been harassed and the hire car company had reported the car as stolen to the police. 
Mr L was unhappy  that the hire car company had made demands for payment from him. 
Mr L said he couldnt speak to Admirals call handler  dealing  with his claim despite  several  
attempts. 
In January 2019 Mr L discovered that the hire car company had put him on a do not rent 
list. So he wasnt able to hire a car from the hire company in future. Mr L wanted Admiral  to 
compensate him for this. 
Admiral apologised  to Mr L. It acknowledged that hed tried to speak to the handler on a 
number of occasions but wasnt able to. It paid Mr L £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. It also agreed  to reimburse  Mr L for the car hire hed paid for. It said 
it should have  extended the use of car hire while Mr L was away.
Admiral spoke to the hire car company but they didnt agree to remove  Mr Ls details from its 
do not rent list. The hire car company said there  were other reasons why they took this 
action. They said that as the branch lost control of the car, their decision was correct and 
wouldnt be changed. 
Our adjudicator thought Admiral should do more to put things right.  He thought  the reasons 
behind the car hire companys decision wouldnt have happened if Admiral had extended the 
use of car hire as it should have. So he recommended Admiral pay Mr L a further £250 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. He also recommended Admiral  
write a letter  to Mr L explaining that Mr L reasonably thought  the hire car would be with him 
for the life of the repairs, that the repairs were  completed while he was away  and that it 
shouldve extended  the hire car cover until he was back home.  The letter should also explain 
that Admiral knew Mr L was away when they authorised a stolen vehicle process and this 
was its error.
Mr L accepted  the adjudicators findings. Admiral didnt agree.  In summary it said it had paid 
Mr L too much compensation for other  complaints it had dealt with. So overall  it felt Mr L had 
been fairly compensated for all of his complaints. 
Ref: DRN64962672It said its reply  to Mr Ls complaint acknowledged  that it should  have  extended the car hire. 
So Admiral  isnt prepared  to issue another letter. 
As Admiral didnt agree, the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remaining  issue  for me to decide is whether Admiral  has fairly compensated Mr L for its 
part in a hire car companys decision not to offer him a hire car in future. 
Admiral acknowledged  that Mr L couldnt  get in contact with the handler dealing with his 
case despite several attempts. Its notes show  that it spoke to Mr L on 27 December 2018 
and agreed he could be in car hire until the rectification repairs  to his car had been done. Its 
notes then show attempted  calls to the AR between 8 and 11 January 2019.  There are no 
details as to the purpose of the calls. There isnt anything to show me that Mr L was aware  
that his car was ready for collection and to expect  the hire car to be collected. 
On 12 January 2019 Mr L called Admiral and complained that the hire car company had 
come to his home address to collect the hire car. He explained that he was away  and 
returning home on 16 January 2019.  He said there were  ongoing  issues  with the repairs  to 
his car which  he was unhappy about. The hire car company had been able to speak  to Mr L 
when visiting the home  as his mother called him on 12 January 2019.  It attempted  to take 
payment for the hire car but Mr Ls card declined. Admiral told Mr L it would look at his 
complaint.
On 14 January 2019 the hire car company told Admiral it had tried to collect the car on 
12 January 2019  and tried to take payment for all its outstanding charges from Mr Ls card 
but was unsuccessful.  It asked Admiral if it should seize  the vehicle from the customer as it 
hasnt received payment. 
Admiral replied to say it would be ok to seize the vehicle even though  Admiral  was aware 
that Mr L was away until 16 January 2019. I think Admiral acted unreasonably here. On 
17 January 2019  Admiral  agreed to uphold  Mr Ls complaint that it should have extended car 
hire until he returned   and agreed to cover the outstanding charges. 
I know the hire car company said there were other reasons as to why it didnt want to allow 
future car hire to Mr L. And as the adjudicator explained, we cant decide on whether  the 
actions of the hire car company were reasonable or not. But from what Ive seen, there was 
one issue before the visit on 12 January  2019.  The car hire company said Mr L had 
complained about a fuel issue.  It seemed  to agree  to provide a hire car to Mr L after this. So 
on balance I dont think this was a reason which led to its decision not to offer future  hire to 
Mr L.
Ultimately if Admiral had extended  the car hire to 16 January 2019  which it accepts it 
should have done  I dont think the reasons behind the hire car companys decision to 
refuse future  hire wouldve come  about.  So I think Admiral has contributed to the decision 
made by the hire car company to refuse future hire to Mr L. I therefore think  Admiral hasnt 
fairly compensated Mr L for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service. 
Ref: DRN64962673What Admiral has paid Mr L in compensation in relation to separate  complaints isnt 
something I can take into account when deciding a fair compensation award for this 
complaint. 
So I think a fairer level of compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused should  
be £250 as the adjudicator recommended. This is in addition to the £150 already  paid.  And I 
think its reasonable for Admiral to provide a letter to Mr L as set out by the adjudicator which  
Ive detailed below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  to do the following:
Provide Mr L with a letter  to say it knew Mr L was away when it authorised a stolen 
vehicle process with the hire car company.  And that Mr L reasonably  thought the hire 
car would  be with him for the duration  of the repairs, that the repairs were completed 
while he was away and that Admiral shouldve extended the hire car cover  until hed 
returned.
Pay Mr L £250 compensation in addition to the £150 it paid him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr L 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6496267