K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that Llewellyn Pennant (trading as Your Mortgage 1st) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance alongside her mortgage.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Ms Cs complaint in January 2020.  I said I was minded not 
to uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
When I issued my provisional decision,  none of the paperwork from the time of sale was 
available. In response to my provisional  decision,  Ms C has helpfully sent in copies of the 
paperwork she still has. In summary, the paperwork shows that the PPI policy started in 
January 2008,  that it covered her for unemployment  only and was free for the first 6 months. 
When I issued my provisional decision,  I was under the impression that the policy covered 
her for accident, sickness and unemployment and that it started  in December 2007.
Llewellyn Pennant also responded to my provisional  decision and said it had nothing further 
to add. 
I was aware when I issued my provisional decision that the insurer had refunded  some  of 
Ms Cs payment protection insurance  premiums in 2015. This was for the period July 2012  to 
March 2015. They were seemingly refunded on the basis  that Ms C wasnt eligible for the 
PPI during that period.
Ms C got back in contact  with the insurer again in 2018. She said that as her circumstances 
hadnt changed throughout, she must have been ineligible  all the time and so mis-sold the 
policy from the outset.  The insurer took the view that the policy couldnt have been mis-sold. 
It said if the policy was mis-sold from the outset, it wouldnt have been liable to pay back  the 
premiums from 2012 to 2015.
Our adjudicator recommended  upholding the complaint against Llewellyn Pennant.
Among other  things, Llewellyn Pennant said that this wasnt a PPI policy and Ms C wasnt  an 
eligible complainant. It asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not going  to uphold 
Ms Cs complaint. My reasons are, in the main, the same as set out in my provisional  
decision. Although,  because  Ms Cs policy only covered her for unemployment, some  of 
what I said before about why the cover was suitable  if she was off work sick or had an 
accident no longer  applies. I have set out below why I am not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
eligible complainant
Ive first considered whether Ms C is an eligible complainant whose complaint I can decide.  
Im satisfied that Ms C is an eligible  complainant based on what Ive seen. She was sold PPI, 
an insurance product  in January 2008,  and Llewellyn  Pennant sold it to her.
was Ms C sold PPI? 
Ref: DRN66228122Ive next considered whether the product Llewellyn Pennant sold Ms C was payment 
protection insurance. The policy document  Llewellyn  Pennant sent us, referred to Mortgage 
Payment Protection  Insurance  which  is simply  a form of PPI intended to protect mortgage 
repayments. The key facts document Ms C has recently sent in also refers to Mortgage  
Payment Protection  Insurance. From  all the paperwork Ive seen about  the insurance,  it 
looks clear to me that it was PPI.
missing paperwork
Llewellyn Pennant said it no longer  had a copy of Ms Cs paperwork from the time of sale.  
Businesses often only keep records for six years.  This policy  was sold much  longer ago than 
that, so it didnt surprise me that Llewellyn Pennant no longer held these  records.
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Cs complaint because Llewellyn Pennant  no longer had Ms Cs 
paperwork from the time of sale. So, our adjudicator  wasnt satisfied that more  likely than not 
the policy hadnt been mis-sold. She said Llewellyn Pennant hadnt shown that Ms C had 
been given the opportunity to actively confirm she wanted PPI, it wasnt clear  the costs  of the 
PPI had been set out separately and there  was little evidence  to show that Ms C had been 
made aware  this was a separate and distinct product  from the mortgage. The paperwork that 
Ms C has sent in following my provisional  decision helps here.
refund of contributions & eligibility for PPI
In 2015, Ms C accepted a refund of contributions from the insurer  for premiums paid 
between July 2012 to March 2015. This would suggest that at that time she had no concerns 
about the policy being mis-sold from the outset. Looking at the correspondence the insurer  
sent Ms C in June  2018, she appeared to accept then that the policy was not mis-sold by the 
company that sold her the insurance  (that being  Llewellyn Pennant).
The June 2018 letter said this: 
You recently contacted  our office as you felt that the policy  had been mis-sold as your 
circumstances had always  been  the same  and therefore, you have never been eligible for 
the policy. We explained that you would  need  to raise your concerns  with the company who 
arranged the insurance.
 However you state that they have confirmed that the cover  was not mis-sold, and you are 
happy with this. You have confirmed that you want us to refund the rest of the premiums you 
have paid.
The basis  of Ms Cs mis-selling complaint in 2018  seemed to be about  her eligibility to take 
out the insurance, rather than not being given good  enough information about  PPI or her not 
agreeing to take it. So, I have looked  at her eligibility very carefully, particularly as she said 
in her complaint form to us that the insurer had not explained to her why I was not eligible. 
Ms C seemed not to understand why she might  be ineligible herself. This service sought  to 
clarify the position  with the insurer, but did not get a meaningful response on this point.
From what  shes  told us, Ms C was in work at the time she took out PPI. The paperwork 
shes recently sent in shows she was employed and that correspondence was sent to her at 
her work email  address. So, I think it likely that Ms C was eligible to take out unemployment 
cover.
Ref: DRN66228123was it made  clear PPI was optional?
Looking at the paperwork Ms C has recently  sent in, I can see that she received a separate  
quote for unemployment  cover. She was told it was free for the first 6 months and was told 
after that she would have to pay £23.98 per month. The cover she took out included not only 
mortgage payment  protection, but a separate amount  of benefit for income protection. She 
didnt take accident and sickness  cover. So, I think it likely that there  wouldve  been some 
discussion about the type and amount of cover Ms C wanted. I think  she probably  wouldve 
understood she had a choice about the cover available, and opted  to take the cover  that 
best suited her needs. In reaching this conclusion, Ive also taken into account that 
Ms C didnt mention  that shed not been  told the policy was optional when she brought the 
complaint to us. And she appears to have told the insurer back  in 2018, that she accepted  
the company selling the insurance  had not mis-sold it to her.
was PPI suitable?
To be fair to Ms C Ive proceeded on the basis that this policy was recommended  to her by 
Llewellyn Pennant. This means that Llewellyn Pennant had to consider whether  the policy 
was suitable for her as well as providing  her with clear and fair information  about it, so she 
could decide if she wanted to buy it. I cant see that it was unsuitable for her at the time she 
took it out. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits  she received if she was 
made unemployed. 
Ms C said her parents  couldve helped  with her repayments if she was out of work. Whilst I 
accept her parents  may have wanted  to, help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when 
the time comes. So, I havent  placed  much reliance  on this.
In my provisional decision,  I said that I couldnt know what  Ms C was told about the cost of 
the policy. From the paperwork shes recently provided, I can now see that she was told up 
front that PPI was free for the first six months and was sent a quote  telling  her how much  
unemployment cover  would cost her if she decided to take it out. She was also sent a letter 
setting out the cost of the policy,  along  with her policy certificate. Ms C hasnt said the policy 
was unaffordable and I cant see that it was. Given the PPI was protecting  Ms Cs mortgage 
repayments and therefore her home,  I think it couldve provided her with a valuable  benefit.
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  think  that Ms C has lost out because  of anything  
Llewellyn Pennant did wrong when the policy was sold to her. I cant see that if she had 
been given better information she wouldnt have purchased PPI.
So, in all the circumstances,  I cant see that this policy  was mis-sold PPI by Llewellyn 
Pennant at the outset. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ref: DRN66228124ombudsman
Ref: DRN6622812