K822xcomplaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about nine payday  loans Sunny provided to Mr C between October 2017 
and November 2017. 
Two adjudicators have  looked at Mr Cs complaint  the second adjudicator thought that 
loans six to nine shouldnt have been  provided to Mr C.
Sunny has made an offer on loans seven  to nine, but Mr C hasnt accepted this, so the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
Ref: DRN65379732the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, by the time Sunny  provided Mr C with loan six, Sunny 
shouldve realised that he was likely to be having problems managing his money  and was 
unlikely to be able to continue to repay his loans in a sustainable  manner.
And I agree. Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr C had taken out in three  weeks   and I think 
that the rapidness of his applications shouldve alerted Sunny to the possibility that he was 
having financial difficulties, and that he may have had issues repaying this, and any 
subsequent loans Sunny  provided.  And therefore,  Sunny  shouldnt  have continued  the 
lending relationship at this point.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loans six to nine and Sunny should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans six to nine;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans six to nine from Mr Cs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6537973