K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr R took out a Barclays credit card in 1999  through  the post. A few weeks  later, Barclays 
sold him PPI over the phone to protect  his card repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr R didnt agree, so the case  
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Rs case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr R that he had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
his agreement before adding  it. Unfortunately, Barclays hasnt been  able to provide much 
information from the time of the sale. Although the PPI was sold over the phone  Barclays no 
longer holds a call recording or any call scripts its adviser might  have followed. Bearing in 
mind the time thats passed  since the sale, I dont consider it unreasonable  that Barclays  
cant provide more.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr R says about  how the policy  was sold, including  that he 
was pressured  into buying it. But Im mindful  that the policy  was sold after the credit card 
account had already started. This might  have indicated to Mr R that he didnt have to take 
out PPI with his card.  
In addition, its now a number of years  since  the policy was sold. In my view that makes it 
more difficult for me to rely on what Mr R remembers from the time. It could be that  
understandably after all this time  he was told he didnt have to take the PPI but simply 
doesnt recall that now.
Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think  Barclays didnt make it clear to Mr R that 
he had a choice  about taking out PPI. I think it likely the policy was presented as optional  to 
him, and that Mr R then chose to take it. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons  why I should uphold Mr Rs complaint but I 
dont think there are. Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr R. That favours  him 
because it meant Barclays, among other  things, should have  looked  into whether it was right 
for him. 
I cant say for sure what  checks Barclays made. And I dont have a copy of the specific 
policy terms from the time. But, from what I know of Mr Rs circumstances and of what  such  
policies tended to say, I think the PPI was right for him. I say that because:
Ref: DRN68588452It seems  Mr R would  have been eligible for the cover. And there was nothing  to 
suggest he was affected by the exclusions to, or limits on, the policy.
Its possible that Mr R was entitled to some  sick pay and redundancy pay from his 
employer. But the PPI benefits would  potentially have paid out on top of those 
payments, and for longer,  at up to 12 months  per claim for disability or 
unemployment. So I think it provided Mr R with useful additional protection. 
 
The PPI appears  to have been  affordable to Mr R. And it was flexible in that he could 
have cancelled it at any time if he decided he no longer  wanted  it.
As well as checking if the PPI was right for him, Barclays also should have given Mr R clear 
information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about  buying it. I dont 
know what steps Barclays took to do this. And its possible some things werent explained as 
clearly as they should have been. But, as Ive said, I think  its likely Mr R agreed to the cover  
and it looks to me as if it was right for him and was affordable. So I dont think better 
information would have affected  his decision. That is, I think  hed still have bought  the policy.
Overall, I dont  believe Mr Rs lost out because of how Barclays  sold him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6858845