K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr G between July 2016 
and November 2018. Mr G borrowed amounts  ranging between £500  and £2,000  to be 
repaid in weekly or monthly instalments. The repayments for loans one and two overlapped. 
There were short gaps  between Mr G repaying  his loans and borrowing again for increased 
amounts. From what  I can see, theres  a balance still outstanding on the final loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint in part and thought the loans from three onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Satsuma disagreed and so the complaint was passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN64349252Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Satsuma asked Mr G for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr G said he earned between £3,500 and £4,000  a month. He said his 
monthly expenditure was between £2,000 and £2,250. This left him with a monthly 
disposable income between £1,500 and £1,750. 
For loan one, given  the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Gs circumstances at the 
time and his history  with Satsuma, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate to ask him for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt 
anything in the information Mr G provided  or the information Satsuma shouldve been aware 
of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what Mr G was saying. So I 
cant say it was wrong for Satsuma to have provided  loan one.
I think Satsuma should have carried out better checks from loan two onwards. Mr G had 
borrowed again for an increased amount  whilst loan one was still running. His highest 
expected monthly  repayments were almost £400.  I think Satsuma should then have verified 
what Mr G had told it about his circumstances. But I havent been provided with enough  
information to show what sufficient checks would have found. So I cant  say it was wrong for 
Satsuma to have  provided  loan two.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr G, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Gs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
three. I say this because:
By loan three, Mr G had been  borrowing from Satsuma for over a year with no significant 
breaks. I think  the pattern of his borrowing  showed that hed become persistently reliant 
on short-term loans  and further  borrowing was unsustainable.  
From  loan three onwards Mr G was provided  with a new loan within  days  of settling a 
previous one. So Satsuma ought  to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr G was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Gs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN64349253Mr G wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Satsuma. Loan five was 
taken out over two years  since  Mr Gs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr G had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Satsuma over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr G lost out because Satsuma  continued to provide borrowing  from loan three 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Gs ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans three to five and Satsuma  should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans three to five, offset this against  any 
principal still owing  for loan five, pay Mr G any remainder or set up an affordable 
repayment plan to clear any balance remaining;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan three  onwards  means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans three  to five should be removed from 
Mr Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Gs complaint. I 
require Provident  Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  to pay Mr G compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6434925