K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  HSBC  UK Bank Plc gave  her unsuitable advice on her investment plans 
as they carried  more risk than she was willing to take with her money.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 March  2020, setting out why I think the 
complaint should  be upheld . I invited  both parties to make any further submissions by 
16 March 2020  before I finalised  matters.  
My provisional decision forms part of this final decision so Ive attached  it below. HSBC  said 
it didnt have anything  further to add. Miss A hasnt responded to my provisional decision.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has nothing further to add and Miss A hasnt responded to my provisional  
decision, I have  no reason  to change my mind.  For the reasons Ive given in my provisional 
findings I uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay the 
amount calculated as set out in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss A complains  HSBC  UK Bank Plc gave her unsuitable advice on her investment plans as they 
carried more  risk than she was willing to take with her money.
background
In September 2017, Miss A met with a premier relationship  manager at a HSBC branch to review her 
existing investment  bonds.  
Ref: DRN63629462She was in her 60s and receiving a pension at the time. She had £29,659.94  in savings, cash  ISA 
and current accounts which was all with HSBC.  And £44,107.67 in an investment bond. The adviser 
noted £5,447.58 should be excluded from investment for emergencies as well as a further £3,121 
which was earmarked for a future tax bill. This left about  £64,052.10 the adviser  recommended 
Miss A invest as follows: 
£19,999 in HSBC stocks  and shares ISA (HSBC World Selection Conservative Portfolio C 
Accumulation)
£18,107.61 in HSBC OEIC (HSBC World  Selection Conservative Portfolio C Accumulation)
£2,880 in HSBC  flexible  retirement account (HSBC World Selection Conservative  Portfolio 
P Accumulation)
Retain £23,065.49 in secure cash funds 
The investments started around  October 2017. It seems Miss As financial  situation changed around 
December 2018, so she discussed  cashing  in her investment to buy an apartment. 
Miss A complains  about her stocks and shares ISA and her OEIC investments where she made  an 
overall loss of around £1,329.99. She says she wanted a safe investment  knowing it would  
probably return a lower rate of interest than a riskier investment. She says she was not prepared for 
a huge loss. 
HSBC acknowledges that despite  Miss A completing a risk questionnaire which showed she was 
prepared to take a moderate level of risk, based on its discussions with Miss A it determined that a 
lower risk investment was more suitable for her. It says its recommendation for the world selection 
conservative portfolio  met Miss As requirement. It says she was looking to invest  for 10 years with no 
plans for the money  and it made it clear to her the potential  fall in value. 
Miss A was unhappy with HSBCs response, so she brought her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
considered what had happened  but they didnt think HSBC needed to do anymore. They thought HSBCs 
investment recommendation was suitable for Miss As needs and the risks were outlined in the product 
literature. Miss A disagreed. She says she thought the investments carried more risk than she was willing  
to take as she wanted to preserve her capital .   
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I intend  to uphold Miss As complaint  - Ill explain my 
reasons why.
Miss A says her investment carried more risk than she was willing to take with her money. HSBC 
agrees that following a discussion with Miss A at the time of the investment, she was looking for a low 
risk investment. Ive looked at the key features for these funds at a point close to when  Miss A 
invested in 2017. The recommendation would  roughly have contained the following split of assets:
Global corporate fixed interest: 33% 
Global government fixed interest: 8%
Emerging markets fixed interest: 11%
International equities: 27% 
Global high yield fixed interest: 5%
Other assets: 16%  
There is no one single answer to constructing a portfolio.  The relative proportions of cash  to bonds 
(which include government bonds), and the relative proportions of UK to overseas equities may vary. 
But in my view and taking the circumstances of this complaint into account, this fund exposed  Miss As 
investment to more  risk than she was willing to take. I say this because  the make-up of this specific fund 
Ref: DRN63629463meant that it was almost entirely  based  abroad with a significant exposure to both international equities  
and international corporate  bonds. I dont think this fund appears to align with what  Miss A expected 
given her low attitude  to risk. 
All of Miss As money was invested in this one fund  including her pension. This seems to be an 
excessive exposure to one fund and one fund manager. I acknowledge and appreciate that the fund 
itself is diversified but given its international exposure and the fact that all her available liquid assets 
were tied up in this one fund, I think this also increased  the risk to her investment if things went  
wrong. 
Im not persuaded  Miss A understood the effect  on the potential long-term growth of her investments 
of the tax charge on surrendering her previous  bond compared  to the increased charges  this fund 
would incur. I think this wouldve been key to her understanding whether  a change in her investment 
was necessary or worthwhile.
Looking at the financial  planning letter I havent seen a clear reason  or rationale as to why all her money 
needed to be invested in this particular international  fund nor is there any clear  evidence which shows 
Miss A wanted to have  such  a large  international exposure. Given Miss As background, her attitude to 
risk and what she was looking to do with her money, Im not currently persuaded  investing such a 
significant proportion  of her liquid assets in one fund, which itself was mainly invested abroad,  was right 
for her. I think on balance, it exposed her money to more risk that she thought she was taking  or willing 
to take. And while Miss A may have been looking  to invest for 10 years with no immediate plans for the 
money, Im not currently persuaded this meant that she was happy  to take a greater risk with her 
money.
So, without such evidence and there being no dispute that Miss A was looking for a low risk 
investment, Im not persuaded it would be fair to conclude that the advice HSBC provided  was 
suitable for her needs.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Miss A as 
close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable advice.
I think  Miss A would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what  she would  have 
done, but I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Miss A's 
circumstances and objectives when  she invested. 
what should HSBC do? 
To compensate Miss A fairly,  HSBC must:
Compare the performance of Miss A's investment with that of the benchmark shown  below and pay 
the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is 
greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
HSBC should  also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
ISA and OEIC 
- HSBC World 
Selection 
Conservative  
Portfolio C  surrenderedfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
Ref: DRN63629464Accumulation Index;  for the other 
half: average  rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondssettlement
flexible 
retirement  
account  - 
HSBC World 
Selection 
Conservative  
Portfolio P 
Accumulation still in 
existence  for half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index;  for the other 
half: average  rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of final 
decision8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid from the investment  at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, HSBC should use the 
monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  
should be applied  to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Miss A wanted capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who wanted  to 
achieve a reasonable return  without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market  Income total return index) is a mix of diversified  indices representing different asset 
classes, mainly  UK equities and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return. 
I consider that Miss A's risk profile was in between,  in the sense that she was prepared  to take a 
small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would  
reasonably put Miss A into that position. It does  not mean that Miss A would have invested 50% 
of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of index tracker  fund. Rather, I consider 
this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects  the sort of return  Miss A could have obtained 
from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude. 
The additional  interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation  money since the end 
date. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is that I intend to uphold  this complaint.              
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay the amount  calculated  as set out above.
Ref: DRN63629465Asia Khanam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6362946