K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about how Tesco Personal Finance PLC handled his claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 in relation to car engine parts and repairs.
background
In late 2017, Mr C used  his Tesco credit card (twice) to pay for repairs  to, and parts for, his 
car engine,  which had a fault. He paid £550  and £858. Mr C says the wrong  parts were 
supplied. It is not in dispute that the repair  was botched, and that this caused a second  fault.  
In February 2018,  Mr C asked Tesco for compensation  under section 75, which (put simply) 
makes Tesco jointly and severally liable for any breach of contract by a third party  in relation 
to goods and services  paid for with a Tesco credit card. After an independent report was 
obtained, Tesco upheld  Mr Cs claim, and offered to cover the cost of having a new engine 
supplied and fitted (£9,643)  and the cost of the report (£100). Mr C accepted the offer in 
June, and the new engine was installed, but then in November 2018 he brought  this 
complaint to our Service.
Mr C complains about a number of issues. He complains that Tesco  insisted that he get an 
independent report  before it would  uphold his claim, and also that Tesco gave him conflicting 
information at different  times about whether he needed  a report or not. This caused  delay. 
Tesco says he has waited  too long to complain  about that. Mr C says that Tesco initially 
quoted the wrong figure for the replacement engine. Tesco says this was not its fault but was 
based on incorrect information provided by the relevant garage.  He complains that the 
compensation does  not include a refund for the parts he bought. Tesco  says if it did then he 
would have had his car repaired  for free, instead  of being restored to the position hed have 
been in if there had been no breach of contract. He complains  that Tesco did not refund him 
his taxi expenses; Tesco says it told him it would consider his claim if he provided evidence 
of his expenses, but he did not. Mr C says Tesco coerced  him into agreeing to a 
compensation figure he didnt agree with, by telling him it was the only way he could  get his 
car back.  Tesco accepted this was wrong,  and paid him some compensation. Mr C 
complains that Tesco  required him to allow  the garage to inspect  the car before it would pay 
for the new engine. Tesco  says this was in order to assist it in its own claim against the 
garage, but it had agreed to settle  the claim once there was an agreed inspection date, 
instead of waiting for the inspection to be carried  out. Finally, Mr C also complained about 
various customer service issues (such as not getting a call back as arranged,  and not 
receiving a data subject request on time), for which Tesco also paid him compensation. For 
all the issues Tesco admits it got wrong,  it has paid him a total of £450.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought Tesco  had paid enough 
compensation for the errors it had accepted making,  and she did not think  Tesco had done 
anything else wrong. In particular, she thought that the replacement  engine already put Mr C 
in a better position  than he would have been in if the original engine  had been  properly 
repaired, and that refunding what hed paid would  be improving his position  still further. She 
didnt think Tesco had been wrong to decline to reimburse his consequential losses  without  
evidence, and Mr C had destroyed  the evidence while his claim was being considered.
Mr C did not accept that opinion. He insisted  he was still out of pocket, and asked for a 
refund. He emphasised that he had been  under great stress and that the compensation paid 
so far was not enough. He asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN67929882my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco dealt  with Mr Cs complaint about being required to get an independent  report in its 
final response letter, and related issues, on 12 April 2018. That letter  gave him six months to 
complain to our Service, in accordance with rules made  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority. 
Mr C did not bring this complaint until 30 November, which was too late. Mr C says he did 
not receive that letter, or a follow-up  letter in May. The six months  runs from when the final 
response letter is sent, not from when it is received, and Tesco isnt liable for the letter  being  
lost in the mail. 
The rules  say I can still consider a late complaint  if I think  that the delay was the result of 
exceptional circumstances.  But I dont think exceptional circumstances apply in this case. 
The reason  I think  that is because  the outcome of that complaint was that Tesco credited 
Mr Cs account with £50, and that would  have shown up on his monthly statement. If Mr C 
had checked his statement, he would have seen the credit from Tesco,  and this should have 
either made him realise that his complaint had been  dealt  with, or prompted him to ask 
Tesco what  the £50 was for. In either  case, he would then have known that it was 
compensation for his complaint, and he would have learned that he had six months in which 
to complain to our Service if he was not satisfied. So I cannot  address those issues in this 
decision  that is, Tesco requiring an independent report, giving Mr C contradictory 
information about what he needed  to do, and any delay which  resulted. I recognise  that Mr C 
will be disappointed by that, but I hope  he will find some solace in the fact that Tesco  
reimbursed him £100 for the cost of the report,  as well as the fact that the report  was the 
evidence which led Tesco to decide  to uphold his claim.
When Tesco  first told Mr C that it would uphold his claim, it told him that the total 
compensation would be £8,411.06. The correct figure was actually  £9,743.52.  This appears 
to have happened because the garage which was replacing the engine told Tesco  that Mr C 
would be paid £1,332.46 (the difference)  for the old engine. When that turned out not to be 
true, Tesco covered the full price  of the engine. That misunderstanding is unfortunate, but 
I dont think it is really  Tescos fault. 
The independent report concluded that the engine parts Mr C had bought were not the ones 
he had paid for, and that using the wrong  parts may have caused further damage to the 
engine. This is the breach of contract  which led Tesco to uphold  Mr Cs claim under  section  
75. Mr C argues that because he did not receive the parts  he had paid for, he should  be 
refunded what he paid for them   this is the first invoice. And then, as a result of the wrong 
parts being  supplied, the same garage  sold Mr C replacement parts  this is the second 
invoice. Mr C says he shouldnt have  to pay for the same parts  twice,  because if there had 
been no breach  of contract then he would  only have had to buy them once.
I do not agree with Mr C that both invoices should be refunded,  because  that would mean 
that the car had been repaired for free, which would not have happened if there had been no 
breach of contract.  He would always have had to pay for the new parts whatever happened.  
But I can see his point  about buying  the same parts twice. If the correct parts had been 
supplied the first time he bought them, he would not have received a second  invoice at all. 
He would have  paid £550 and got what he paid for. Since my starting  point must be to put 
Mr C in the same position he would have  been in if there had been no breach of contract, 
then my starting point  should be to tell Tesco to refund what  he paid for the second invoice.
Ref: DRN67929883However, it is impossible to put Mr C back in the position he should have been in, because  
he now has a new engine,  instead of an old engine which  has been repaired. The new 
engine will last longer  than the original  engine would have lasted, and this will save Mr C 
money in the long run. So it would  clearly not be fair of me to order Tesco  to refund the 
second invoice  in full. I have therefore considered whether this means Tesco  should  refund 
part of the second invoice, or none  of it.
The facts  that Mr C has paid more than he expected to pay, more  than he initially agreed  to 
pay, and more than he should  have paid, to have  a working car, all weigh in favour of a 
partial refund.  Also, he didnt ask for a better  engine; he just wanted to repair the one he 
had. On the other hand, he not only has a better  engine which  will last longer and be 
cheaper to maintain, but Tesco has already paid approximately eleven times the cost of the 
second invoice  on covering the cost of supplying and fitting  the new engine.
Taking all of the above factors into account,  on balance I think that Tesco  has done enough 
to fairly resolve Mr Cs section 75 claim.
Tesco was entitled  to ask Mr C for evidence of his consequential losses.  Its not 
unreasonable to ask for taxi receipts.  Mr C says he had kept the receipts, but then he threw 
them away,  while  his section 75 claim was still ongoing.  Nobody told him to do that. Im not 
going to tell Tesco to cover his taxi costs.
Mr C says Tesco told him on the phone that if he signed its form accepting  its offer of 
compensation, then he thereby would waive his right to complain to our Service. He 
therefore felt under  pressure to sign something  he did not agree  with, in order  to get his car 
back so he could go on holiday. He describes this as an ultimatum.  Tesco  accepts that its 
call handler did tell him this, and that it was wrong.  That is one of the issues  for which  it paid 
him compensation.
Our investigator still asked Tesco for the recording of the relevant phone call. Tesco  said it 
had spoken to Mr C on the phone over 100 times in a period of about  four months, and so it 
didnt know which of these calls was the right one, so it didnt send any. I dont  think  thats a 
good excuse,  because when its complaint handler listened to the call and upheld  Mr Cs 
complaint about  it in July 2018,  he should have identified which call it was in the complaint 
notes, in case it was needed again. Nevertheless,  as what Mr C says about  the call is not in 
dispute, I dont  think I need to hear it. I will accept that he was given incorrect information, 
and that the call made him feel threatened. That was an error by Tesco.  On the other hand, 
its unlikely that Mr C would have acted differently if he had been  told the correct information,  
because he still needed to get his car back. So I think he would still have  signed  the form; it 
would just have  been a less stressful experience  for him, because he would have  been  
secure in the knowledge that he could still appeal  to our Service. I think  that does  deserve  
compensation, but I think that the £400 Tesco paid him in September 2018  is enough  for that 
issue and for the other customer service issues.
Finally, I completely understand why Mr C resented being told that the garage which 
breached its contract  with him, and in whom he had lost confidence, had to be given a 
chance to inspect his car, before Tesco would agree to pay for the new engine. I think Tesco  
was right to back down from that position,  and to agree to pay once an inspection date had 
been agreed. But I think Tesco was entitled to insist  on the inspection, because  under 
section 75 Tesco is entitled to take the garage  to court to get a refund of what it has had to 
pay for Mr Cs new engine,  and for the independent  report. This was explained in the form 
Ref: DRN67929884he signed, and in Tescos July final response  letter. If the garage was denied  the opportunity 
to inspect the car, then it might be prejudiced in its defence  against  Tescos court action, and 
this could in turn result in Tesco being  disadvantaged by whatever measures the court took 
to remedy that problem. So I dont think Tesco was being unfair.
my final decision
My decision  is that Tesco  Personal Finance PLC has done  enough  to resolve  this complaint, 
and I do not require it to do more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.  
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6792988