K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Right  Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd (RCIB) mis-sold her car insurance policies. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 September  2019, setting out why I 
think that RCIB needs to pay £269.49  if it hasnt  already done  so. I invited both parties  to 
make any further submissions by 19 September 2019 before I finalised matters. 
My provisional decision forms part of this final decision so is attached below. RCIB didnt 
have anything further to add. But Miss H disagreed with my provisional  decision. In short, 
she says she feels as though she was ripped off as her priority was to have a good personal  
accident and legal  cover  in place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, whilst Miss H has provided us with quotes she 
obtained through comparison  websites  which shows she couldve paid less, the details of 
what these policies offered have not been  provided.  So I cant be sure that the policies were 
like for like. But I can see these policies didnt provide protected no claims discount and the 
policy Miss H had with RCIB  did. I also dont  think they provide the higher level of protection  
Miss H was after. I say this because if they did I think  she would have purchased one of the 
cheaper policies  rather than the ones  through RCIB.  I therefore think its likely she would 
have paid more  than the quotes provided.  
So taking everything into consideration, Ive no reason to depart  from the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision. I think the offer RCIB has made of £269.49 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd 
needs to pay £269.49 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62813242Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss H says Right Choice Insurance  Brokers  Ltd (RCIB) mis-sold her car insurance policies. 
background
In April 2014  Miss H took out a comprehensive car insurance policy  through RCIB. She renewed  her 
policy through  RCIB in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Miss H says in 2018 when she was renewing  the policy, 
she realised  RCIB had provided  incorrect information since  2014.  
Miss H says that RCIB mis-sold her car insurance  policies since 2014 as it said she was covered up 
to £100,000 worth of legal expenses cover and up to £75,000 worth  of personal  accident cover each 
year. She says if shed known  the correct  limits she would  have brought  another policy  elsewhere 
which had higher  policy  limits.  Because of this Miss H would like a refund of all the premiums shes 
paid. 
Ref: DRN62813243RCIB admits it provided Miss H with incorrect information regarding the amount of personal accident 
and legal expenses cover.  It says the policy  information was sent to Miss H following  the phone calls 
so it was her responsibility to ensure she was happy with the cover provided. It offered to refund  
£269.49 which included broker  commission, charges and fees to apologise for the error.
Miss H wasnt  happy  with RCIBs response so she brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators considered  her complaint and didnt think RCIB had done enough to put things right.  
They recommended that if there were any retrospective claims, that RCIB should  act as if it was the 
insurer and pay up to the amount it said the insurer  would  cover. Miss H didnt agree. She says she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with her insurance  through RCIB if she knew the real extent of the cover 
provided by the policies. 
As Miss H didnt agree,  the complaint has been passed to me.        
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I intend  to not uphold  Miss Hs complaint.  I 
understand this will come  as a disappointment to her but Ill explain my reasons why.
Miss H purchased  fully comprehensive car insurance which included  personal accident and legal  
expenses cover. Under industry guidelines  RCIB had a responsibility to provide information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading when it sold Miss H the policies. 
While there arent call recordings for each of the sales RCIB has agreed it misinformed  Miss H at the 
point of sale in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 regarding  personal accident and legal  expenses cover.  So 
Im satisfied it hasnt provided  Miss H with information which was clear, fair and not misleading.  
Miss H asked for a refund of her premiums as the policies  had been mis-sold. But shes had the 
benefit of the insurance. So I dont think this would be fair or reasonable to order RCIB to issue a full 
refund of all her premiums.  
Miss H has told us if she knew the correct limits of cover  she wouldve continued  to search the market 
for a policy which offered  a higher limit of personal accident  and legal expenses cover. Miss H has 
provided us with quotes  she obtained through comparison websites  at the time she was renewing  her 
car insurance policies, other than for 2017,  which  shows she couldve paid less. 
The details of what these  policies  offered  have not been provided and I cant  be sure that the policies 
were like for like. That being said I can see these  policies  didnt provide protected no claims discount 
and the policy Miss H had with RCIB did. I also dont think they provide the higher level of protection  
Miss H was after. I say this because if they did I think she should have purchased one of the cheaper 
policies rather than the ones  through RCIB. So Im not satisfied theyre like for like quotes. Miss H has 
also said she would have searched  around for a policy that provided the highest level of cover.  I 
therefore think  its likely she would have paid more than the quotes provided. For this reason it 
wouldnt be fair to tell RCIB to refund  the difference in premium to the quotes  provided either. 
 
I understand Miss H fortunately hasnt had the need to make a claim on her car insurance policy  over 
the years.  So I dont  think  telling RCIB to act as if it was the insurer on any retrospective claims  would  
be useful to Miss H. I say this because she wouldve already been aware  of any personal  accident 
claims if there were  any. So I wont be telling RCIB to do this. 
So the only thing left for me to decide  is any distress and inconvenience this has caused Miss H. 
RCIB has offered  to refund  broker commission,  charges  and fees.  I think  the offer recognises  any 
upset caused and it compensates Miss H for the incorrect information given  during the sales. For this 
reason I wont  be asking RCIB to do anything else. I appreciate this isnt the outcome  Miss H was 
hoping for but I cant reasonably ask RCIB  to do any more. 
Ref: DRN62813244my provisional  decision
I understand Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd has offered £269.49 its likely Ill conclude that this is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My provisional decision is likely to be that 
Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd needs to pay £269.49 if it hasnt already done  so. 
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6281324