K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that Santander UK Plc didnt tell her an additional  fee would be payable 
when she sent some money to a relative  abroad. 
background
Ms G went into her local Santander branch and asked to transfer  £150  to a relative abroad.  
She was told thered  be a £25 charge which she accepted. But when the money arrived  
another £35 had been deducted.  And shes unhappy  her relative  only received £90.
Santander said the terms and conditions of Ms Gs account say charges may be applied by 
the merchant  or bank  that carries out a payment.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
Santanders terms and conditions do say charges may be applied by the merchant or 
bank carrying out the payment. Even so it doesnt  seem  fair or reasonable for Ms Gs 
relative to have received only £90 from the amount  sent.
Santander has asked  if Ms G has raised the issue with the third party  bank or 
requested a refund. But it isnt reasonable to expect Ms G to chase the third party 
bank in this way.
Santanders staff shouldve made  Ms G aware there  could be an additional charge 
and if itd done so its reasonable to say Ms G wouldnt have gone  ahead with the 
transfer. The advisor wouldnt be expected to know the exact amount of this charge 
but she wasnt made aware of there being  a further  charge.
Hes not recommending any compensation but Santander  should cover the £35 
charge Ms G incurred.
Santander doesnt agree. It says the advisor remembers  Ms G asking a lot of questions  and 
is sure she asked about the fees she would incur.  The advisor  wouldve  confirmed  the 
receiving bank could  charge  for receiving the funds but Santander wouldnt have had any 
idea of how much would be charged. And it didnt have any control over them. It was up to 
Ms G to investigate this. It doesnt agree to refund the £35 charge. It correctly  processed a 
payment of £125  to Ms Gs relative  and charged  a fee of £25 for this. Once  the payment left 
Santander it had no control over it and the £35 charge was levied by the third party bank. Its 
terms and conditions also confirm the possibility the receiving bank will charge a fee. 
Santander had no control over the £35 fee and shouldnt be asked to reimburse  it. 
Ms G says she was never told of any charges except the £25 one. It was only after we 
became involved  that Santander advised her of what the £35 charge was for. Its disclosed 
to her that it had used  a third party agent  which had charged the additional fee. Its also said 
its contacted  the third party  agent  to say the fee is too high. She wasnt  made  aware that 
Santander couldnt send the money  directly  and if shed known that total fees of £60 would 
be taken she wouldnt have sent the money in this way. Shes very unhappy with the way 
Santander has explained matters and dealt  with things. 
Ref: DRN67949772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander says its advisor told Ms G there  would be a £25 charge for the international 
transfer of the money she wanted  to send to her relative abroad. It also says its advisor 
wouldve told Ms G that other  charges could be levied by the receiving bank. And its terms 
and conditions say that charges may be applied by the merchant or bank carrying  out the 
payment. 
Ms G accepted the £25 Santander charge. But she says she wasnt  told of any other  
charges. She also points  out she mayve been given the terms and conditions when she 
opened the account many years before but she hadnt made this sort of transfer  before and 
wasnt given them when  she made this transfer.
I cannot know for certain exactly what Ms G was told in the branch.  And I accept that the 
advisor there  wouldnt have been  able to say exactly  what  other charges, over and above  
Santanders one of £25, might  apply to this transfer  or how much  theyd be. 
But whatever was said, I think it wouldve been  fair and reasonable for the advisor to have 
warned Ms G that she may wish to check what other charges might be levied by the parties 
involved in the transfer before making  it. Ms G was only transferring a relatively small  
amount of money.  Out of the £150 involved Santander was already taking a £25 charge and 
Ms G expected her relative to receive  £125. So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for the 
advisor to warn her that any additional charge might  be disproportionate to the amount being 
sent and potentially greatly reduce  the amount received by her relative. 
If Santander had warned  Ms G of this I think  it mayve led to Ms G at very least delaying 
making the transfer to get more information or more likely deciding not to proceed with it.
Taking everything into account  I think on balance that in this case Santander shouldve 
reasonably done more.  And had it done so Ms G most likely  wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the transfer and incurred  the £35 charge. Consequently I think its fair for Santander to 
reimburse Ms G for the £35 charge that was subsequently deducted  from the money she 
sent.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Santander UK Plc should pay Ms G the sum of 
£35.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6794977