K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) has declined  her home 
insurance claim for repair costs she incurred  following an escape  of water at her house.
background
In January 2018 Miss Cs new puppy  chewed  through the wood of her kitchen door frame. 
Miss C noticed that the wood was rotten.  She called a damp  specialist to inspect what  was 
going on. He removed  the plastic floor tiles in the under  stairs  cupboard  and discovered that 
the ground was very wet. He suspected there had been a leak and discovered that it was 
coming from the mains  water pipe in the alleyway between Miss C and her neighbours 
house. It was found that the leaking pipe had caused the internal damage to Miss Cs house. 
Miss C instructed the specialist to carry out the necessary  repairs. He invoiced Miss C in 
February 2018 for £5,405  which she paid in full. About two days  before she received the 
damp specialists invoice, Miss C telephoned  L&G to raise a claim. L&G appointed its 
surveyors to inspect the property which took place in the first week  of March  2018. Following 
the inspection  the surveyor wrote  to Miss C to say the claim was declined. It said the 
damage had happened  gradually  over a period of time which was excluded from cover  under 
the policy. It also referred to storm and weather  within  its correspondence.  Miss C contacted 
L&G. She said thered  been a mistake and that she was making a claim for escape of water 
rather than storm. 
L&G looked  into the matter and decided  that the claim had ben incorrectly  declined.  It said 
the escape of water  was covered under the policy. But it said that during its conversations 
with Miss C about the claim shed mentioned her house had been damp for a while.  So L&G 
said the damage was worse because Miss C failed to act sooner. It decided  to pay Miss C 
what it wouldve cost it to repair the damage if it had been caused by a one-off escape of 
water event  this was £1,625.13 less the policy excess  of £250 (£1375.13).
Miss C was unhappy with L&Gs decision so she brought a complaint to this service.  She 
said she was unhappy with the claims settlement and wanted to be reimbursed for the full 
amount shed paid for the repairs.  
Our investigator looked into her complaint and recommended it was upheld.  She said she 
didnt think it had been fair for L&G to take the gradually operating  cause (GOC) policy  
exclusion into account because Miss C had been unaware that the damage was occurring. 
So she didnt think it was reasonable for L&G to limit its liability to what it would cost to repair  
the damage if it hadnt happened gradually (in other words had been caused by a one-off 
escape of water event). She recommended that L&G review  the claim and settle the claim 
based on what it wouldve  cost its own contractor to do the work. She said it should deduct  
what itd already paid Miss C from the amount reached and add 8% interest to the balance 
from the date the claim was declined. 
Miss C accepted our investigators findings  but L&G didnt. It repeated that it didnt think   
Miss C had acted quickly enough and had, in effect, prejudiced  its position.  And it said the 
costs associated with having the leak repaired and any excavation  costs and reinstatement  
works werent covered by the policy. It also thought having to pay interest was unfair. 
Ref: DRN69716592Our investigator looked into the complaint again  and said she remained of the same  view as 
before except she agreed that the policy terms didnt cover the cost of tracing and repairing 
the leak itself and reinstating  the ground. So she didnt think L&G should pay for this element 
of the claim. 
Miss C accepted our investigators findings  but L&G didnt. It said it may have actually 
accepted the claim in error as the escape  of water may not have actually occurred from a 
plumbed in water installation as defined by the policy. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Miss Cs claim is covered under the policy terms, L&G has said its liability is limited  by 
the GOC exclusion. As a result, it considered the claim as if a one-off escape of water event 
had occurred. I dont  think thats fair. I appreciate that L&G says that it thinks Miss C didnt 
act quickly enough  in addressing the issue. But thats because  she was unaware  it was 
happening. She told L&G during the phone call to notify the claim that she originally thought 
the problem was caused by rising damp (her property being quite old and prone to such) 
which is why she called  in a damp  specialist.  It wasnt until her contractor found the leak that 
she knew it was there.  
So whilst L&G think Miss C shouldve acted sooner, Im unable to agree. I think that given 
the age of the property and Miss Cs previous experiences with damp I can see why she 
didnt think anything of it until she found  rotting wood. At that point she immediately called 
out a specialist. Of course the damage  was much worse than if it had been  discovered 
sooner but that doesnt mean it is fair to use the GOC exclusion to reduce liability.  I would 
need to be satisfied that Miss C was aware,  or ought reasonably have been aware, that the 
damage was occurring in order to agree that L&G had fairly applied  the exclusion.  And for 
the reasons Ive given above,  I dont  think she was. 
As soon  as Miss C knew there was a problem she acted  on it. So Ive no reason  to doubt 
that she wouldve  done so sooner if shed been aware. Nothing in Miss Cs account  of what  
happened makes  me think  she knew she had a significant leak causing significant damage  
and ignored it. I dont think its reasonable to limit or decline the claim in circumstances 
where the consumer  is unaware there  is a leak. Miss C cant  have failed to mitigate,  or failed  
to report the issue  in a timely manner, if she was unaware there was a problem.
Ive noted too L&Gs  recent comment that it shouldnt be subject to further liability in any 
event because it now thinks  that the pipe may not belong to Miss Cs property. So it says it 
looks like it accepted the claim in error. It says to extend liability  if this is the case isnt fair. 
This is the first time L&G has mentioned this. It also quoted what it said was the policy 
definition for a plumbed-in water  installation. However, there isnt a definition  for plumbed-
in water installation in the terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN69716593If L&G wanted to try and limit its liability in this way then it shouldve  made  it clear  to Miss C 
at the outset. It has now accepted an escape  of water has occurred  and had also paid a 
cash settlement. So whilst I appreciate its point,  I make no finding on whether the pipe 
belongs to Miss C or not. Thats because no information has been provided to me to do so 
and because this complaint is about L&Gs decision to limit liability  (which  must, it follows, 
have been accepted) by relying  on the GOC. As Im unable to fairly decide if the pipe 
belongs to Miss C or not, I cant fairly conclude that L&Gs liability  shouldnt  be further 
extended because  of it. 
And in any event, L&G isnt being  asked to pay for tracing, accessing,  repairing and 
reinstating the pipe and alleyway. Miss Cs claim was for the internal damage caused to her 
property. 
As I think  liability  shouldnt be limited by the GOC, or because the pipe might not actually 
belong to Miss C, it follows that I think L&G should meet the claim subject to the claim 
settlement terms in the policy  terms. Clearly Miss C did the work before consulting  L&G so it 
was unable to inspect the damage for itself. It is very likely that Miss Cs contractor charged  
much more to do the repairs that L&Gs own would. It wouldnt be fair to ignore this and, I 
note, Miss C accepts it. The policy terms state  that if a policyholder prefers to use their own 
tradesman then the amount L&G will pay wont exceed that which it wouldve paid its own 
contractor. 
Miss Cs contractor submitted a very detailed invoice  and I know that L&G has seen a copy. 
It should review the invoice and calculate  what its own supplier wouldve charged  to do the 
insured works (these will exclude any costs Miss Cs contractor invoiced for tracing, 
accessing, repairing  and reinstating the pipe and alleyway). For the avoidance of doubt, the 
insured works are items 1 and 2 on the invoice, as well as the works associated  with the 
stairs. From this amount L&G should deduct  what its already paid Miss C and then it should 
add interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple  per year from the date the claim was 
first declined to the date it pays my award. This is because Miss C has been out of pocket 
for this amount since  then. 
So I agree that his complaint should be upheld. For the reasons given, I cant  reasonably 
make L&G reimburse Miss C for the full amount  of her specialists invoice. But nor can I 
agree with L&G that it can reasonably  limit its liability for Miss Cs claim by relying  on the 
GOC exclusion.
Ref: DRN69716594my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited 
to:
Calculate what it wouldve cost its own supplier to undertake  items 1 and 2 on Miss Cs 
contractors invoice  as well as the works associated with the stairs that are listed on it; 
Deduct from the amount calculated the amount its already paid Miss C (£1,375.13)  and 
pay Miss C the balance;
Add interest* to the balance at this services  usual rate of 8% simple  per year from the 
date the claim was first declined  to the date Legal  & General  Insurance Limited pays this 
award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
*If Legal  & General  Insurance  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should  tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6971659