K821x#15complaint
Mrs W is seeking to recover  £2,900 from TSB Bank  plc (TSB), which  she lost as a result of 
a third-party scam.
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs W unwittingly authorised the payment   
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from 
the receiving account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have concluded that 
the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint 
for the following reasons:
It is common ground that Mrs W authorised  the scam payment of £2,900.  She was duped  by 
the fraudsters into thinking that her account  was at risk, and in order to protect her money, 
she needed to move it to a temporary  safe account.
Mrs W has said the fraudster called from what appeared  to be TSBs lost and stolen  
telephone number and she was told her TSB accounts had been compromised. Although 
Mrs W was wary at first, the fraudster was able to call her back on her landline telephone  
number and tell her lots of details about  her accounts that she thought only TSB would  
know. Ultimately,  she was persuaded that she was legitimately speaking  with someone from 
TSB.
Mrs W held two current accounts  with TSB at the time. And so, on 14 September  2017, Mrs 
W logged into her online  banking and transferred  the majority of both accounts  to the 
fraudsters. In summary, Mrs W made  the following payments:
£1,400 from Account  1 at 13.54pm
£1,500 from Account  2 at 14.21pm
Both payments took Mrs W very near to her overdraft limit on both accounts  and both of the 
transfers were completed within 30 minutes of each other.
I accept that these were  authorised payments even though Mrs W was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She logged into her online banking using her security credentials to 
request the payments. So, although she did not intend the money to go to the fraudsters, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2009,  and the terms and conditions of her account, 
Mrs W is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been  monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place  to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
Ref: DRN64119072particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some  circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
TSB declined to offer Mrs W a refund of the £2,900. In its submissions to this service, it 
said it didnt believe it had done  anything wrong  in carrying out Mrs Ws instructions to 
make the payments  Mrs W had authorised the sending of the payments  herself   despite 
there being numerous warnings about  this type of scam on its website.  TSB said there was 
nothing about  the payments themselves that shouldve put it on notice that Mrs W mightve 
been at risk of financial harm. 
But Im satisfied the evidence before us indicates that TSB shouldve done  more to protect 
Mrs W when she was initially making  the payments and that there  were  indicators that Mrs 
W was potentially falling  victim to a scam  meaning  TSB missed an opportunity  to step in 
and question the payments before they left Mrs Ws accounts. 
Ive looked at the activity that took place during the scam.  Following the fraudsters 
instructions, Mrs W transferred £1,400 from Account 1 to the safe  account  taking her 
£1,408.12 overdrawn  with less than £100 of her £1,500  overdraft remaining. Nearly  her 
entire overdraft facility was used.  And the payment is made  to a new payee. Ive then 
compared this activity to how Mrs W usually manages this account by looking at her 
statements from the months prior to the scam.  Mrs W isnt regularly  overdrawn.  In fact, she 
only goes overdrawn on this account  a few times in the six months  prior  and even then,  
this is for no more than £8. The highest payment that leaves this account in the six months 
prior is £535. 
The second  transfer, from Account 2, also drains the majority of this account. Mrs W makes  
a payment of £1,500 from the account  which takes  her £807.80 overdrawn  leaving Mrs W 
with just £42.20 of her £850  overdraft  facility remaining.  Mrs W has used her overdraft  facility  
on this account  before - but not for more than £272 in the months leading up to the scam. 
So, within 30 minutes both of Mrs Ws TSB current accounts go from having credit  balances 
to having virtually maximised overdraft facilities. Both of Mrs Ws TSB accounts  are 
essentially drained of available funds. It is this activity that I think ought to have fairly  and 
reasonably caused TSB some concern that Mrs W was at risk of financial harm   especially 
when the emptying of multiple accounts can be a key indicator of safe account scams. 
Safe account scams have very particular characteristics, customers  will often quickly  
transfer the total balances  of all their accounts  out, to a new payee, reducing their account 
balances to zero or almost zero  and sometimes using  all of or almost  all of their overdraft 
facilities. They do so in the belief that fraudsters have access  to their accounts, and they 
need to remove  all of their available funds, as quickly as possible, in order to safeguard 
them. The activity that took place on Mrs Ws accounts had all the hallmarks of a classic 
safe account scam and is exactly the type of suspicious account  activity that TSB should 
be on the look-out  for. 
Ref: DRN64119073So, Im persuaded  these  payments were  unusual and out of character for Mrs W, and the 
activity on her accounts had all the classic  hallmarks of a safe account  scam, and so I 
think TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have made enquiries about the purpose of the 
payments before processing them.
TSB has commented that it has an obligation  to debit its customers accounts  in line with its 
customers mandate and by allowing  the payments to leave the accounts here, it was 
simply following Mrs Ws payment instructions. I accept there is a balance  to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising  disruption  
to legitimate payments. 
But for all the reasons  Ive explained, I think TSB ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
identified that Mrs W was potentially at risk of financial  harm. Im persuaded that as a matter  
of good practice,  TSB should have  made  additional checks. Mrs W fell victim  to a scam 
which is sadly all too common  a safe account scam. And its a type of scam Im satisfied  
TSB ought  to have  been aware  of at the time.  And so, Ive thought  about  what  most likely 
wouldve happened had TSB contacted Mrs W about the payments.
 
Im satisfied Mrs W wouldve told TSB she was transferring her money to a safe account 
upon the instructions of the TSB fraud department  she wasnt given a cover-story  by the 
fraudsters should  TSB ask about the reasons  for the payments. At this point, TSB couldve 
educated Mrs W about this type of scam  and its key characteristics. It wouldve been able to 
tell Mrs W that the person  she had been speaking  to did not work for TSB, and that TSB 
would not ask one of its customers to transfer their money to a safe account.  Had TSB done  
so, Im persuaded  that the scam  would  have been prevented  and no loss occurred. 
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if TSB had asked some probing 
questions are reinforced by the fact that Mrs W realised herself that something wasnt quite 
right within a couple of hours of the scam   once shed had time to think. She says, and I 
accept that, reflecting on what  had just occurred and been discussed, she started  to 
entertain doubts. But by then it was too late  the funds had already left and had been 
removed from the receiving account by the fraudsters (which meant TSB could not recover 
any of Mrs Ws funds). In other words,  if the staff had carried  out further or better questioning 
in line with a banks duty of care, it seems probable that Mrs W would have become aware of 
the scam  and not continued  with the payments in the first instance.  The fraud would have 
failed; and Mrs W would not have lost £2,900.  
TSB has highlighted  that there were warnings both on its website and on its online banking 
about this type of scam and that Mrs W failed  to take heed of these warnings. And its 
provided us with examples of the warnings it says were visible  at the time.  But Mrs W has 
no memory of seeing any of these warnings. And even if there  were  warnings in place at 
the time,  its clear they had no impact  on Mrs W and this scam  Mrs W still fell victim to it.
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
receiving account  before  they were irretrievably removed by the scammers - there has been 
some disagreement  as to when  Mrs W first contacted  TSB to notify it of the scam. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it would have  made  no difference  because the receiving bank 
records show that the scammers  withdrew  all the money almost immediately i.e. before Mrs 
W says she first contacted TSB.  
Ref: DRN64119074I have also considered whether Mrs W should  bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising  
the payments,  she was still totally in the dark and simply  did not appreciate  what  she was 
doing or the consequences of her actions. She thought  she was protecting her account from 
fraud, not facilitating  it. I am satisfied  there  was no contributory negligence on this occasion,  
she was simply  the unwitting and blameless  victim of a clever  fraudster. The bank was the 
professional in financial matters; Mrs W was a layperson. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mrs W for 
the loss she suffered without any reduction. I am satisfied  that had the fraudster not taken  
the money from Mrs W it would have remained in her current accounts, so Mrs Ws account 
balances should  be restructured as if the payments had not been made, refunding any 
charges or interest attributable to the payments. If, on the accounts  being restructured, Mrs 
W wouldve  come out of her overdrafts, TSB should  pay simple  interest  per annum on any 
positive balances until such  time she went back into her overdraft.
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest  award  of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs W has suffered. In reaching  that conclusion I am mindful that her loss 
was ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster and the transactions  were  authorised,  
but TSB could ultimately have prevented the payments.
Mrs Ws explained the difficult  personal  circumstances she was going  through  at the time 
of the scam and how the impact of the fraud made  her personal circumstances worse.  Im 
satisfied some of these feelings  of stress  and worry wouldve been the case  even if TSB 
had prevented her from losing this money. But Im persuaded some of the emotional 
impact and stress she has felt since couldve been  avoided. So, for these reasons, I think 
TSB should pay Mrs W £100 in compensation. 
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about TSB Bank  plc  and I therefore  require the bank to:
refund  Mrs W the £2,900 she lost as part of the scam
restructure Mrs Ws account balances as if the payments had not been  made,  
refunding any charges  or interest attributable to the payments
if, on the accounts being restructured, Mrs W wouldve come out of her overdraft, 
TSB should pay simple  interest per annum on any positive  balance  until such time 
she went back into her overdraft
pay Mrs W £100 for the material distress and inconvenience she experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2020.
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN64119075*If TSB Bank plc deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mrs W with the appropriate  
tax certificate so he might  submit a claim  to HMRC if applicable.
Ref: DRN6411907