K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that hes lost money because Santander UK Plc didnt  complete  an 
international transfer for him.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 July 2019, setting out why I intended 
to uphold the complaint. I invited both parties to make any further submissions by 23 July 
2019 before  I finalised  matters. 
My provisional decision is attached. In response, Mr A accepted my decision and didnt have  
anything further  to add. However, Santander didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In its 
response it asked me to consider  the following points  in summary: 
-It explained how the loss to Mr A had arisen;
-It didnt accept my finding that the loss to Mr A didnt  arise because the intermediary 
couldnt send  the payment. Rather,  it arose  because Santander failed  to execute the 
instruction as it had undertaken  to do. It said this was incorrect because it had 
processed the payment exactly as Mr A had instructed. And the payment failed 
wholly because its intermediary would  not send it;
-It wasnt possible to engage  an alternative  intermediary because  of the business 
arrangements it has. It uses  a single intermediary for the purposes of settling 
payments. It doesnt have an established  relationship with another  intermediary and 
this situation isnt unique to it; 
-It acknowledged this situation was frustrating  for Mr A but the intermediary had 
undertaken its own checks as theyre legally required to do. Theres was little it could 
do if it couldnt then send the funds  for onward payment;  
-It noted Mr A had subsequently managed to send the payment through another  bank. 
But it considered  the circumstances in which the payment  had been  returned was 
covered by its terms and conditions, specifically where statutory or other legal checks 
are being  carried  out or any event  or circumstances beyond their reasonable control; 
and 
-Taking all of these things together, it didnt think it was liable for any difference in the 
money that was returned. It felt what had happened here was beyond  its control.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Santander says it didnt fail to execute the payment because it sent the payment according 
to Mr As instructions. It says the difficulties  arose  elsewhere. I accept Santander processed 
the payment instruction; it debited Mr As account,  converted the money  to be transferred 
into the nominated  currency  and sent on the payment instruction according  to the details he 
Ref: DRN64559622had given. But Im afraid  I dont think the execution of the payment  ended when Santander 
passed on the payment instruction to the intermediary.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR2017) suggest  that execution  includes 
ensuring the payment reaches the payees payment service  provider.  For example,  
regulation 91(2)  makes the payers payment service provider liable for the correct execution  
of a payment  transaction unless it can prove  that the payees payment service  provider 
received it. Thats consistent with the view Ive taken here - the service Santander had 
undertaken to provide to Mr A (and the one hed paid for) was to get the funds to the 
designated payee. Because that didnt happen,  Im satisfied its right to conclude Santander 
failed to execute the payment as it had undertaken to do.
Im aware of the legal and regulatory  obligations  on banks to undertake checks. But Ive not 
been presented  with evidence that these were  what prevented the intermediary from sending  
the money. The information  suggests  the payment  was rejected because of the 
intermediarys own internal policy, which isnt the same thing and indeed its of note that     
Mr A managed to make that transfer  from elsewhere. Crucially here, nor do I accept that the 
non-execution of the payment was a matter beyond Santanders reasonable control.  It was 
Santanders decision to use the intermediary to fulfil the payment instruction. And it was 
Santanders decision not to contact Mr A when the intermediary returned the instruction. At 
that point, Mr A hadnt suffered  the loss in question  that only materialised when the money 
was changed  back into sterling. Mr As money  was in the currency he required, and it was 
within Santanders reasonable  control to let him know what  had happened and explore 
alternatives that could  have avoided the loss.
Ive carefully considered  Santanders example where a customer purchases travel  currency, 
doesnt use all or some  of it and then converts  it back  at a different  rate, which might result in 
a loss. But I think the difference there is that its the customers choice when  to sell the 
currency. Here  Santander  took the decision for Mr A, thereby taking the choice and when  to 
exercise that choice  away from him.   
Taking everything together, I think Santander  couldve  done more to prevent Mr As loss. 
Indeed, its failure  to take suitable  steps   instead converting the dollars back  into sterling   is 
what led directly to the loss Mr A incurred. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr A to be left 
out of pocket as a result. So Ive decided Santander  must take steps to put things right. 
Ref: DRN64559623my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Santander UK Plc to:
-refund  the amount of money Mr A lost on the transfer (£338.47);
-refund  the £25 transfer fee; and 
-pay Mr A £150 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Sarita Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64559624copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr A complains that hes lost money because Santander UK Plc didnt complete an international  
transfer for him.
background
Mr A wanted  to transfer money to his daughter, who lives overseas. He completed an instruction 
online, asking Santander  to convert  his payment into US Dollars. Mr A paid a £25 charge for the 
service.
Santander didnt have a direct link with Mr As daughters bank, so it used an intermediary bank  (a 
third party) to send the funds. However, the intermediary bank sent the money back  to Santander. 
Upon receipt,  Santander converted  the dollars  back to sterling. 
Once the money was back in Mr As account he noticed he had £338.47 less than hed sent, He 
complained to Santander  about  this and why his transfer hadnt gone through. 
Santander looked into the matter and said that the payment  had been rejected by someone else - not 
it. It also referred to the terms and conditions of the account, which it said made  clear  that additional  
charges might be taken if a payment is returned  these might be administrative  fees and the cost of 
changing foreign currency back. So, in the circumstances  it didnt  think it had done anything  wrong.
One of our investigators looked into matter. He said the recipient bank had returned the funds and the 
terms and conditions  warned  him he might get back less. 
Mr A asked for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In doing so he said:
-He had checked with the recipient bank and it had hadnt received the transfer. So he 
questioned how it could have rejected  the payment;
-He still didnt understand  why the payment had been returned;
-While  Santander had engaged  an intermediary  to send  the money, his relationship was with it 
not the third party.  He felt Santander was responsible  for his loss;
-If Santander  couldnt carry out his instruction, it should have said this before it sent the 
payment. He said he couldve used another bank instead; and
-Thats  what  hed then done. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend to uphold the complaint.  Ill explain why. 
When Mr A first brought his complaint to us, it wasnt clear why his transfer hadnt gone through. I 
think its fair to say that there was a lack of explanation  and understanding as a result.  However,  
following further investigation, its now clear the payment  didnt  go through because the intermediary 
bank returned it. The intermediary bank said it did so because it didnt meet its own internal checks. It 
said the instruction was therefore null and void. 
Id like to explain that its not for me to question  the intermediary banks  decision here to return  a 
payment  that doesnt  fall within my remit for the purposes of this review.  But I do think  its important  
Ref: DRN64559625to make the point that if a bank chooses to provide a service and uses  another  party to help complete 
it and theres  a problem, in certain circumstances the sending bank (here Santander) might be 
responsible for any loss. 
In offering to provide a foreign currency transfer service Santander has a duty to do so with 
reasonable care and skill. In my view, where (as here) Santander is unable to execute  the instruction 
itself, that extends to appointing  a party  competent to execute the instruction or declining to accept  
the instruction.  Santander  chose not to decline Mr As instruction, so it should have  taken steps to 
engage an intermediary that was able to carry it out.
The intermediary that Santander did engage wasnt  able to carry out the instruction.  It doesnt appear 
Santander made any attempt to use an alternative  intermediary.  Instead, it converted  the dollars back  
into sterling and recredited  Mr As account, resulting  in a financial loss to him.
Im satisfied that if Mr A had been given this information, he wouldve done something different  I 
think he wouldve used  someone  else to send  the money. I say this because  thats exactly what he 
then did in order to get the money to his daughter. Mr A has provided confirmation of that transfer 
instruction, which he says went through successfully.  But by this stage, the position was that hed 
already lost out.  
I appreciate Santander receives a large number of requests for foreign currency payments on a daily 
basis so it might not be commercially viable for it to check with an intermediary  on each occasion 
before engaging its services. And theres nothing to suggest Santander knew (or ought to have 
known) beforehand  that the intermediary it instructed would be unable to carry  out the instruction. But 
even if Santander was exercising reasonable  skill and care in engaging that intermediary, I dont think 
it follows that Mr A should  be liable  for the subsequent loss.
In my view,  the loss to Mr A didnt arise because the intermediary couldnt  send the payment.  Rather, 
it arose because Santander failed to execute the instruction as it had undertaken to do. Therefore, I 
think Santander is responsible for what  happened when Mr A lost out.   
I have considered the terms and conditions, with particular regard  to the exclusion of liability for 
matters beyond  Santanders control. But I dont think this helps the bank particularly.  It was entirely  
within Santanders control to engage an alternative intermediary who was able to carry out the 
instruction. After all, that is precisely what Mr A ended up doing.  
Taking all of these things  together, I think Santander needs to take steps to put things right.  I think  it 
should reimburse  Mr A for the amount that was deducted from the transfer. I think  it should also 
compensate him for the trouble and upset caused, not only because  of the initial shortcomings but for 
the lack of explanation about  what had happened.  I feel £150 is a fair and reasonable.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I require  Santander UK Plc to pay to 
Mr A:
-the amount  of money he lost on the transfer (£338.47);
-refund the £25 transfer fee; and 
-pay £150  to recognise the trouble and upset  caused.
Sarita Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6455962