K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Bank of Scotland  plc wont refund two cash  withdrawals  from his debit 
account that he disputes making.
Hes represented by his daughter  Ms I  but, for clarity, Ill only refer to Mr I throughout my 
decision.
background
Mr I contacted Bank of Scotland  in December 2017  after receiving his account statement. 
Hed noticed two cash machine withdrawals  that he was sure he didnt make. They  were for 
£200 on 9 November and £300 on 18 November. They occurred amongst the following 
transactions. Only those  in bold are disputed.
Date Time Place/location Type of transaction Amount
07/11/17 13:41 Tesco Purchase £2.00
08/11/17 13:00 Argos Purchase £5.00
09/11/17 18:29 New Merit Dry Cleaners Balance enquiry -
09/11/17 18:33 Habib Bank  ATM Southall Balance enquiry -
09/11/17 18:35 Habib Bank  ATM Southall Balance enquiry -
09/11/17 18:35 Habib Bank  ATM Southall Cash withdrawal £200.00
10/11/17 14:03 Wilko Purchase £2.50
10/11/17 14:10 Halifax Uxbridge Road  ATM Cash withdrawal £150.00
13/11/17 12:59 Tesco Purchase £2.00
14/11/17 12:22 Taste of Lahore  ATM Cash withdrawal £10.00
15/11/17 11:08 NatWest The Broadway ATM Cash withdrawal £60.00
17/11/17 14:19 Halifax Uxbridge Road  ATM Cash withdrawal £150.00
18/11/17 17:01 Post Office The Broadway ATM Cash withdrawal £300.00
24/11/17 13:09 NatWest Uxbridge Road  ATM Cash withdrawal £170.00
Mr I told Bank of Scotland he:
hadnt made the transactions himself or allowed anyone else to do so; 
hadnt kept a record  of his PIN anywhere and hadnt told anyone what  it was;
didnt think anyone  had ever been  close enough  to observe him entering his PIN;
still had the card in his possession and had never noticed it missing;
always kept his card close to his person  or else locked away at home;
didnt make such large withdrawals or make them so frequently;
didnt withdraw money at that time of day; he was always home by 15:00; and
he wouldnt have been able to withdraw  money  in Westminster or Mayfair,  where  he 
believed the withdrawals took place.
Bank of Scotland considered what had happened and what Mr I had said.  It decided  to hold 
Mr I responsible for the withdrawals and not refund him. It couldnt see how someone other 
than Mr I had carried out the transactions unless  hed given over his card and PIN. It noted 
there had been  genuine  spending in between  the disputed transactions, meaning the card 
would have to have been taken from and returned  to Mr Is possession  without him noticing.
Mr I was unhappy with the banks response and so brought the complaint  to us. He stated 
the same  points Ive set out above.  He also thought the bank should provide CCTV of the 
Ref: DRN62334782withdrawals so he could  know who had taken the money. He also felt his card may have 
been skimmed or cloned.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Is case. She thought the bank had acted fairly.  She 
thought it was more likely than not Mr I had either  carried out the transactions  himself or had 
given someone  else his card and PIN. That was because she could find no reasonable 
explanation for how someone could have obtained  Mr Is card and PIN without him knowing.
She, like the bank, saw that it would have been  necessary for an unknown  fraudster to have 
taken, used and replaced the card without Mr I noticing, given the genuine spending in 
between disputed transactions.
Our investigator didnt  believe  Mr Is card had been  cloned. She could see the electronic chip 
on the card had been read which indicated the genuine card being  used.  Thats because this 
service hasnt seen any evidence that the chip on a card can be cloned.
She also addressed  some  of the points made  by Mr I around the amount, timing, regularity 
and location of the transactions.  She pointed out:
Mr I did often withdraw  amounts  that werent dissimilar to the disputed withdrawals, 
particularly the first one of £200. She could see he regularly  withdrew £150;
Mr I did often use his card to either  withdraw money or pay for goods/services  after 
15:00;
withdrawals did often  take place close together, with four undisputed withdrawals 
taking place between  the two disputed  ones; and
the withdrawals werent  made in Westminster or Mayfair. She couldnt see any record 
of the bank saying they had and confirmed they were much  closer to Mr Is home 
address.
No CCTV was available and our investigator  recognised that was unfortunate. But she 
referred back to the other evidence we did have  and explained that CCTV footage  wasnt 
required for the bank  to hold Mr I responsible  for the disputed  transactions. There  was 
enough other evidence for the bank  to do so.
Mr I remained  unhappy with the outcome and asked that an ombudsman make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Bank of Scotland can only hold Mr I responsible for these transactions  if theres enough 
evidence to show that he authorised them. The relevant rules  are set out in the Payment 
Service Regulations 2009 (applicable at the time of the transaction). Its not enough  for the 
bank to rely on showing the card was read using the chip and verified with the PIN. The 
wider circumstances  and what  Mr I has to say about what  happened  will also form part of the 
evidence. 
Ref: DRN62334783CCTV could form part of the evidence in a case.  Its not available  here and so cant be 
considered. That doesnt mean the bank  cant  evidence  the transactions are authorised 
though. It doesnt  have  to have photos  or footage of Mr I withdrawing the money. 
Evidence in cases like Mr Is may be incomplete and I may not have  all Id ideally want, such 
as CCTV footage of the withdrawals. In such circumstances Ill base my findings  on the 
balance of probabilities. Thats to say what I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
In practical terms it means Im looking for a reasonable explanation for how these 
withdrawals could have  taken place without Mr I either knowing about them  or through him 
giving over of his card and PIN.
was Mr Is card cloned?
Im satisfied Mr Is genuine card was used  along with his PIN. The banks electronic records 
show both withdrawals being authenticated in this way. And as our investigator set out in her 
findings, this service hasnt seen any evidence  to suggest the chip embedded within  a card 
can be cloned. I can then conclude Mr Is genuine  card was being used.
I note there  were only two disputed  withdrawals that took place  here. This information  further  
leads me to believe a cloned card wasnt being  used. Had someone managed  to obtain a 
working copy of Mr Is card it seems very likely theyd have gone on to use it as much as 
possible. That didnt  happen here.
could an unknown fraudster have withdrawn the money?
Im satisfied the withdrawals werent carried out by an unknown  fraudster.  This seems the 
least likely  of all possible scenarios. I say so because I cant  see how someone completely 
unknown to Mr I could  have taken, used and replaced his card without him noticing. 
Ive already explained that a cloned  card wasnt being used. Yet Mr I never  noticed  his 
genuine card out of his possession, despite  it always either  being  on his person or locked 
away. And he carried out genuine transactions  in between the disputed ones. So a fraudster 
wouldnt have been able to hold on to the card for nine days  before returning it to him. 
Theres also the question  of why a fraudster  would return  the card at all. Thats along with 
the fact, as mentioned already, that such a fraudster would have  decided  not to make full 
use of an account  they had complete access to. There were significant funds available for 
withdrawal and yet only two take place, nine days apart and not for the maximum withdrawal 
limit.
These arent  the actions of an unknown fraudster.  
could someone  known to Mr I have withdrawn  the money?
This is a possibility but again seems unlikely,  given what Mr I has told us about his card and 
PIN: the card was always  on his person or locked  away;  Mr I never noticed it missing;  no 
one knew the PIN; there was no record of the PIN anywhere; no one would have been able 
to observe him entering  his PIN during a genuine  transaction. 
I accept its possible Mr I may be wrong about some of these statements. Unknowingly  so or 
otherwise. For example,  its possible someone  close to him did learn his PIN over time, 
Ref: DRN62334784without him knowing.  But given the sum of what hes said it seems unlikely that someone 
close to him was able to obtain the card and PIN without his knowledge.
did Mr I carry  out the withdrawals or allow someone  else access  to his card and PIN?
I believe the two scenarios  Ive covered already  are shown to be less likely when considering 
this alternative,  which I consider is more likely than not to be what  happened.
There was some confusion over the location of the withdrawals and this seems  to have been 
a particular reason  for Mr I disputing. I dont know where that confusion  has come  from. Ive 
seen no evidence the bank misinformed Mr I. But in any case, the transactions  happened 
much closer  to Mr Is home than he first believed. The first withdrawal is only five minutes 
walk from Mr Is home. The second  is further away, but still quite local to Mr I. It seems 
unlikely a fraudster  would  solely operate in areas close to Mr Is home  if they had the card 
and PIN. And one of the principal reasons Mr I has put forward  to suggest  he couldnt have 
made the withdrawals  falls away in light of this information.
I dont think the withdrawals are particularly  out of character or unusual  for Mr I. He does 
regularly withdraw  cash and for similar amounts. Even in similar locations. The £300 
withdrawal is higher than normal  but I dont find that in of itself shows  Mr I didnt authorise  it. 
And if a fraudster had been using Mr Is card, Id have expected to see much more  usage. 
But the card isnt used to the maximum for all disputed transactions and its not used in quick 
succession; theres more  than a week between withdrawals. 
I can see that Mr I does  use his card after 15:00. There are undisputed transactions in the 
table Ive set out at the start of my decision that demonstrate this. And so I dont  find this part 
of Mr Is reasoning to be persuasive.
Ive discussed  the circumstances of how the card was kept and the security of the PIN 
already. So I wont  set out the detail again. Ill just reiterate that it appears the only person 
that could have had access to both was Mr I. It follows  then, when  considered with the other 
less likely scenarios, it must  have  been him that carried  out the withdrawals unless he gave 
access to the card and PIN to someone  else.
conclusions
I cant tell Mr I exactly what happened for each of the withdrawals. I cant say for certain who 
carried them  out. But having considered the evidence I cant find a reasonable explanation 
for how someone other  than Mr I could have made them, unless hed given over his card 
and PIN. 
He may be mistaken  in his belief that he didnt make the transactions.  Or he may not have 
realised someone to whom hed given the card and PIN would withdraw  this money  form his 
account. But Im satisfied Bank of Scotland has acted fairly  and reasonably in holding  him 
responsible. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Ref: DRN62334785Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6233478