K820x#11complaint
Mr B says American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited  (American Express) mis-
sold him a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  to cover his credit  card 
repayments. He also complains that American  Express reduced the credit limit on his credit 
card and the spending limit on his charge card. He says that American  Express reduced his 
limits because of his PPI mis-sale complaint.
background
Mr B took out a credit card took out the in July 1995.  Soon after he took out a PPI policy  by 
completing and returning  an application  form through the post. 
The policy cost 64p for each £100  Mr B owed on the credit card.  If hed successfully claimed 
on the policy, it would have paid out 5% of what he owed on the card if he was unable  to 
work due to accident or sickness or became unemployed.  This wouldve continued each 
month for up to 24 months per claim. 
The second  part of Mr Bs complaint was about  the limits on his credit and charge cards. 
These limits were  reduced in October 2012.  
The adjudicators who looked at the complaint didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
The first adjudicator thought it was clear that Mr B had a choice about taking the PPI. She 
also thought that the benefits of the policy were made clear to Mr B and that they would have 
been of use to him. And there was no evidence to say that Mr B would have  been  caught by 
any of the main limitations.  
The second  adjudicator agreed  that the PPI mis-sale element of the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. She also concluded  that American Express was entitled to reduce the credit  limit on 
Mr Bs credit  card and the spending limit on his charge card.  She didnt think it had reduced 
the limits  in response  to Mr Bs PPI complaint.  
Mr B says that he wouldnt have taken  the policy unless it had been  recommended by 
American Express and that the policy only offered benefits equivalent to those provided by 
his employer. He says that his accounts  were  well run and he could see no other  reason why 
American Express restricted  his credit, other  than his PPI mis-sale complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
the PPI policy
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
Ive looked at the PPI application form that Mr B signed in 1995 and I dont think American  
Express recommended  the policy for Mr B. I say this because the content of the application  
Ref: DRN69960322form suggests that it was designed to be posted  back to American Express. And theres no 
evidence to say that Mr B had any contact with an American Express sales representative.
Im also satisfied that Mr B had a choice about taking out the PPI cover.  From what I can 
see, the PPI was taken out after Mr B had been  given the credit card. And he had to sign the 
separate application form to say that he wanted  to take it. 
As Ive said,  I dont think that American Express advised Mr B to take out the policy.  So it 
didnt have to make sure that the policy was suitable  for him. But it should  have given him 
enough information to decide  whether  the policy was right for him. 
The PPI application  form didnt include much information about  the policy. Instead it referred 
to a separate policy summary. Its not clear when or if Mr B received this. And I dont think 
American Express clearly pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But from what  I 
know about Mr Bs circumstances at the time of the application, Ive no evidence to say that 
Mr B would have been affected by any of these.
Mr B told us that at the time he took out the policy he was employed and in good  health. He 
told us he would have  been entitled  to six months full sick pay (after that, any further sick 
pay was discretionary). He also said he would have  received a redundancy payment. He had 
no other ways of making repayments if he was unable to work through illness or 
unemployment. 
However, I think Mr B could have found it difficult to keep up his credit card payments once 
his sick pay stopped. And Ive kept in mind the PPI couldve paid out for up to 24 months. So 
I think it could have  provided valuable protection for Mr B. So I think Mr B would still have 
bought the policy if hed fully understood the cost and the benefits. 
Which means American Express  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But American Express has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
When the policy was sold, American Express expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about 
that. Because American Express didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, American Express has paid back  the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
credit and spending limits
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B but I am in agreement  with our adjudicator 
here and I dont think there is anything much more of value that I can add. Ive also decided 
not to uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint.
Just as Mr B is entitled to choose where to spend his money American Express is entitled to 
choose who to lend to and on what terms. Its a commercial decision for the lender to make  
and we will not challenge legitimate exercise  of this discretion.
Ref: DRN69960323Ive reviewed both the applicable terms and conditions of Mr Bs credit and charge cards  and 
from these Im satisfied that American Express was entitled to reduce the credit  and 
spending limit available on both cards. And from what Ive seen  Im also satisfied American  
Express gave Mr B notice of the change in limits.
Ive also considered Mr Bs argument  that these  decisions were  made  because  of his PPI 
mis-sale complaint. However, on balance, I am more persuaded by American  Express 
explanation that there  was a review  of his accounts  and that the reduction of credit was likely 
due to a number of reasons including the conduct  of his accounts.
So I cant say American Express  has done  anything wrong here.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Insurance  Services Europe Limited 
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited does have  to pay back  to Mr B 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
I do not find American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited did anything  wrong by 
reducing Mr Bs credit  and spending limit on his accounts with it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6996032