K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about overdraft charges applied to her account by TSB Bank  plc. To settle 
matters Mrs C would like a refund of charges and fees applied.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I wasnt proposing to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final decision.
TSB acknowledged receipt of my provisional  decision but didnt make  any further 
submissions for my consideration.
Mrs C responded to my provisional decision.  She said that following her complaint to TSB in 
December 2018  it applied further  charges to her account despite  her having on-going 
conversations with its customer support unit and collections team.
She provided details  of calls shed  made  to TSB in May and June 2019 and she feels that 
TSB should have  put a hold on charges applied to her account.
She says her account has now been passed to a debt collection agency despite her best 
efforts to resolve the situation with TSB. She thinks it would be fair and reasonable for TSB 
to reduce the outstanding  balance  on her account by £610.78 which is the amount of 
charges a- being the amount of interest   and charges  she estimates have  been  applied to 
her account  since she complained to TSB.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs C is concerned about further interest and charges applied  to her account 
and she feels that TSB should have done more to help her. However, the further interest  and 
charges she has asked to be written  off were applied by TSB following the date of her 
original complaint  and the application of these charges didnt form part of her original 
complaint to TSB.  This means TSB hasnt had chance to respond to the further points she 
has now asked me to consider.
If Mrs C remains  concerned  about the further  interest and charges applied  to her account 
and her treatment by TSB she will need to raise these issues  with TSB first and give it the 
chance to investigate matters before our service  can look into those parts  of her complaint. 
It follows that I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision and I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN66284412Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66284413copy extract of provisional decision
compl aint
Mrs C compl ains about  overdraft charges applied  to her account by TSB Bank plc. To settle matters 
Mrs C would like a refund of charges and fees applied.
background
Mrs C told us shes been strug gling with financi al difficulty since July 2008 after she lost her job. 
Since then she took out a loan to cover her mortgage  and bills and at around the same time her 
husband was ill and she had to cover the major ity of the household expenses. She was also in 
arrears with her mortgage  and she said TSB was aware of this.
She said shed repeated ly asked TSB for a loan to consolidat e her overdraft  but this was 
declined. And she also asked to be moved from her fee paying account.
Mrs C also complains that in late 2018 she handed in a letter about her financial difficulties at a 
branch of TSB but TSB doesnt have any record of this.
TSB issued its final response letter in February 2019 . It said it hadn t made an error  beca use the 
overdraft fees and charges were applied correctl y in line with the terms and condi tions of her 
accou nt. It apolog ised for not having  logged the complaint she handed in to her branch and it paid 
£100 compensati on for the distress and inconven ience caused and £50 compensation for expen ses.
Mrs C does nt think the compensat ion offered by TSB is enou gh so she brought her 
compla int to our service.
first view
The investigator had no reason to disbelieve Mrs Cs version of events but there was nothi ng to show 
shed hand ed in her letter of complaint at a branch  of TSB, so he couldnt comme nt on what had 
happened due to lack of eviden ce.
Although Mrs C thought TSB should have done more to help, he couldnt see that there was any 
record of Mrs C making TSB aware of her financial difficu lties prior to her bringing her compl aint.
The investigator noted that the fees were applied by TSB as a resul t of Mrs C using her 
overdraft. Our investigator thought  the fees were applied correctl y and he didn t think it would be 
fair to ask TSB to refund them.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators view.  Her main complaint  is that she doesnt think TSB 
acted on inform ation she gave to them when she wrote to them  about her financial difficult ies.
second view
Our investi gator  expla ined that TSB had no record of Mrs C coming  to the branch and informing 
them of her financial  difficulties. As there was no proof of this our inves tigator didnt recommend 
this part of her complaint should be upheld.
TSB provid ed information  to show it had been in contact with Mrs C and had offere d her the 
opportunity to speak with them about her finances.  TSBs records show that the first time she spoke 
Ref: DRN66284414to its customer support  unit (CSU) was in January 2019 . At this time,  TSB offere d to go through her 
income and expen diture but Mrs C declined this offer and said she would call back, but this didn t 
happen.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators view. She though t shed done what  she could to make TSB 
aware of her financial situat ion. She made a subject access request to TSB and following this she 
provi ded furthe r information which she says shows she made TSB aware of her financi al difficulties.
third view
Mrs C sent furthe r inform ation  to our service following her subject access  request to TSB. Our 
investi gator  explai ned that he couldnt consi der all the informati on shed provided. He couldnt 
consi der the informati on for the perio d between 2012 and 2014 becau se Mrs C had already made a 
complaint to TSB in March  2014 and TSB had refunded  £190 of fees and waived £150 of charges.
He review ed the contact  notes Mrs C provid ed from July 2017 to Septemb er 2019 . He thought TSB 
had attempte d to support her beca use it had offered her a contr ol account to manage her finances. 
He thought this was a fair and reasonab le measure consi dering her financial needs and TSBs 
notes showe d no further contact from Mrs C until 2019 .
Mrs C disagrees with the investi gators view.  She expla ined that in additi on to the contact shed 
had with TSB, shed also written to TSB in September 2015 and in this letter she included details 
of her income and expen diture  after shed seen a debt manage ment  medi ator.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence  and argument s to decide whats fair and 
reaso nable in the circumsta nces of this compla int.
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Cs financial difficulties which I understan d have been on-goi ng since she lost 
her job in 2008 . I can see that the investi gator has alrea dy explai ned to Mrs C that were not able to 
look into her complaint for the whole of the period shed like.
Mrs C wrote to TSB about  her financial difficulties in February 2014 and it issued a final response 
letter in early March  2014 . TSB refun ded £190 of fees and waived £150 of charg es at that time.  
Under our rules this means I can only look into the intere st and charges applied by TSB after this 
time.
A case decided in the Supreme Court means I cant consider whether the charges TSB applied  in 
respect of Mrs Cs unarranged overdraft are too high or unfair. I can only look at whether  TSB applied 
them correctly in accordance with the terms and conditions of her account. I can see that TSB also 
applied other charges  to her account. These charges were applied by TSB in return for it providing 
services to her and again my role is to look at whethe r TSB applied these  fairly in line with the terms 
and condi tions of her account.
Based on the informati on available to me the charges appear  to have been applied by TSB in 
accordance with the terms and condition s of her account.  I havent seen anything to suggest they 
were calcul ated incorrect ly so I dont think TSB made an error, procedura lly, in applying these.
Mrs C has drawn our attention  to a letter she wrote  to TSB in September 2015 - a copy of which she 
provi ded following her subject access request  to TSB. In this letter she explained that she was 
experi encing financi al hardship and she included details of her income and expenditure and detai ls 
of her priority and non-prior ity debts which shed comp leted with a debt management  mediat or due 
to her mortgage arrear s.
Ref: DRN66284415I  think its clear from her letter that she was experienc ing financial difficu lties and she made TSB 
aware of the difficul ties she was under. In this situation, Id expect TSB to treat her positively and 
sympat hetically. However,  this doesnt mean that TSB is obliged to waive charges or process 
refun ds and it can provid e support in other ways.
Followi ng recei pt of Mrs Cs September  2015 letter, TSBs customer  notes  record that it told her that 
as it had refunde d charges  in the past - it was unab le to offer any further refund or waive any further 
fees. I   dont think this response wasnt helpful and just beca use TSB had helped her previous ly 
should nt be a reason not to help her furthe r in the case  of on-going financial hardship. However, 
overall I think TSB treated  her fairly  overal l.
I say this beca use TSBs notes also show that during the same call when she asked for help she was 
put on hold while the call handle r spoke to TSBs Custome r Supp ort Unit (CSU).  The notes show Mrs 
C was told shed need to compl ete details of her income  and expenses  first to see if TSB could 
provi de any further  assista nce. There s nothi ng to suggest Mrs C did so.
I can see that Mrs C included in her letter details of her income and expen diture  and detai ls of priority 
and non-prior ity debts. Ive thought about whethe r TSB should have done more  to help based on the 
inform ation Mrs C had detail ed in her letter but I dont think it was unreasonable of TSB to ask her to 
compl ete details of her incom e and expen ses direct ly with it. I say this because I think TSB would want 
to ensure it was fully aware of Mrs Cs financial circumstances based on its own script of questio ns 
rather than having to rely on the inform ation Mrs C provi ded and which shed comp leted with a third 
party.
I havent seen anythi ng to suggest Mrs C went on to provid e details of her incom e and expenditure to 
TSB and I think TSB made clear that it would need this informati on before being able to say whethe r 
it was able to help or not.
Althoug h TSB didn t agree  to waive or refund charges, I can see that a control feature  was added  
to her account.  The contr ol feature is to help  prevent you using an unplanned overdraft  and means 
that you won't pay any unplanned overdraft fees or returne d item fees.  The monthly fee for accounts 
with Cont rol is £10. I appreciate that there was a month ly fee for this feature but I think this was 
offered by TSB as a way of suppo rting her through her financial difficulties.
TSBs customer notes from July 2017 indicate that Mrs C intend ed to set up a paym ent plan but the 
notes show she was in a hurry and that shed call back. I havent seen anyth ing to suggest she did 
this.
TSBs custom er notes from Janu ary 2019 show that when Mrs C spoke  to the TSBs CSU , it offered  
to go through her income and expen diture with her. At the time she declined this and said she would 
call back  but I havent seen anythi ng to suggest Mrs C did this.
Im satisfie d that Mrs C made TSB aware  of her financial difficul ties. But when  customers  
experience financi al difficulties its also important  that they work with the financial busin ess 
concern ed and provide  details of their income and expe nditure to enable their bank to assess  their 
financial circumstan ces to see what help can be provided. The customer notes  Ive referre d to 
above show that TSB expla ined to Mrs C that it would  need her to compl ete details of her income 
and expend iture to enabl e them to do this - and there s nothi ng to suggest she went  on to do this. 
On balance I think TSB treated her fairly and it follows that I wont be asking it to refund any 
charges.
I can see that TSB apologi sed to Mrs C for not respondin g to and logging  a letter shed handed  in a 
branch of TSB in late 2018 and it paid £100 compensat ion for the distress and inconvenience caused 
and £50 compensat ion for expenses. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstan ces but I 
understand that this isnt the outco me Mrs C was hoping for.
Ref: DRN66284416my provisional decision
Ill consi der any further comments I receive  from the parties  but unless  anything  changes  my mind, 
for the reasons given, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Michell e Haywar d
omb udsm an
Ref: DRN6628441