K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Ageas Insurance Ltd (Ageas),  who provide his car insurance, havent 
treated him fairly since he had an accident which wrote-off his car. He says it didnt deal with 
him fairly on the day of the accident,  it hasnt paid him for the loss, has refused 
compensation, and shown  a general  apathy  about his complaint. Mr A also says his 
premium when he renewed his policy was nearly 50% more than the previous year.
background 
Mr A has a car insurance policy with Ageas.
He was involved in a multi-car accident in March 2019, following a freak storm, resulting in 
his car being  written-off. The accident  occurred on a main road, albeit a fairly  remote one.
Mr A notified  Ageas  of the accident  and asked when  his car would be recovered. And, 
because he was nearly 80 miles from his home, he also asked  how he would  get home. 
Ageas arranged for a recovery truck to collect his car. And Ageas told him it would pay his 
expenses, covered under his policy, to get home.
Mr As car was collected  later that day and transported to a garage  for inspection. Mr A was 
also taken to this garage,  because he wasnt able to arrange  to get home  given his remote  
location  but this garage was 100 miles from his home. Mr A had to take a further taxi and 
train to get home.
Ageas quickly decided the car was a write-off and offered a settlement of just over £6,400. 
Mr A thought  the car would  cost more than this to replace. Ageas also said,  whilst it was 
making enquiries with the insurers of the other  drivers involved in the accident to establish  
fault, it would record  this as a fault  claim. In other words, its records  would say Mr A was at 
fault for this accident.
Mr A complained to Ageas. He was unhappy  how it dealt with him on the day of the accident, 
the settlement  being offered, and that he was being held liable for the crash.  Ageas didnt 
uphold his complaint. It said it had done  all it could to assist Mr A after the accident  and had 
offered a settlement based on a fair valuation  of his car. And it was continuing to make  
enquiries regarding  fault. Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to us. He wants to 
be paid what he thinks he deserves, and his renewal  premium to be the same as last year.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. He acknowledged how unpleasant the 
experience was but concluded Ageas did all it had to do under the terms of Mr As policy 
regarding how it dealt  with him on the day of the accident.  And Ageas valuation  was 
reasonable. Unhappy with this outcome, Mr A asked an ombudsman  to review  his complaint.
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings, repeated  below,  I said I intended to uphold part of Mr As 
complaint. 
car valuation  and payment
I want to begin  by looking at what Mr As policy  says about how it will calculate what  to pay 
when it decides  a car should be written off. In such a situation,  the policy says:
Ref: DRN65609152If the car is a total loss - Once  an engineer  has inspected and assessed the market 
value of the car, we will send you an offer of payment
And the policy defines market value as follows:
The cost of replacing  the car with one of a similar age, type, mileage and condition,  
immediately before the loss or damage  occurred
So, Ageas had to pay Mr A the market value  of his car at the time of the accident.  However,  
valuing a car isnt an exact science, as each car is different. We check  insurers have used  a 
pre-accident valuation that is reasonable to settle  a claim. We think the fairest way to do this 
is to look at the likely selling prices for a similar  car at the time the insured vehicle was 
damaged, given in the trade  guides.  The sums  quoted in these are based on a great  deal of 
research carried out nationwide, reflecting likely selling prices, rather than advertised prices 
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Here, I can see Ageas  has referred  to these guides when arriving  at its settlement figure. Its 
final valuation is taken  from an average  of the two highest values obtained from two of the 
trade guides  amounting to £6,670 and £6,173 respectively (its discounted a much lower 
guide valuation  of £4,815). And weve checked these guides too, and these figures  are 
correct. So, taking all of the above  into consideration, I think  Ageas has acted fairly in the 
steps its taken to value Mr As car. The settlement offer was fair and reasonable, and so I 
dont think Ageas need to do anything else in this regard.
I should also address  here Mr As complaint Ageas hadnt paid him the settlement as at the 
date of his complaint. Leaving aside the fact Mr A didnt agree with the final amount offered, 
its clear Ageas offered to pay Mr A the settlement sum, as an interim payment, whilst his 
complaint with us was considered. However,  Mr A didnt accept the settlement offer,  and the 
offer of payment. Given the above,  I cant say Ageas has done anything  wrong  here  it 
offered an interim payment for the amount  it had valued Mr As car at. Mr A didnt accept, 
which was his choice,  but I dont think Ageas could have done anything  more here.
how Ageas  treated Mr A on the day of the accident
Mr A is unhappy about certain things Ageas did, or didnt do, on the day of the accident. 
Having considered each of these,  Im minded to uphold part of this complaint.
Ill begin by looking  at what happened after Mr A phoned Ageas, just after the accident. Ive 
listened to the call Mr A made. Im aware  Mr As phone was broken in the accident,  and this 
was the only call he was able to make (or receive) following the accident. I appreciate  this 
caused problems  on the day, preventing  Mr A from keeping in touch with Ageas  something 
neither Mr A or Ageas  could control.
In this call, Mr A advised what  happened during the accident. Ageas call agent  said it would 
get someone to collect the car. Mr A asked if he was going  to be transported back home   
which was 80 miles away. The agent  confirmed Mr A had get me home cover and said 
Ageas would make a payment to cover the costs getting home.  The agent asked if Mr A 
would be getting  a taxi, prompting  Mr As response  he was stuck somewhere on a remote A-
road. Mr A has told us he was frustrated  by this exchange, and I can sympathise with him 
here. The agents response  didnt really show any understanding  of where he was, and how 
impractical it would have  been to try and arrange a taxi to collect  him from a remote  
Ref: DRN65609153undefined location. But, aside from annoyance, I dont think  this call impacted how the claim 
was progressed that day.
I also want to consider the steps Ageas took to enable  Mr A to return  home from the scene 
of the accident.  Mr A says Ageas didnt do enough to help him. He says Ageas could have 
sent a taxi to collect him from the scene  or contacted the Police   who were  in attendance  
to provide exact location details so a taxi knew where to go to.
Mr As policy  includes  get-you-home cover where a car is not roadworthy  following an 
accident. The policy says the following:
we can assist with getting  youfrom the scene of the incident to your home 
subject to a maximum payment of £250
The policy doesnt  say anything about  how Ageas will assist someone getting  home,  or that 
its responsible for arranging for someone  to get home. In this situation, I think  it would have 
been fair for Ageas to have delivered Mr A to a reasonably convenient place to get home, as 
opposed to arranging for him to be taken  home.
This is, in effect, what happened here.  Whilst Mr A says he was the one who asked the 
recovery lorry to transport  him from the scene, this is as much  as Ageas could or I think  
should have done. So I cant say Mr A was disadvantaged by having arranged  this himself  
he ended  up in the same  end-destination  and at the same time as if Ageas had done this. 
Yes, the destination was nearly 100 miles from Mr As home, but there would have been no 
obligation on Ageas  to ask the recovery lorry to take a detour and take Mr A to a location 
closer to his home. And, Ageas reimbursed Mr A for the costs he incurred getting from the 
garage to his home address.  So, whilst I again  understand Mr As frustrations here I dont 
think Ageas  had to do anything  extra, under his policy  terms, to assist Mr A in getting home.
Mr A is also unhappy he had to wait four hours for a recovery truck to reach him. He tells us 
that the other drivers/cars involved in the accident were all recovered  some hours before 
him. Ive looked at Ageas  claim  notes and can see Ageas agent contacted the recovery  
company approximately ten minutes after Mr As claim call. The notes mark the call as 
urgent. The notes also show the agent  tried to call and SMS Mr A after the initial  call ended  
abruptly. Its clear the agent was aware  of the fairly  remote  location  of the accident.
However, I think Ageas could have done  more  here to ensure Mr As wait for recovery  was 
kept to a minimum. As Ive said, it seems clear  the agent was aware  of the location  of the 
accident  a remote A-road with no likely  place  to seek shelter. But I cant see anyone  at 
Ageas made any effort to chase up the recovery firm to ensure they responded to the 
instruction immediately. Its not in dispute  Mr A waited four hours  to be recovered. And I 
think this is too long in the circumstances, especially when  it appears  recoveries of the other  
cars were made much quicker.  I think  its clear  this caused Mr A distress and inconvenience 
that could have been avoided, or at least lessened. And for this reason, I think Ageas  should 
pay Mr A compensation for this distress. I think £125 is a fair reflection of the distress 
caused by the excessive  delay in being recovered.
establishing fault for the accident
Mr A is unhappy the accident is being classed as a fault claim, when the circumstances 
seem to make it clear  that he didnt cause the accident. Mr A was simply trying to avoid 
colliding with a car in front of him that had skidded  in a heavy hailstorm.  Mr A thinks the 
Ref: DRN65609154driver of the car he swerved  to avoid is responsible and wants Ageas to pursue the insurer of 
that driver  to cover the costs of his claim.
I can see Ageas have made attempts to contact the insurer of this other driver, to see if it 
accepts liability for the accident. Im aware the other insurer firmly denies liability  given  it 
says its client cant be held liable  for the weather conditions. And it has confirmed it will 
defend any proceedings  that Ageas may bring to recover its costs.
Whilst Ageas has advised, in general  terms, that it wouldnt be able to commence 
proceedings until it knew the final costs  amount for Mr As claim, it believes the facts here  
the confirmed  stance of the other  insurer, together with there  having  been no contact 
between either vehicle  make  the likelihood of recovery remote. And in such circumstances, 
I dont think it would  be reasonable to expect Ageas to pursue  recovery.
On this basis, because  Ageas  are not going to recover its costs (in settling Mr As claim), it 
will be recording the claim as a fault one  which is common  where  an insurer  is unable  to 
recover its costs.  In the circumstances, I dont  think theres anything else Ageas could be 
expected to do, and I wont be asking it to do anything else in this regard.
new insurance premium
This brings  me to a complaint point not addressed by the investigator  that Mr As renewal 
premium had increased significantly after the accident. Mr A asks why this increased from 
about £300 to nearly  £450 the following year, when hed paid for no-claims  discount (NCD) 
protection on his policy. Ageas has provided  information regarding this.
Firstly, I should clarify that the £300 and £450 figures include £65 (£30 and £35) in respect 
of an extra  service Mr A agreed to purchase  from the broker  who arranged  his insurance, 
and a broker policy fee. The insurance premium  itself rose from about £240 to about £380.
In answering this complaint point, its important to begin by explaining how NCD works. NCD 
is a percentage  discount applied to insurance  premiums, built up over time. Protecting  a 
NCD only protects the percentage discount amount  - it doesnt protect the base premium 
from being increased or altered to reflect different circumstances.
Its also important to explain how the premium is calculated. The starting point is a base 
premium figure, for a particular type and age of car. This is then increased or decreased 
depending on lots of other factors   such as occupation, mileage driven,  modifications,  driver 
age, claim history, and so on, arriving at an adjusted  figure. Its this figure that is then 
reduced by the amount of NCD available  to arrive at a final premium.
In this case, Ageas has now confirmed the reasons  for the increase in Mr As insurance  
premium. To begin with, the base premium  increased in the following  year  so even  if there 
had been no accident or other  claim, Mr As premium would have increased. Thereafter, 
three things  impacted on the final premium figure.
Firstly, Mr A suffered a fault  claim as discussed above, and because  of this the base 
premium was increased. Weve seen  evidence that shows a customer whos  made a fault 
claim is statistically more likely to make  another one  so this explains why this would 
impact on the base premium. Secondly Mr As occupation had changed   he was now 
retired as opposed  to employed.  And Ageas apply a bigger  reduction  to the base premium 
when someone  is employed  as opposed  to retired. And thirdly, Mr A had purchased a new 
Ref: DRN65609155car  Ageas apply a bigger reduction to the base  premium  when  someone  has owned a car 
for a longer  period of time.  Here,  because of the write-off, Mr As length  of ownership was 
much shorter than before.  Taken together, this helps  explain why the 2018  and 2019  
renewal figures appear so far apart.
I should add here that we cant tell an insurer how much they should  charge, or how they 
assess risk. And, because the way Ageas (and other insurers) calculate  insurance premiums 
involves commercially  sensitive business  information, I cant  show  Mr A this. But I have seen 
this, and Im satisfied the price Mr A was quoted  has been  calculated correctly, and all of 
Ageas customers in a similar position  would likely have been  charged a similar premium. 
So, I dont think Ageas have done anything wrong  in how theyve calculated Mr As renewal 
premium, and I wont be asking them to do anything further in this regard.
To summarise, I think Ageas fairly  valued  Mr As car. And aside from not arranging to 
transport Mr A from the scene of the accident,  it did all it could reasonably have been 
expected to do through its agent in assisting Mr A getting home  from the scene. Im also 
satisfied Ageas calculated Mr As renewal premium in a fair manner. However, I dont think  
Ageas did enough to ensure Mr A was rescued as quickly as possible  the unacceptable  
and avoidable  delay here caused distress for which I think  Ageas must pay to Mr A 
compensation of £125.
response to my provisional  findings 
Ageas has responded and accepted my provisional findings. Mr A has also responded but 
has not accepted these.  He makes various points which I now summarise.
-Ageas  sent the wrong type of recovery truck to recover his vehicle, despite him advising 
his car was in a ditch and would need  specialist lifting equipment  to recover it.
-Mr A was told by Ageas agent,  when he advised them of the accident, to get a taxi to the 
local train station,  and then get a train and taxi home from there. Mr A subsequently  
found out the train station mentioned wasnt even open on that day and is unhappy the 
advisor suggested a means to get home  that wasnt achievable.
-Mr A also questions  what would have happened  had the recovery  truck  not agreed  to 
transport him to their base  - Ageas should have  sent a taxi to transport  him home.  
-The compensation award Ive recommended, of £125, is insufficient given these issues
-Mr A paid over £8,000  to buy a similar  model  car, albeit  with a reduced specification   he 
remains unhappy with the final offer Ageas made which  is less than that sum. Mr A is 
also unhappy with the speed  with which their final settlement  offer was made.
-Regarding the issue  of Mr A not accepting  Ageas offer of an interim payment, he 
questions why Ageas didnt  offer this to him again.
-Causing Mr A most concern, however, is him being held to be at fault  for the accident, 
from an insurance perspective. 
-And, Mr A still doesnt accept how his renewal premium increased by about  50%
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  the strength of Mr As 
feelings, outlined  in his detailed further  submission, however this doesnt contain  any new 
information that prompts me to alter my findings  - the matters Mr A raised were considered 
by me, in detail, when  arriving at my provisional  conclusions. 
Ageas action on the day of the accident
Ref: DRN65609156Mr A says Ageas agent was wrong  when suggesting he try and get to a train station - that 
was closed - to try and arrange to get home. He criticises  the agent  for having poor local 
knowledge when  making this suggestion.  He also criticises  Ageas for sending the wrong 
type of recovery truck. I do appreciate why Mr A makes these points  and said as much  in 
my provisional decision, particularly regarding the agent not really  appreciating the 
remoteness of his location when  suggesting how Mr A may get home. But, in deciding this 
case, I need to take account  of the actual inconvenience Mr A suffered  as a result  of Ageass 
actions (or mistakes)  what did or didnt happen,  rather than what may have happened. 
Ive explained  in my provisional findings what Mr As policy provides for under his get me 
home cover  a payment  towards the expenses  he incurs  getting home from the scene of an 
accident. I also explained that his policy doesnt  say Ageas has to arrange how Mr A gets 
home. So, its clear Ageas  was under no obligation  to arrange for a taxi to transport him 
home. I said I thought  Ageas had done everything  it needed to do  under the terms of his 
policy  to assist  Mr A in getting home.  Theres nothing further  I can add in this regard.  
I accept the recovery  truck  sent was unsuitable for pulling  Mr As car from a ditch. However,  
by the time this vehicle arrived, Mr As car had already been pulled from the ditch  by another  
truck who attended the scene for another  driver. So, Mr A didnt experience inconvenience 
as a result  of the wrong truck being  sent. Mr A was picked up and transported  away from 
the scene in the same amount of time as had the correct truck been sent. And the recovery 
truck driver did agree  to transport Mr A back to the depot, so I dont need to consider what  
would have happened if that offer hadnt  been made  as Ive said,  Im required to consider  
what did or didnt happen,  rather than what might  or might not have happened. Ive agreed 
Mr A waited too long for the recovery  truck to arrive,  and this justified a payment of £125 
compensation. For all of the reasons  outlined  above, I wont  be increasing that amount.  
car valuation, and non-payment  of settlement amount offered
Mr A has mentioned he paid over £8,000  for a new car, of a similar model and age, but with 
a reduced specification. Hes unhappy I havent asked Ageas to increase their settlement 
offer  just over £6,400  - to a figure closer to this sum, as this represents  the cost to him of 
seeking a physically equivalent  car to the one lost following the accident. 
I appreciate Mr A paid more than the settlement amount  when he replaced his car. And his 
policy defines the market value of his car  the amount Ageas has to pay to settle  his claim  
as the cost of replacing his car with one of a similar  age, type, mileage and condition, 
immediately before the loss or damage  occurred. So I can understand why Mr A thinks he 
should be entitled to a higher amount than Ageas offered. 
But Ive already explained how we expect insurers to calculate  the value of a car following its 
write-off  referring to values listed in trade  guides,  which I explained provide an accurate  
guide to likely car purchase prices. Ageas discounted the lower of three valuations  arriving  
at the average  of two much higher valuations when deciding what  to offer Mr A as a final 
settlement. As Ive said before, this is what wed expect an insurer to do, and was fair. I can 
also see Mr A provided Ageas with details of various  similar cars, most  priced  for sale 
between about  £6,100  and £6,800,  with a couple above £7,000. These  are all for sale 
prices, and likely include an amount for negotiation,  so I think this supports the figures Ageas 
was able to obtain from the trade  guides  that informed its final settlement offer.  So, taken 
together, I wont be asking Ageas to revisit the amount theyve offered. 
Ref: DRN65609157Regarding the delay  in Ageas providing their final offer,  I can see this was made only nine 
days after the accident. Yes, this followed two lower  offers being  made,  which caused some 
frustration, but a fair offer was made  in what wed consider to be a reasonable timeframe.  
Finally, I disagree with Mr A that Ageas should have  chased him to see if he wanted to 
change his mind  about  accepting their offer, pending  the outcome of his complaint with us. 
Mr A was aware the offer had been  made - and it remained  available  for him to accept if he 
chose. I dont think Ageas were  required to prompt Mr A to see if hed changed his mind.  
How Ageas have classified Mr As claim
Ive already explained the steps  Ageas  have  taken to try and recover the costs theyve paid 
(or agreed to pay) to Mr A from the insurer of the driver Mr A swerved to avoid. I said why I 
think Ageas actions here are fair. But I will explain,  in a little more  detail, how an insurer  
records details of claims made. Insurers often refer to claims as fault or non-fault. But a 
fault claim doesn't mean  the policyholder was to blame for the accident/claim, just that the 
insurer hasn't been  able to recover its cost for settling it. So, where  an insurer has no-one to 
recover costs from,  theyll  generally  refer to it as being a fault claim. Insurers record  claims 
on a shared database called CUE, but dont  use fault or non-fault  on this  instead they 
use bonus allowed  or disallowed. Where the insurer has no prospect of recovering its 
costs its likely to record this on CUE as bonus disallowed.  This is likely whats  happened  
here. So, I think Ageas acted reasonably  here, and theres nothing further I can ask it to do.  
Premium increase
Mr A remains unhappy about  the increase in his previous renewal premium. Ive explained  
how that was calculated, and how Mr A has been treated the same by Ageas as any other 
policyholder in a similar  situation. Theres nothing further for me to add here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold in part Mr As complaint, and require Ageas 
Insurance Ltd to pay Mr A compensation of £125  for the distress  caused by the excessive 
delay in being recovered from the scene of his accident.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Mark Evans
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6560915