K820x#14Complaint
Ms L says DFS Trading  Limited mis-sold her payment protection  insurance (PPI) alongside 
finance to buy some furniture.
Background
In 2007 Ms L bought some furniture on finance  over a 30-month period  at a DFS 
store. At the same time she also took out PPI  it was a regular premium  policy  providing 
protection for her monthly  loan repayments against  disability and unemployment. It cost 
around £13 per month.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms L disagreed,  so the case  
was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken  whats  relevant into account  
in deciding Ms Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive firstly  considered whether DFS made it clear to Ms L that she had a choice about taking 
out PPI and if she agreed to it on that basis. Ive thought very carefully about Ms L saying 
she declined  PPI and that it was added  without her knowledge. And I note the form headed 
Sales Contract included a box to be ticked to show Ms L required PPI which wasnt  ticked.
That said,  the credit  agreement Ms L signed on the same day included a separate section 
about optional PPI, which required Ms L to tick a box if she wanted the cover.  And that 
box was ticked.  A separate  demands  and needs  statement asked a series of questions 
about Ms Ls circumstances and explained that DFS was recommending PPI. A box at the 
end of the form was ticked to indicate  Ms L required optional PPI. 
I dont know why the section for PPI on the sales contract form was left blank, although I 
can see the total monthly payment shown  was inclusive of the PPI premium, just as it was 
on the credit  agreement. That, and how all the forms were completed  overall,  leads me to 
believe the information relating to PPI was omitted from the sales  contract by mistake. I 
note Ms Ls argument  that she didnt tick any boxes for PPI. But, on the balance  of the 
available evidence and in the absence of enough  evidence showing otherwise, Im satisfied 
she was given a choice to take out PPI and that she agreed to buy it.
I believe DFS recommended the cover  to Ms L. That meant DFS had to make sure the 
policy was right for Ms L. And it had to give her enough clear  information so she could 
make a properly informed decision about whether to accept the recommendation or not. 
Ive kept this in mind  in considering the complaint.
I cant be certain that DFS advised  Ms L properly or that it gave her sufficiently  clear  
information about the policy and its recommendation so she could  decide  if she wanted to 
go ahead. I do, nevertheless, think the cost was made clear to her.
Ref: DRN62824072For the reasons Ill set out below,  I think the policy was ultimately  suitable  for Ms L 
despite any failings  by DFS. And in light of this and her circumstances  at the time,  I dont 
think her decision to buy PPI would have been different if DFS had done any more  as:
 Ms L appears to have been eligible  for the policy and wouldnt  have been  put off by 
any of the key limitations and exclusions of cover  for example the exclusions  
around existing  medical conditions.
 the policy appears to have been affordable and, as Ive already said above, Im 
satisfied the cost was made clear to her at the time. Given that this was a regular 
premium policy,  it was flexible in that Ms L could have cancelled  it at any time if 
she decided it was no longer suitable for her.
 Ms L wasnt entitled to any enhanced  sick pay through her work but the policy  
benefits were considerable. Although Ms L sold goods on an informal  basis as well 
as doing her regular job, it seems  the former was only very limited and the income  it 
generated was relatively low. Overall, I think the policy would have helped her out at 
a difficult time and so would have been  useful to her.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Ms Ls lost out because  of how DFS sold her 
the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6282407