K820x#14complaint
Ms G has complained about Newell Palmer Limited. She has raised three  issues,  the 
application of an initial advice fee of 1 per cent;  secondly, the possible impact of Inheritance 
Tax after a refund of an erroneous fund switch  fee was paid into her Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) and thirdly,  that she received poor advice on her pension contribution annual 
allowance.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision.
I explained why I didnt intend  to uphold the complaint.
Newell Palmer responded  and said that it had nothing to add. Ms G didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given there have been no substantive responses  to my provisional decision I see no reason 
to change my provisional conclusions. I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61265852extract from provisional  decision
complaint
Ms G has complained about Newell Palmer Limited. She has raised three issues,  the application  of an 
initial advice fee of 1 per cent; secondly, the possible impact of Inheritance Tax after a refund of an 
erroneous fund switch  fee was paid into her Individual  Savings Account (ISA) and thirdly, that she 
received poor advice on her pension  contribution  annual  allowance.
background
Ms G became  a client of Newell Palmer Limited  in 2015 after her former adviser  sold his business  to 
Newell Palmer. She first met with them in July 2015. The purpose of the meeting was to introduce 
Newell Palmer as the new advisers and to conduct a full financial review in order to understand her 
objectives and circumstances.
During this meeting, Ms G was provided  with the Terms of Business and a Client Service Agreement. 
A personal financial and risk questionnaires were  also completed.
The Client Service Agreement mentioned three types of charges for the premium service.  An initial 
fee was recorded as 1 per cent for funds over £200,000, Time-Cost basis per transaction  based on 
work completed and an on-going annual  fee of 1 per cent per annum  subject to a minimum  of £1,000.
The risk questionnaire  suggested Ms G was a cautious investor.  Newell Palmer  recommended a 
review of her pension portfolio to ensure it was aligned with her attitude  to risk. Newell Palmer noted 
that the portfolio was largely concentrated  in one asset class  property.
A discussion was held around the personal  pension  annual allowance.  Ms G was informed  that the 
current annual allowance was £40,000 and if she continued with her current levels of employer and 
employee contributions,  she would be liable for a tax charge for the excess  payments.
It was agreed that Newell Palmer would investigate if any carry forward was available for
Ms G and it suggested that she stop her personal  contributions in the meantime.
Following this meeting, Ms G was sent an Investment Review Report  on 25 September 2015.  It 
explained its Portfolio Monitoring Service and the advantages of diversification. A recommendation 
was made to switch  the holdings within  the pension into Newell Palmers Cautious Portfolio,  available 
under the firms Premium Service, which offered  greater asset diversification, more aligned to her 
attitude to risk.
The report also listed the fees that would be charged. These were 1 per cent as an initial fee and 1 
per cent as an ongoing  annual charge. The report was signed  by both the business and Ms G.
When the fund switch  request  was submitted to the pension holder, Newell  Palmer made  an error on 
the submission  form and charged a fund switch fee of around £4,500 which was 1 per cent of the fund 
value. Although the fee error was corrected it couldnt be paid back into the pension as this would 
have caused an unauthorised  payment  as the annual allowance had already been exceeded. 
At a meeting in December 2015, Newell  Palmer  proposed to pay the monies, after loss calculations, 
into an ISA which Ms G was intending to set up. This was agreed and an ISA set up. Newell Palmer 
waived its initial fee on the ISA in acknowledgement  of its error.
Also, at the December 2015 meeting, Newell  Palmer  recommended that Ms G stop her employee 
contributions to prevent  her exceeding the annual allowance and suggested the monies could be 
redirected to the ISA.
Ref: DRN61265853A suitability  report was sent to Ms G in April 2016 after the ISA was set up. It detailed  opening the ISA 
and setting up regular contributions. The report mentioned that it was not possible to hold an ISA in 
trust so it may become subject to Inheritance Tax.
An adjudicator looked into the complaint. She considered it wasnt clear  on the client service  
agreement what fees would have been applicable to Ms G. She wasnt a new client as she was 
inherited from a business  that was taken over by Newell Palmer  and the work undertaken was a fund 
switch not a pension transfer. The terms of business said that pensions advice (including set-up and 
transfer) could be under taken on a fixed-fee or on a time-cost basis.  However,  she didnt think  Newell 
Palmer had done either.
She said that the Client Agreement could  have  been  clearer about what fees would  be applicable to 
Ms G. Furthermore, had she remained a client of the previous  adviser she would not have paid an 
initial fee for the review  conducted and advice  provided  in July and September  2015.
Newell Palmer had acquired an ongoing  business and there wasnt anything  to suggest  that Ms G 
was given  an option to opt-out of continuing to be a client of Newell  Palmer. The acquisition of her 
previous advisers business was beyond her control.
The adjudicator considered that the initial fee charged wasnt fair and reasonable especially  
considering the ongoing  fee was charged in the same  year. So this part of the complaint was upheld.
The adjudicator also noted that the incorrect fund switch charge of 1 per cent applied to the pension 
could not be refunded  to the pension. So the only option would have been to return  the funds  to Ms G. 
This was discussed during  the meeting in December 2015  and mutually agreed.  Whilst  she agreed 
that the issue  of IHT was not discussed during the meeting and the information that it would be 
subject to IHT was only provided  later, she was satisfied there wasnt any other way to have  refunded 
the incorrect  fees.  And Newell Palmer had waived  a fee in acknowledgement of the error.
The third and final point  raised by Ms G was about the tax charge as the pension contributions were  
in excess of the annual allowance in 2016/17  and 2017/2018.
The adjudicator considered that Ms G was informed in the letter of 28 September 2015 that there may 
be substantial tax bill. She was also told the business  had trouble getting information from the 
employer. The adjudicator felt that Ms G was given sufficient information about the annual allowance. 
She was advised to stop her own contributions  and speak  with her employers. So she had sufficient  
awareness to take steps to mitigate her position. 
The adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. She asked Newell-Palmer to put Ms G in the position 
she would have been had the initial fee not been applied  to the portfolio. So essentially, increase the 
value by the amount of the fee plus any growth on that amount in line with the portfolio performance 
from the date it was applied to the date of calculation. 
In addition, she said that Newell Pryor should pay Ms G £200 for the trouble  and upset  she has 
experienced during this time.
Ms G accepted the view.
Newell Palmer disagreed with the opinion and said that Ms G was informed of the fee and that it was 
charged in accordance to the terms and conditions. 
The adjudicator didnt change her opinion  of the complaint and it has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
Ref: DRN61265854my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I note that, in effect, agreement has been reached on two aspects of Ms Gs complaint. The issue 
which remains  outstanding is whether Newell Palmer was entitled to charge  the fees it did when it 
recommended and actioned the pension switch.
Having considered  the evidence, Ive reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator on this point.  
Im satisfied that Newell Palmer charged fees which had been set out with reasonable  clarity and 
agreed by Ms G. In these circumstances  I dont think I can say that it was acting unfairly.
The Investment Review  Report  from September 2015  set out the proposed charges.  I dont think 
there was any lack of clarity. It said there would be an initial charge of 1 per cent along with an annual  
charge of 1 per cent. These were separate fees,  one for the initial advice which included advice  to 
change the pension investments and the second was for the ongoing  management of the 
investments. Ms G signed the report. I dont think there should have  been any misunderstanding 
about the fees payable. I dont think the fact that Ms Gs business had been transferred from a 
different adviser is of particular  relevance  in relation to the fees charged. This was a new arrangement 
and the fees are not untypical. I think Newell Palmer was entitled to propose its own fee arrangement 
which Ms G could accept or not. She was not under any obligation to instruct  them  and could  have 
chosen other  advisers if she had wished  to.
I do note that Ms G was in poor health at the time but she was still in work and theres nothing to 
suggest that she lacked any capacity to deal with these matters. And given her profession and 
qualifications, I think  it is reasonable that she would  have understood  the nature  of the agreement she 
was entering into. 
So for these reasons Im not minded to uphold  the complaint or make  any award.
Ref: DRN6126585