K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs M bought PPI to protect  their existing mortgage repayments. Halifax  
cant confirm where  the policy was sold,  Mr and Mrs M recall it was in one of the banks 
branches and Ive reviewed the sale on that basis. The policy  was in Mr Ms sole name and 
gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly 
amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  so the complaint was
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how 
Halifax sold PPI at the time. The bank cant provide a copy of Mr Ms policy document  so Ive 
relied on one from the nearest date available.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they werent aware  PPI was attached to their account, it was 
added without them knowing. They would never  have taken it out. Halifax says its 
more likely than not the optional nature of the policy was verbally explained before 
the sale was concluded. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Halifax doesnt have any of the 
paperwork from the sale. But thats  not unreasonable given how long ago it was. Ive 
taken into account  Mr and Mrs Ms comments but I also have to consider how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect  what they recall. Overall,  without stronger  
evidence, I cant fairly  conclude Halifax didnt make Mr and Mrs M aware the PPI was 
optional and they didnt agree to take it out for Mr M.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr M to Mr and Mrs M and I think  it seems to have
been right for him based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr M 
was entitled to less than three months  sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for 
up to 12 months for all accident  and sickness claims. It also gave him up to 12 
months redundancy cover.  He had savings worth  around three months  salary  at the 
time of the sale but the PPI would have meant they could use these to cover  other 
living expenses whilst  not working, or keep them intact for their future needs. Mr and 
Mrs M had borrowed quite  a large  sum over a long period, secured on their home. So 
the effects of not keeping up with the repayments  could have been serious for them. 
Overall, I think the PPI would have  been useful for them if Mr M was sick, had an 
accident or lost his job.
Ref: DRN64749872Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs M all the information they needed before 
they decided to buy PPI. I dont  know  when  the cost was made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. Mr M doesnt  appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  (such as those affecting people  
with pre-existing medical conditions or on certain types of employment contract) so I 
dont think more  information on the relevant terms would have influenced them. 
Overall, I dont  think better information  on the policy wouldve  changed  their decision 
to buy it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs M have  lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6474987