K822xcomplaint
Ms A complains  that Santander  UK Plc wouldnt  remove  her late brother from their mortgage  
or convert  it from interest only to repayment.  She complains that Santander wrote to her 
brother after she told it he had passed away. And she says that it didnt write to her in large 
print as shed requested.
background 
Ms As late mother had a mortgage with Santander.  When she passed away it was thought  
she had died intestate, so the property passed to Ms A and her half-brother, who Ill call 
Mr B. The mortgage was subsequently amended  to their names. It was originally on 
repayment terms, but had been converted to interest  only.
Ms As mothers will later came to light, showing that the property had been left to Ms A only.  
Following a court case, Mr B was removed from the propertys title. Santander  agreed  to the 
change in property  ownership, but said the mortgage should remain in joint names. 
Ms A asked Santander  to convert  the mortgage  back to repayment, but it said it couldnt do 
so without Mr Bs agreement.
In 2017, Ms A complained  about  the mortgage  remaining in joint names and on interest  only 
terms. Santander didnt  uphold her complaint.
In 2018, Mr B passed away, which meant  the mortgage automatically  reverted to Ms As sole 
name. 
Ms A complained again, and Santander  sent her another response. It didnt uphold  her main 
complaint, but offered £40 compensation for mis-addressing a letter  to her with someone 
elses name.
Our investigator thought that Ms As complaint  about the mortgage remaining in joint names 
and on interest only terms had been made too late. But he thought Santander  should  pay 
£150 compensation for sending a letter  to Mr B, upsetting Ms A, after shed told it of his 
death and for not sending a letter in large  font as shed requested. Santander accepted  that 
but Ms A didnt. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service say that a complaint has to be made  to 
Santander before its brought  to us. Santander has eight weeks  to deal with it, and should 
then issue a letter known  as a final response  setting out its view of the complaint. Ms A then 
has six months from the date of that letter to contact  us. After that we cant  consider a 
complaint  unless  there are exceptional circumstances that explain why she couldnt 
contact us in time.
Ms A complained to us in 2018, within six months of the second  complaint response  but 
more than six months after the first one sent in 2017. Im afraid that means  her complaint is 
out of time. The time limit runs from the first final response, since  it set out Santanders view 
Ref: DRN60126272of the complaint. While  the second  response  also contained the time limit warning, it didnt 
change the deadline since it didnt add anything to, or change  anything about, the previous 
complaint outcome. It just reiterated Santanders  view of the complaint. I dont therefore think 
the second letter withdrew or superseded the earlier letter,  and so time runs from its first final 
response.
Im very sorry to hear of Ms As various illnesses. Im sure shes  had a very difficult  time and 
I wish her a speedy recovery. But I dont think they amount  to exceptional circumstances 
explaining why she couldnt complain in time.  I say that because  I can see from Santanders 
records that she was in touch with the bank during the six month window. And if she could 
contact the bank, she could also contact us. So I dont think  her illness  was what  prevented 
her from bringing the complaint to us.
However, we can look at the rest of her complaint. Santander was aware that Mr B had 
passed away  and had written to Ms A explaining how it would manage his accounts.  So I 
dont think it should  have written to Mr B knowing hed passed away,  and I can understand 
how upsetting  Ms A would  have found that.
Ms A had also requested Santander to write  to her using large font. Thats a reasonable 
adjustment, and it agreed to do so. Im pleased to see that, for the most part, it did. But one 
complaint response  doesnt seem to have  been  issued in large  font, and it should have 
been.
Ive carefully considered  these failings. And I understand that while  Ms A is concerned about 
them, theyre not the real heart  of her complaint as she sees  it. Ive explained why we cant  
deal with those  issues. I think the issues we can look at did cause her unnecessary upset  
though, and I think further compensation of £150  is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Ms A 
£150 in addition to the compensation its previously offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6012627