K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire  Building  Society, trading at the time as Chelsea Building 
Society (Chelsea), mis-sold them the PPI.
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage.  They increased their borrowing with a further 
advance on the mortgage in 2003.  But it wasnt until 2004 that Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI 
policy to cover their mortgage.
The mortgage was in joint names but only Mr M was insured under the PPI policy.  The 
cover taken was for accident and sickness only. In the event of a successful claim Mr M 
would receive the monthly benefit  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs M have  said they werent told the policy was optional but I think  Chelsea made it 
clear that they didnt  have  to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out.
It doesnt appear  that the policy was taken  out alongside any additional borrowing, which  
suggests the decision to take out the PPI was made  separately to the need for additional 
finance. Chelsea has told us the policy was taken  out during a telephone  call and it has 
provided a copy of its internal declaration  a form completed by the staff member during 
this call. I can see the form lists questions to be asked of the applicant and answers have 
been selected next to them. 
If the application was being made  after completion  of the mortgage, the form asks for a 
reason why this cover  is now required and I can see that an answer relating to receiving a 
mailshot has been entered. Chelsea has said that it would  have sent Mr and Mrs M a letter  
advising them about the insurance and detailing a number for them  to ring to arrange 
cover. So from what is written on the form and what Chelsea have told us, it seems  most 
likely that Mr and Mrs M decided  to contact Chelsea to arrange cover after receiving the 
letter.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they only took out the policy due to pressure placed on them 
by the Chelseas representative on the call. Unfortunately a copy of the call recording is no 
longer available, which is understandable considering how long ago this took place. So I 
need to consider what I think  is more likely  to have happened.
Ref: DRN63084742Ive thought very carefully about what they have said and whilst I appreciate  this may be 
their current  recollections of the sale, I have to take into consideration that this event was 
over 14 years ago and memories can fade over time. Ive noted Mr and Mrs M initially told 
us they thought the application  for their loan may have been affected if they didnt take out 
the policy. As the PPI was taken out after the original mortgage in 2002  and the further 
advance in 2003 were approved, the sale of the PPI wouldnt  have had any effect on either 
of these applications  so it appears they may have been mistaken about this. So without 
any other evidence  to show that Mr and Mrs M were put under any pressure to take out the 
policy, I cant uphold the complaint on this basis.
So, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Chelsea made it clear that the policy  
was optional and that Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI, knowing they could refuse  it if they 
didnt want it  even  if they dont recall  that now.
Chelsea didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed to decide  for 
themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Chelsea  gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI for Mr M only - so it looks  like they wanted  
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like they were affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
So I dont  think  better information  about  the PPI would have put them  off taking out the 
cover.
From what  weve  been told, Mr M was employed via an agency. Mr Ms representatives have 
said he therefore wasnt eligible for cover under the policy.  Having checked the policy  terms 
and conditions I can see that being  an agency worker would have meant Mr M couldnt have 
claimed for loss of employment. But Mr M only took out accident and sickness  cover - 
meaning this exclusion  wouldnt  apply. So this policy could still have provided a useful 
benefit to him.
Mr M has also told us he would  receive  six months full pay, followed by six months  half pay 
from his employer if he was too ill to work. As Mr M was employed  via an agency, I think  it is 
unlikely he would have  received this type of employment benefit as this is usually only 
available to permanent  members of staff.  But in any event  this policy  would have paid out the 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months, which would be in addition to any sick pay he would 
receive. And whilst  Ive noted Mr and Mrs M have told us they had some savings they could 
have used, by having this policy it would  have enabled them  to protect  those funds for 
another purpose, or use them to cover other essential living  expenses. So this doesnt make 
a difference to my outcome. 
Which means Chelsea  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Chelsea has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:
Chelsea got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Chelsea didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN63084743To put that right, Chelsea has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have  to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6308474