K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) have paid a 
congestion charge  fine for her vehicle without  her consent and have subsequently asked her 
to pay an administration  charge.
background
Miss S took receipt of a new vehicle in July 2016.  She financed  the deal through  a contract 
hire agreement with VWFS. 
In June 2018 a congestion  zone fine of £80 was issued  to VWFS as the car had been 
pictured in a restricted  area. The fine was paid by VWFS  very shortly afterwards and they 
then asked Miss S to refund the charge and to pay them  a £25 fee to cover their 
administration costs.
Miss S thought they shouldnt  have  settled the fine without informing her and she explained 
that by doing so shed  missed out on the opportunity to appeal the decision. She said the 
contract she had with VWFS was unclear about what would happen in these  circumstances.
VWFS explained that with congestion  zone charges they didnt have an option  to transfer 
liability to Miss S and that if the fine wasnt paid within 14 days it would rise to £160 so they 
thought it best to pay quickly in those circumstances. 
Miss S was disappointed with their response  so she referred her complaint to this service  
and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He contacted Transport for London so that he 
could clarify  the approach. They explained that the charge is made to the registered keeper 
of the vehicle, in this case VWFS,  and whilst  it is possible to transfer  that liability  to the driver 
in some circumstances,  when the hire agreement is over six months in duration  the liability  
must remain with the registered keeper. He noted that the finance  agreement explained that 
VWFS would charge  £25 each time it had to issue a reminder  letter, notice or demand  
and he therefore  didnt think it was unreasonable of them to make  a £25 administration 
charge. Overall, the adjudicator didnt think VWFS had made any errors.
But Miss S disagreed  she said shed also spoken with Transport for London and that theyd  
confirmed a business could transfer liability for the fine and she therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar 
reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN60902522board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a contract hire agreement. The contract hire agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Transport for London  has explained, for the reasons Ive set out in the background of this 
complaint, that its not possible to transfer  liability for a congestion zone  fine to the driver. 
The charge  is made  on the registered keeper who is VWFS. And even if Im wrong about 
that Ive reviewed the charge notification  and can see that VWFS werent  provided  with an 
option to transfer  liability  within that notice. 
In those circumstances VWFS have 14 days to pay the fine before its increased. I dont 
think theyre therefore being unreasonable  trying to settle the fine at the earliest opportunity  
as failure to do so could  result in them having to pay more and having to recover  more from 
Miss S. 
And, having paid that fine I think the charge theyve made for administration  is reasonable 
too. Theyve explained  in the contract that they would charge for notices or demands and I 
can understand that it wouldnt  be possible to include within these terms every type of notice 
or demand  they may make. Its clear  VWFS would have incurred some administration costs  
when processing  the transaction  so I dont think theyve been unreasonable passing this 
charge on to Miss S.
In their final response to Miss S they explained  that shed been provided with an opportunity 
to appeal the fine through a permissions letter but shed  declined their offer. So it seems  
that Miss S didnt wish to appeal the fine but even if she did VWFS provided a channel for 
her to do so. 
So overall, I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to say VWFS have done anything 
wrong here and I wont be asking  them  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6090252