K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that Citibank UK Limited  (Citibank)  formerly  standing as Citibank 
Europe plc  recommended an unsuitable Structured Loan Note  (SLN) to him in 2012 into 
which he invested around $130,000. He seeks compensation  in this respect and for the 
$73,000 (approximately) capital loss he incurred upon maturity in 2017.
background
The main  details of the SLN were as follows:
Its issuer was the Royal Bank of Canada; its distributor was Citibank International 
Plc; its currency  basis was USD;  and its term was fixed for five years (with  an 
autocall feature  which allowed RBC to redeem it early under prescribed conditions).
Its reference item was the Gazprom OAO (Gazprom) security.  There  was a non-
principal protection  feature which meant return of capital invested  in the SLN was not 
guaranteed and that any return of capital  was dependent on prescribed conditions.
The potential for income from the SLN came  from its coupon  feature; there  were  20 
quarterly coupon payment periods (covering the five years  term) with 20 specific  
valuation dates  within them (that is, dates on which the official closing market price  
level for Gazprom in each quarter was determined and noted); there was a barrier 
level of 55% (that is, 55% of the initial market price level for Gazprom  at the outset of 
the SLN) which  determined whether (or not) a coupon had been  earned;  where, on 
each of the 20 valuation dates, Gazproms closing price  was at or above  the barrier  
level a coupon (interest)  payment  of 2.00% - 2.50% (of principal) was earned for the 
quarter; and where, on each of the 20 valuation dates, Gazproms  closing price  was 
lower than the barrier  level no coupon was earned.
The potential for a return of capital from the SLN, upon maturity, was based on 
another barrier  level; this was also 55% of the initial market price  for Gazprom; 
where, on the final valuation date, the closing price level for Gazprom  was at or 
above this barrier level 100% of the capital was returned to the investor; otherwise, 
where the closing  price  was lower than the barrier  level,  the investor  would receive 
the capital amount  minus the percentage by which Gazproms  price  had fallen 
between the initial  and final valuations (with a minimum payment of zero).
The minimum investment in the SLN was $130,000. Its literature  said it matched 
investors with an objective based on the view that Gazproms  market price will retain 
its value or appreciate  over the five years term and matched  investors with a 
moderate risk profile.
Mr P says he received  coupons of almost $26,000  over the SLNs five years  term but that 
they were significantly  outweighed  by the capital loss (as mentioned  above)  he incurred 
upon maturity.  He says the recommendation was unsuitable for him because:
He did not have the capacity for loss required  to undertake the SLN; he was 
unemployed at the time of advice; and he invested with a redundancy payment lump 
sum that he could  not afford  to lose.
He did not want to risk his capital; he wanted  a decent return on his investment 
without risk of capital loss.
Citibank did not properly assess his risk profile  and he did not agree with the 
moderate risk profile it allocated  to him.
Ref: DRN60846522The full breadth of risks in the SLN were not explained to him  or were not properly 
explained to him  including the corporate, market  and geopolitical risks (and 
uncertainties) associated with Gazprom at the time.
The risk-to-reward  ratio associated with the SLN was not quantified and explained to 
him, so he could not  and did not  make an informed decision about  it.
The SLN was riskier than a moderate risk product; it was a high-risk  product.
The investment  caused him significant  distress  during the five years term as he 
witnessed problems  in Gazproms performance  and was worried  about how those 
problems would  impact the SLN upon  maturity. He asked Citibank for advice during 
this period but received  no advice.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He issued two different views on it. 
Initially, he said as follows:
He noted that Citibank  disputes  the complaint; that it does not consider its 
recommendation to have been  unsuitable;  that it considers the SLN to have  been  
suitable for Mr Ps investor profile  at the time; that it says the SLNs risks were 
properly explained  to him; and that it disputes his claim that he was unemployed.
He also noted  that Citibank did not issue a suitability letter  to Mr P prior to the 
investments; that, instead, the SLNs  brochure  was sent to him along with the 
subscription agreement  and that the SLN was recommended to him in October 2012 
over the telephone and in the course of him returning the agreement  to Citibank.
However, the adjudicator highlighted that profiling  of Mr P as an investor  began  much 
earlier in February 2012; that information recorded in this respect shows that he was 
unemployed, was living on a years  worth of savings, expected  to draw income from 
his total financial  assets over the following five years, had an objective  for growth 
and income, had a moderate risk profile,  had extensive investment knowledge and 
experience, had just over a million USD in financial assets (half a million in equities, 
half a million in fixed  income securities  and $50,000 in mutual  funds) and was 
educated by Citibank on dual currency placements and structured products.
He found it unsatisfactory that the SLN was recommended  to Mr P over the 
telephone. He also did not consider that his extensive investment experience  diluted  
Citibanks responsibility as the adviser and expert in the relationship   on which Mr P 
was entitled to rely. Overall, and mindful of his personal circumstances at the time, 
the nature  of his existing investments and their contents, he considered that Mr P 
was more likely to have had a cautious  risk profile  not a moderate risk profile.  He 
also found it unsatisfactory that Citibank appeared to have given Mr P the impression 
that the SLN was partly capital protected  when the SLN was a product with the risk 
of total capital loss, of income not being  earned  and of its early redemption.
He concluded  that the complaint should be upheld; that the SLN was unsuitable for 
Mr P; that it mismatched the cautious  risk profile he probably  had at the time and its 
risks were not properly explained  to him; and that between February and October  
2012 he made an earlier structured note investment  which  then meant  the SLN 
investment thereafter over exposed him to high risks.
Thereafter and upon receipt and consideration of new evidence from Citibank, the 
adjudicator revised  his findings as follows:
The complaint  should not be upheld and the SLN was not unsuitable  for Mr P.
Evidence from Citibank showed  a tax declaration from 2011 which suggests that 
whilst he was not permanently employed  he was nevertheless  in freelance  
employment in 2012; that he wilfully  selected  the moderate risk profile and chose not 
Ref: DRN60846523to select the lower/cautious options  that were available in the assessment; and that 
his structured note investment  prior to the SLN was a reflection of his previous 
experience in bonds and equities.
There is telephone  call recording evidence which shows  that during discussion of the 
SLN in October 2012 Citibank offered Mr P an alternative option of less risky 
investments; he was told they were more conservative than the SLN,  that investors 
who were reluctant to invest without  the assurance  of capital protection  would 
consider these alternatives to the SLN and he was told about the autocall early  
redemption feature of the SLN; in response, he queried and was told about  the 
potential for better returns from the SLN and then he preferred/decided  to proceed 
with the SLN. Evidence of a subsequent  telephone call shows  that Citibank repeated 
to Mr P the risk of no capital protection and said enough to establish  that the coupon  
rate could vary. In addition, there is evidence in the SLNs literature which  shows that 
an extensive list of risk notices (about the SLN and Gazprom) was available  to him.
Mr Ps decision and the level of his questions during the telephone calls showed  that 
he had taken time to properly inform himself about  the SLN, to consider its risks and 
to consider his preference for the potential returns.
Overall and based on the new evidence,  the SLN did not mismatch Mr Ps risk profile 
and was not unsuitable for him at the time.
Mr P disagreed with this outcome.  He maintained his core claims (as summarised above) 
and, in addition,  he mainly said:
He was unemployed between November 2010  and July 2013, having been made 
redundant. The document that referred  to him as a freelancer misrepresented his 
status. At the time of the SLN investment  he had no employment income. Available 
evidence already establishes that Citibank knew he was unemployed at the time of 
advice.
The risk profile assessment was not signed  by him. This is a very serious point,  
especially as he believes the signature on the assessment is a forgery.  The 
moderate risk profile cannot therefore  be relied  upon. It is not the profile he agreed.
It is implausible that  in his unemployed state  he would have  invested  in a product  
that had the risk of capital loss.
It is unfair that Citibank can be selective  in disclosing telephone call recordings that 
support its position and in concealing  those that do not.
The risks in the SLN were not described to him as they ought to have been.  It was 
not enough to be told about the risks,  the probabilities of the harms  in those risks 
materialising was equally or more important. He was not informed of the latter. 
Through his experience with the SLN he now realises that it was riskier than he was 
led to believe it was, given that its five years  term was a long period, Gazprom  had 
geo political risks associated with it and oil and gas prices (relevant to Gazproms 
business) were volatile  at the time.
Citibank also maintained its core arguments.  In addition, it responded as follows:
It does not claim that Mr P signed  the profile assessment document. He did not have 
to sign it. The document was completed  upon  discussion  and agreement with him, 
and then sent to him; he was invited to check its contents and to raise  any concerns 
he had about  those contents or about the profiling outcome; and he did neither at the 
time.
Regardless of Mr Ps employment  status,  it remains the case that he had received a 
substantial amount of income in 2011 (whichever way it was earned/described).
Ref: DRN60846524It also remains the case  that Mr P wilfully chose not to describe his appetite for risk 
more cautiously,  despite having the option to do so, and that he chose  to proceed 
with the SLN despite being told it was not for a cautious investor and despite being  
warned about  its inherent risks.
In completing and signing the subscription  agreement for the SLN Mr P 
acknowledged receipt and understanding of its Term  Sheet, which  included  
information on its risks. Numerical probabilities  on its outcome could not have 
reasonably been  given  because  future  performance could not be predicted,  but the 
spectrum of possible scenarios (from the best to the worst) was set out for his 
information.
The adjudicator retained his revised  view and was not persuaded to change it. The matter 
was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators revised view and I conclude that Mr Ps complaint is not upheld.
A number  of important elements  related to the suitability (or otherwise) of an investment  
apply to Mr Ps case. They are  the question  of affordability (in terms of income and in 
terms of capacity for capital loss); the matters of an investors objective, attitude  to risk 
(ATR) and investment experience; evidence on whether (or not) the investors objective, 
ATR and experience were  properly  determined with and by the adviser;  the need for the 
investor to have been properly informed about  the investment (and its risks);  and then the 
question of whether  (or not) the advisers recommendation (as a whole and inclusive of any 
alternatives within the recommendation)  matched the investors overall profile.  I address 
these elements, in the context of Mr Ps case and under two main headings, below.
Affordability
I understand Mr Ps strength of feeling  about  what he views as a misrepresentation of his 
employment status at or around the time of advice. I can appreciate how he could view it a 
wrongdoing in itself to be told he was employed despite  his affirmation that he was not. 
I do not consider  it necessary to extend or determine the debate on this matter. Especially as 
it appears that a common ground could exist between the parties whereby, in 2012, Mr P 
could have made the same affirmation during the course of his dealings with Citibank  but 
wider information and documents (such as the tax document the adjudicator mentioned) 
gave Citibank the impression that there  was nevertheless a recent or ongoing alternative 
source of income.
In any case, it is the matter of affordability  that is key and it is usually within this context (and 
that of suitability)  that an investors employment status is considered.  In Mr Ps case,  the 
question of whether  (or not) he could afford the outlay of around  $130,000 for the SLN in 
2012 can be addressed by reference  to the following:
This outlay came  only from a redundancy payment  and there appears to have been  a 
remainder from the redundancy payment (an amount the equivalent of around 50,000 
Euros) after the investment.
Ref: DRN60846525There is evidence that he earned  separate and distinct income from his property 
investment(s)  this is mentioned in evidence he gave to this service. 
He had separate total invested  capital of over 1 million USD and enough cash  to 
have invested,  in the same year, in a previous structured note prior to the SLN.
Overall and on balance,  the above profile does not suggest that the SLN investment was 
unaffordable for Mr P. It does not appear to have affected his income or his pre-existing 
invested capital.  He had the overall financial capacity to dedicate  the redundancy payment to 
the SLN. I certainly do not suggest  that he wanted to lose his capital, that he did not care 
about losing  such  capital or that such loss would have been inconsequential for him, but I 
consider that the above financial profile  shows that he had the capacity to cope with such  
loss. On balance,  I am not persuaded that the SLN was unsuitable for Mr P in terms of 
affordability.
Objective, ATR,  Investment Experience and Information about  the SLN
On balance, I do not consider that the potential within  the SLN mismatched  Mr Ps objective.  
He wanted income  and growth at the outset. The potential coupon payments matched the 
income aspect of this objective. 
It cannot be ignored that, at best, the SLN provided a return of invested  capital   not capital  
with growth. However,  wider evidence shows that Mr P was aware of this  the terms he 
agreed in completing  and submitting his application for the SLN set this out. On balance, I 
find that between  the initial assessment in February 2012 and the investment in October 
2012 Mr P appears  to have compromised  the initial growth aspect of his objective and/or 
taken a view on growth  in the context of the potential returns  from the coupon  payments.
I do not accept Mr Ps arguments about  his ATR. As Citibank says, the assessment 
document that determined his moderate ATR was sent to him and he had enough time to 
object to its contents (and the profile) but there  is no available evidence that he did so. To 
the contrary, the telephone call recording evidence mentioned by the adjudicator  does 
indeed show  that he accepted and agreed with the moderate ATR  it was mentioned in the 
call, he agreed with it and did not object to it. Furthermore, the call features  explicit  contrasts 
made by Citibank between a conservative ATR and his moderate  ATR.
The nature of the SLN, as described above, was such that it combined some elements of a 
debt-based security  with elements of exposure  to equities and with the risk of loss of capital. 
It was rated as a moderate risk product. I do not propose to risk rate the SLN,  but it is 
enough to say that I do not consider it unsuitable  for the moderate  ATR that Mr P held and 
discussed  particularly in the context of him appearing to have an appetite  for the high end 
of risks within a moderate ATR.  
This is evident in the telephone recording  evidence.  As the adjudicator noted, Citibank 
suggested an alternative basket of investments that had less associated risks and was 
considered conservative  in this respect.  Citibank  presented both options as being  worthy of 
Mr Ps consideration but his questions, responses and decision in the conversation  depict 
his intention to take the riskier option because of the prospect of better returns.  He did this 
despite knowledge of the risks in the SLN. It is not unreasonable to conclude  that he was 
somewhat insistent on investing in the SLN despite  Citibank presenting him with the option  
of a cautious alternative.
Ref: DRN60846526Available fact find evidence  and the way Mr P presented himself  in the questions he asked 
and comments he made  during the telephone call  supports the conclusion that he had 
significant investment  experience in 2012.  He had over 1 million USD invested (in the assets 
summarised above)  and had made  a previous structured  note investment  prior to the SLN.
In terms of Mr P making an informed decision about the SLN,  there is ample evidence of 
documentation provided to him which detailed its characteristics and its risks (including 
details covering risks related to the product, the Gazprom  reference  item, liquidity and credit 
ratings). 
I agree  with Citibanks  point that advising on the probabilities of risks materialising is not as 
straightforward as Mr P has argued and that it would require a degree of performance  
prediction(s) which Citibank was not required to make in the context of giving an investor risk 
advice. Being informed  that the SLN carried the risks which  were  specified and explained 
was enough. That informed Mr P about  the potential negative outcomes of his investment  
to the extent of the total loss of capital and the possibility of not earning a coupon payment if 
the respective  barrier  level was not met. The different risk areas that were explained also 
informed him about the different elements that could cause such negative  outcomes.
Overall and on balance,  I am persuaded that:
Mr P had the financial capacity and ATR for the SLN.
The SLN matched his objective and he was properly informed about its 
characteristics and its risks.
Citibanks understanding of his investor profile  was broadly accurate and reasonable.
Citibank appears  to have presented its recommendation to Mr P, in 2012,  in a 
balanced manner.  He had the choice between investments with different  levels of 
risk, one cautious and one at the higher end of moderate, and he wilfully opted for 
the latter despite the associated risks. This does not support the notion that he 
sought a cautious investment but was recommended  a risky one instead.
Citibanks recommendation of the SLN was not properly documented and as the 
adjudicator suggested,  it should  have been properly  documented. However,  that is 
not the complaint. The complaint is that it made an unsuitable recommendation. 
Available wider evidence  which, helpfully has filled gaps otherwise created by the 
absence of documentation usually associated with a firms assessment of suitability 
and investment recommendation  does  not support the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6084652