K820x#14complaint
Ms As complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) that was sold alongside a flexi 
loan that was linked to a store  credit card taken  out with HFC Bank  Limited (HFC).
background
In 2017 Ms A complained  to HFC that she had been mis-sold PPI alongside a store card 
credit facility taken out in March 2000.  HFC said it could  trace  no PPI on the account and 
Ms A brought her complaint to this service.
HFC then agreed that PPI had been sold with a fixed term loan that was associated with the 
store credit card Ms A had taken out. And although the credit card had no PPI attached to it, 
the loan did. HFC agreed to uphold the complaint  that the PPI, associated with the loan, was 
mis-sold.
HFC made an offer of £253.65  (before tax) as compensation for the mis-sold PPI. This 
included a refund of all the premiums and interest paid for the PPI plus some compensatory 
interest for any time Ms A was out of pocket. 
Ms A wasnt happy with this as she said the compensatory interest wasnt  for the correct  
period. She also thought she should  be compensated for the way HFC had handled her 
complaint and for the stress and inconvenience  the sale and paying  for the PPI had caused 
her.
HFC later offered £50.00  as a goodwill payment for any additional costs  Ms A incurred  due 
to it not returning  some  original documents.
Our adjudicator said what HFC had now done  was fair. Ms A didnt agree with that and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms A brought her complaint to this service at first HFC said it couldnt find any PPI on 
the credit  card account. However after our involvement HFC confirmed a loan,  which was 
linked to the credit card,  did have PPI associated with it and agreed  to settle the complaint 
and pay compensation. 
As HFC has now agreed to settle  this complaint  that the PPI with the loan was mis-sold I am 
not looking at how the PPI came  to be sold. In this decision I am looking at if the 
compensation offered by HFC is fair to put Ms A as far as possible in the position she 
wouldve been in if she hadnt taken out the PPI. 
To work out fair compensation  I would expect HFC to refund all the premiums  and any 
interest caused by those  premiums. In addition for any time Ms A was out of pocket for 
paying the premiums  I would expect HFC to pay compensatory interest at 8% simple each 
year.
Ref: DRN66426722The loan Ms A took out in April 2000  was interest free for 12 months and no PPI was 
charged until Ms A started to make  her monthly repayments in April 2001. HFC have very 
limited records  about  the account which is understandable as it was almost  20 years ago the 
account was opened. It does however have some basic records  about the PPI which  show 
the PPI policy  cost £12.13 each month and a total of £109.17  was paid for PPI.
HFC doesnt  have information showing  the date when the PPI ended but the total amount 
paid for the PPI of £109.17  indicates  that it was paid for 9 months. This must have been 
when the loan was cleared, as the PPI was only paid when there was a balance owing on 
the loan. So the repayments after the interest free period were to start in April 2001 so the 
loan must  have ended in December 2001. And Ms A made  9 payments of £12.13 for the 
PPI. 
HFC says the PPI was charged separately to the loan repayments, it wasnt  added to the 
loan account,  so no interest  was incurred on the PPI costs. 
So to put Ms A in the position she wouldve been in if she hadnt taken out the PPI I would 
expect HFC to repay to Ms A everything  she paid for the PPI, that is £109.17,  plus 
compensatory interest.  This is at 8% per year from the date any payment was made to the 
date of settlement.  HFC has worked  this out as £144.48 before tax. (HFC is required to 
deduct basic rate income tax by HM Revenue and Customs). 
So in total the compensation offered to Ms A was £224.75 after tax. I think this was fair to 
compensate Ms A for the mis-sale of the PPI.
During the course of this complaint Ms A has referred to a number of issues  she had with 
HFC including poor service. She expressed concerns about  some original documents not 
being returned as requested. But she also wants compensation  for the extra stress she had 
because her loan was passed  to debt collectors when she was unable to make the 
repayments and she says HFC did not take account of her personal circumstances. Ms A 
also says she was unhappy that she was unable to make a claim on the policy  in 2002 when 
she was unemployed.
When looking at any additional payment  for trouble and upset I can only consider what may 
have been caused directly  by the PPI payments.  Although I understand Ms A was in a very 
difficult situation in 2001/2002  it wasnt the PPI that caused her to be unable  to make  the 
loan repayments.  So her concerns about  how HFC may have treated her at this time by 
referring her loan debt to debt collectors are not something I can consider in this decision 
about mis-sold PPI. The points raised were not directly caused  by the mis-sold PPI.
Again if Ms A is unhappy a claim was refused she could consider asking to make  a 
retrospective claim. But this would be totally separate to the PPI mis-sale complaint. I would 
however say that the PPI appears to have ended in December 2001  and Ms A says she 
called to try to make a claim in 2002.  So it is quite  possible the PPI was no longer active  and 
if she had fully repaid  her loan she would not be able to make a claim as the PPI was only to 
cover the loan repayments. 
Overall I think  that what HFC has offered in compensation to Ms A for the mis-sold PPI with 
this loan is fair and Im not telling it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN66426723my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I think what HFC Bank Limited  has offered to settle 
Ms As complaint about mis-sold PPI is fair and Im not telling it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6642672