K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about how Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited went about  charging
him for repairs to its car at the end of their contract.
background
In April 2014 Mr C entered into a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS for a new car. As part
of the contract  Mr C had agreed to pay VWFS  for any damage to its car, that he had caused,
that went beyond  fair wear and tear. But equally,  he was meant to get an opportunity  to put 
any such damage right before it took back its car. In particular, according  to Mr C, VWFS  
agreed it would send him an inspection report setting  out the damage it wanted to
charge him for. It would  then give him a chance  to sort this damage  out before taking back
its car.
When the contract ended  VWFS sent an independent expert around to assess  the car. This
had been agreed in advance with Mr C. But Mr C told us although a report was done  by the
expert, he didnt receive a copy of it. Instead  VWFS  just took the car back and said nothing
to him. As a result, he had no idea that he was going to be charged for repairs until he
received an invoice, out of the blue,  from VWFS.
There was then some back and forth between him and VWFS  after he received the invoice.
During the course of this it sent him two different inspection  reports.  In summary, Mr C
thought he hadnt been allowed  a fair chance  to put the damage  right.  Further, from his 
perspective, he had then been given the run-around by VWFS  while he was trying to work 
out what was going  on. On that basis, he suggested  VWFS hadnt  stuck by both the letter  
and spirit  of their agreement. Therefore, he should  not have to pay for the repairs.
VWFS saw the matter  very differently. It said Mr C was obliged to pay for the repairs  under
the terms of their agreement. It said it had sent Mr C copies of the inspection reports that it
was relying on. On reflection, it concluded that one of the repairs  it wanted  to charge him for
was caused by wear  and tear. So, it waived  that charge. But as to the rest of the charges, it
thought those should stand. It said that when Mr C left his car at the dealership so it could be 
inspected, he had thereby appointed  the dealership as his agent.  VWFS  suggested the 
dealership was given a copy of the first report.  Its position was, VWFS could not be held 
responsible if the agent didnt then pass the report on to Mr C. It also suggested if Mr C 
remained unhappy he might think about  complaining to the dealership and the expert directly 
about their roles.
Dissatisfied with this response Mr C came to our service.
I took a look at Mr Cs complaint in a provisional  decision. I thought the crux of Mr Cs 
complaint was that hed been  promised an opportunity  to repair  the car, but VWFS hadnt 
given it to him. From his perspective, VWFS had taken  advantage of the fact that he didnt 
know how the process was going to play out. For example, he hadnt  known  that the car 
would be taken away more or less immediately  after the inspection. Rather he thought  he 
would be contacted by VWFS  told about the damage and then hed have  the choice to either 
get the work  done or leave that to VWFS. Moreover, he suggested he hadnt appointed the 
dealership as his agent. VWFS had no reason to think that he had. Further,  he had not 
known that this was what  VWFS  had thought. He didnt agree  that the report  had been  left 
with dealership, it never mentioned it, indeed  it had said it had even seen the expert.
Ref: DRN62664522I took a look at what the parties had said to each other about  the inspection  and what  would 
happen next. I thought  the letter that VWFS sent to Mr C in particular was very significant.  I 
highlighted this part of the letter.
"We will have  your vehicle  inspected by an independent third party to assess  any damage
above fair wear  and tear and you will be provided with a copy  of the inspection report.
Should you choose to have  the remedial work carried  out by an approved repairer, this
should be done prior to the collection of your vehicle."
I said, this wording seemed clear,  VWFS would tell Mr C via a report what  was wrong with 
the car. It would then give him a fair chance to put things right. If he exercised this option, it 
would only collect the car after the remedial work  was done. Having made  this promise, I 
thought VWFS ought to have stuck to it. But that is not what  happened.
Instead, as both parties seemed to agree, the car was inspected, a report was done, it was 
not given to Mr C. The following  day the car was collected by VWFS  after that it charged him 
for the repairs that he hadnt known about until he received VWFSs request for payment.
I was satisfied that in the circumstances, it wasnt fair and reasonable for VWFS to decide, 
by itself that the dealership was Mr Cs agent. Neither did I find it likely in the circumstances. 
That the report had been left with the dealership, given it mentioned nothing about it. In any 
event, I didnt think even  if the report had been  left with the dealership this went far enough  
given VWFS had no proper basis for suggesting  Mr C appointed the dealership as his agent.  
I thought it likely this caused Mr C distress and inconvenience.
Further, I was persuaded that VWFS didnt send  the second report  to Mr C until he asked for 
it. Prior to this the parties  appeared  to be talking at cross purposes with VWFS seeming to 
rely and talk about the second  report,  at time when Mr C didnt  know  that a second report  
existed still less that was what VWFS  was talking about. I was satisfied  this also caused  
Mr C distress and inconvenience.
That said,  it found it was not clear if Mr C experienced any financial loss because  he wasnt 
able to get the repairs done himself. Nothing I saw suggested that he could have got the 
repairs done more  cheaply or that the charges VWFS wanted to apply  for the work  were 
disproportionate. 
But I did agree  that VWFS  did not follow its own process and that was not fair and 
reasonable. Further it then caused  Mr C distress  and inconvenience as a result.  Moreover, I 
thought that VWFS ought not to have suggested Mr C complain to third parties about things 
he thought it had done wrong. I didnt think this was appropriate.  I found it fair and 
reasonable VWFS ought to compensate Mr C for all of this and I thought  £200 was an
appropriate amount.
I invited both Mr C and VWFS to respond  to my provisional decision. They both did. Mr C 
responded to say he accepted it. VWFS  rejected it. In short, VWFS  suggested by his 
actions, that is by leaving the car with the dealership while  it was being inspected Mr C had 
nominated the dealership to be his agent.  
Further, it indicated that Mr C ought  to shoulder some responsibility  for not knowing about 
the report and the repairs.  In that he should  have  contacted VWFS after the inspection to 
check that all was well. It pointed out Mr C could always have cancelled the collection of the 
car. 
Ref: DRN62664523Moreover, VWFS told us it had sent Mr C enough  information before the car was returned for 
him to know  that the damage to the car was going  to result in him being charged to put it 
right. 
VWFS concluded Mr C had, in its opinion had a fair chance to do the repairs himself. It didnt 
agree that it should have to pay Mr C £200.
my findings
I thank Mr C and VWFS for their responses to my provisional decision.  Ive considered 
again, all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
VWFS tells us that Mr C appointed the dealership as his agent by his actions. It seems to 
also suggest, by extension, that this de facto appointment happened,  whether Mr C realised 
this or not and whether  or not this is what he intended. I cant  see what it bases this 
suggestion on. Mr C indicates he dropped the car off at the dealership just because this was 
a convenient location for both parties. He was incredulous when  he found out afterwards that 
VWFS had concluded that there  was an agency relationship in place. From the information  I 
have seen at no time before the inspection did VWFS tell Mr C that is how it saw it. 
In any event, I find it unlikely that the expert  left a copy of the first report  with the dealership. 
Ive seen the contact  that Mr C had with the dealership after the inspection.  I have  no reason 
to doubt the accuracy of what I have seen.  The dealership does not mention  the report, 
which I think it would most  likely  have  done,  if the report was left with it and it was acting as 
Mr Cs agent.
For all of these reasons, Im not persuaded by what VWFS has said about this point. In 
particular I dont agree Mr C was on notice from the time when the first report  was done  at 
the dealership.
VWFS is an expert when it comes  to finance agreements and how they work.  Mr C is not. It 
might have been prudent, with hindsight,  for Mr C to have checked with VWFS after the 
inspection. However,  given what it had promised I think the onus  was more on VWFS  to let 
Mr C know about the report, and as I say above I dont  think  that it did. As a result,  I find that 
Mr C did not get the fair chance to put things right that he was entitled to expect.
Mr C isnt saying that he did not receive information  from VWFS before the agreement 
ended about the state in which he would have to return the car. So, while  VWFS may well 
have sent Mr C information about the standards it would be applying  in deciding  whether or 
not the car needed repairs, thats  not the point.
In any event the information VWFS  sent Mr C led him to think that hed get a chance to sort 
the car out after the inspection. I think that was a fair inference  for Mr C to draw. So, I dont 
think its fair to say just because he could have got the repairs sorted before the inspection, 
he then lost the option to take up VWFSs offer to get the repairs done after the inspection.
Ref: DRN62664524Ive not been persuaded by VWFSs  response  to my provisional decision. It follows that I 
have reached the same  conclusions as I did in my provisional decision for the same 
reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must pay Mr C
£200 for distress  and inconvenience.
VWFS must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it Mr C 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest  on the £200 from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at the rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6266452