K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Nationwide Building Society handled his claim under Section
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  in relation  to a kitchen.
background 
In 2018, Mr B paid for the design, supply and installation for a new kitchen from a business I
will call Supplier  K. Mr B says he paid £5,000 of the contract price, which appeared to be
around £12,000, on his Nationwide credit  card and £4,000  on another  credit  card.
Mr B told us he was having an extension built to his existing kitchen at the same time the
design was carried  out by Supplier  K. Mr B says at some point after paying the deposit, he
was told by Supplier K that the fitters wouldnt be available within a reasonable timeframe for
Mr B. So Mr B instructed  his own builders (who were  in the process  of building  the
extension) to install the kitchen.
Mr B says the following things are an issue:
The kitchen units should have arrived pre-assembled, however, they didnt. Mr B 
says his builders had to put these together which incurred  additional costs.
Poor initial measurements  meant there was a gap to the side of the fridge of around 
175mm. Mr B agreed to have a wine rack fitted  in this gap and paid for this, but he 
says he shouldnt have had to pay for this.
Some of the kitchen units had faults  - some of the screw holes were in the wrong 
place.
Some of the cabinets  werent properly sized to house the equipment that was to go in 
them. This resulted  in further work being  carried out by the builders that Mr B says 
was unnecessary. Mr B says correcting these faults  and having the units assembled 
has cost around £2,000.
A splashback wasnt provided  so Mr B says he bought one for around £240.
The cooker hood wasnt correctly installed - the rolled steel  joist (RSJ)  wasnt  taken 
into consideration which meant the cooker hood  wasnt installed above head  height 
and Mr B often hits his head  against this. 
As a result  of the cooker  hood not being correctly installed,  Mr B says the extractor 
fan doesnt extract the air and instead  just recycles it which means new filters have to 
be fitted into the fan each month. To replace the extraction system will be costly  for 
Mr B.
Mr B is also unhappy that the lifetime guarantee provided for the kitchen is no longer  
valid due to Supplier K no longer existing.
Mr B made a claim about the quality  and the design  of the kitchen to Nationwide  under
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  and also to his other credit  card provider - who
he paid £4,000 of the total cost to. Mr Bs other credit card provider refunded  him the £4,000
he paid. And Mr B also wants Nationwide to refund  him the £5,000  he paid on his credit card
- he says the refund he received from his other credit card company has only covered his
financial loss and doesnt compensate him for the inconvenience this situation has caused
him.
In addition to a refund of the £5,000,  Mr B has asked  for a refund of the wine rack and the
splashback. Mr B also says correcting the faults  with the units not being fit for purpose would 
cost around £2,000 and has asked for Nationwide to compensate him this amount.
Ref: DRN60271152Nationwide partially  upheld Mr Bs complaint. In summary, they said:
The design quotation provided to Mr B didnt make reference to whether the items 
would be pre-assembled or not. But that it was common the units  would arrive in flat 
pack form.
As Mr B was having  building work  completed  at the same time it was unclear  as to 
whether the issues  relating to the RSJ were known at the design stage.
The quotation Mr B received  for the kitchen didnt reference wine racks and that this 
was discussed  after the kitchen was designed and installed.
Nationwide said the statement Mr B provided from his builders in relation to the assembly  of
the kitchen units  didnt evidence a breach of contract - they said the contract  Mr B signed
didnt say this was a condition and the builders only confirmed they expected the units to be
delivered pre-assembled.
Nationwide offered Mr B £200 for the missing splashback. They said although this was less
than the splashback Mr B bought, this was the cost of this item on Mr Bs original  contract.
Mr B remained unhappy  so he brought his complaint to our service. Ultimately,  our 
investigator said she thought there had been  a breach of contract.  She said the kitchen was
poorly designed because the RSJ wasnt taken  into consideration, which  meant the cooker
hood wasnt installed above head  height  - despite  the designer  making  several site visits.
She said Mr B has incurred a consequential loss because of the breach of contract and that
he now has ongoing inconvenience with the cooker  hood. So the investigator recommended
Nationwide pay 10% of the overall  cost of the kitchen.
Mr B agreed with this. But Nationwide  didnt. They said Mr B had already received  a refund
of a third of the kitchen cost from his other credit card provider. And if they agreed  to refund
Mr B 10% of the overall cost of the kitchen,  this would mean Mr B would have received a
total refund  of around 43% of the overall cost of the kitchen. Nationwide  said they felt this
was disproportionate  given Mr Bs financial loss had been covered (by the refund he
received from the other credit card provider) and although the cooker hood may not have
been fitted properly, it was still functioning. So the complaint  has been passed to me.
Since our investigator issued her view, Nationwide have since  confirmed that they are willing
to refund Mr B the cost he paid for the wine racks  which was £223.99 as the supplier hadnt
done this.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
I have to decide what, if anything. Nationwide should do to resolve Mr Bs complaint. To do
that, I have  to decide what  I think is fair and reasonable, having  regard  to (amongst other
things) any relevant  law. In this case, relevant law includes  section 75 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Section 75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the credit card account  holder has
an equal right to claim against  the credit card provider if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or services. So in Mr Bs case, section  75 of the
CCA makes Nationwide responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier under certain conditions. One of those conditions is that there must be a direct
relationship between the debtor (Mr B) the creditor (Nationwide) and the supplier (Supplier
Ref: DRN60271153K). Im satisfied  that the necessary  relationship  exists and that Mr Bs claim is within  the
financial limits  set out in the CCA.
Its clear Mr B has experienced a number of issues  with the kitchen and hes made a lot of
representations in his complaint in relation to these.  Ive dealt with what  Ive considered to be
the most  significant  issues  which are as follows:
Pre-assembled kitchen  units
Mr B says the kitchen  units  should  have arrived pre-assembled.  Because  they didnt, Mr B
had to ask his own builders to assemble  them which incurred additional costs for Mr B. I note
Mr B chose to appoint his builders to fit the kitchen  as he says the timeframes provided by
Supplier K werent reasonable to him - they said the fitters  would be available  in around two
weeks time.
Mr B has provided us with a copy of an email he sent to Supplier K a few days  after the units
were delivered. In this he mentioned that the pre-assembled units  were supposed to be
delivered on an agreed date. However, as there was some confusion about  the delivery date
with Supplier Ks contractors, Mr B had agreed  for the units to be delivered in flat pack  form.
Mr B says this was so his builders werent kept waiting for the pre-assembled  units to be
delivered and so they could get the work  done.
Mr Bs testimony about the units arriving pre-assembled has been consistent throughout his
dealings with Supplier K, Nationwide and also to our service. And I think  this supports  the
fact that there appears to have  been  an agreement with Supplier K and Mr B that the units
would come pre-assembled. And because there was an error with the delivery date,  its
clear that Mr B had to agree for these to come in flat pack form in order to have them
delivered quicker. I also think if it wasnt arranged for the units  to arrive pre-assembled, its
more likely than not Mr B wouldve asked his builders to include  assembling the units  as part
of their quote. However, having looked at the quote,  I cant  see there  was a cost included  for
assembling the units - there was only a cost for fitting the kitchen. So I think  there has been
a breach of contract here.
I note Mr Bs builders have said some of units had holes drilled in the wrong  places. And
also that some of the units for housing appliances  and equipment were the wrong size and
they had to be modified in order to fit the appliances.  Ive thought  about  the breach and if
Nationwide need  to do anything to put things right. However, Im mindful of the fact that Mr B
has received £4,000  from his other  credit  card provider - which  I think is a significant sum
which adequately  compensates  Mr B. So I wont be asking  Nationwide  to do anything more.
Wine rack
Mr B says that poor initial  measurements of the kitchen meant there was a gap to the side of
the fridge. Mr B was unhappy  with this as he said he didnt think this looked very visually
appealing. Supplier  K offered to put a wine rack in this space, which Mr B agreed to and paid
for.
Nationwide say the kitchen design  plan which was accepted by Mr B, shows  the gap to the
side of the fridge would be filled with a plinth, and not a wine rack.  It was after the plinth was
fitted that Mr B sought to alter the design. So Nationwide didnt think there  was a breach as
fitting a wine rack wasnt part of the original plan.
Ref: DRN60271154Mr Bs design contract doesnt include a wine rack and the fitting of this. Ive had a look at
the design plan and can see that it says Tall filler (plinth)  in the space next to the fridge.
Mr B said he thought filling that space with a plinth wouldnt look good so he says the wine
racks were necessary and should have  been a part of the price he paid.
Im not persuaded theres been a breach here as the plans show  the gap by the fridge would
be filled with a plinth.  But even if I accept that once the kitchen was assembled that it wasnt
of the standard a reasonable person would expect. Im satisfied  Nationwides  offer to refund
the £223.99 Mr B paid for the wine racks  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Splashback not provided
Mr B says Supplier  K failed to supply the splashback. Nationwide responded to this point
and agreed Supplier  K failed to supply the splashback  which  cost £200 (as noted on the
design contract). So they offered Mr B a refund of £200 to remedy  this breach.  Mr B didnt
agree with this as he said this was less than the £242 he would likely pay based  on quotes
hes retrieved.
I can see a splashback was included on the design contract and both parties  agree Mr B
wasnt supplied with this. So I think there  has been a breach of contract in relation to this
point. But I think the offer of £200 Nationwide made is fair and reasonable. I say this
because this is the amount Mr B agreed  to pay for a splashback in the design contract. So I
think its fair he receives a refund of the amount he originally paid.
Issues with the cooker hood
Mr B says when the designer came to his house,  they didnt take into account the RSJ in the
kitchen - Mr B say this was the first thing the builders put in place in the kitchen. Mr B says
whilst he accepted the design  plan which didnt show the RSJ in place, that he isnt an
expert in this area, so he didnt realise  the relevance  of it not being on the plan. Mr B also
says Supplier K made several site visits before the kitchen furniture was ordered  so an RSJ
in place shouldve  been noticed. Mr B says they shouldve  been aware of potential problems 
with the cooker  hood not being fitted correctly.  As a result of this, Mr B says the cooker  hood
is lower than he expected and that it also doesnt extract  the air and instead recycles  it. Mr B
says that because of this, he has to replace the extractor filter each month and has to
consider fitting  an alternative extraction system  to resolve this issue.
Supplier K say Mr B asked for the extractor to be made central  to the RSJ and that they
werent asked to create a symmetry with the RSJ beam in a room. So this wasnt  considered
as part of the design plans that Mr B agreed to.
Ive looked at a copy  of the design  plan that was provided to me and I cant see this plan
includes the RSJ. As Supplier K are no longer  in existence. Im not able to ask them what
was discussed  about the RSJ at the time. So, its hard to know  exactly what was agreed with
Supplier K. But even  though Mr B accepted the design plans, I think Supplier K couldve
carried out the design with more reasonable care and skill. I say this because I think  they
couldve factored in the RSJ in the design plan - they couldve considered that the cooker
hood wouldnt be in the centre due to the RSJ and that it wouldnt be possible to install an
extractor fan for the cooker hood  for the same  reason. So its for these reasons I think
Supplier K couldve taken  more reasonable care, especially if several visits were made to Mr
Bs home as Mr B says.
Ref: DRN60271155Ive considered all of the issues Mr B experienced. Whilst  Im not persuaded there has been
a breach of contract for every issue, I do think there could have been more  reasonable care
and skill when carrying out the design and supply of the kitchen. I say this because there
was one item that wasnt delivered to Mr B and some ongoing issues with the cooker  hood
air being recycled rather than it being extracted. Mr B says hell need to consider putting  an
extraction system into the kitchen to resolve  this issue.
Ive also thought about the lifetime guarantee that Supplier  K provided to Mr B in the
contract. This was to cover against  faulty manufacturing of the goods and faulty
workmanship. As Mr B no longer has use of the guarantee  due to Supplier K no longer
existing, I think there  has been a breach  of contract  here as well.
In any event, when  considering whether Mr B should  receive any redress for the things Ive
considered to be a breach of contract.  Ive looked at the overall contract  price.  Ive also
taken into account  the £4,000 refund Mr B has received  from his other credit card company.
And Im satisfied Mr B has received  fair redress in the £4,000  refund hes received from his
other credit card company - which  is a third of the overall cost of the kitchen. I say this
because Mr B has provided us with a letter from his builders which  explains that for 10 days
worth of work, theyd  charge around £1,800 for the labour. The amount Mr B has received
from his other credit  card company is more  than double what  the labour costs were.  So,
even if I accept there are issues  with the cooker hood and the fact that Mr B no longer has
use of the lifetime warranty, I think Mr B has already received fair compensation for these
breaches.
Nationwide have already made an offer to refund Mr B £200  for the missing splashback
along with a refund of £223.99 for the wine racks.  For the reasons Ive explained above,
I think these offers are fair in all the circumstances of the complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it. Mr B accepted my 
provisional decision but wanted  to clarify  the following:
Mr B hasnt  yet bought a splashback as mentioned  in my provisional decision and 
instead, received  a quote of £240  for one. 
My provisional decision said Mr B has to replace the cooker hood filters every  month.  
However, Mr B said they arent changed  as frequently as every  month  and that 
theyre replaced every few months.
A plinth  was never fitted in the gap beside the fridge as the gap was too wide to 
simply have a filler in place.
Nationwide didnt  offer Mr B £223.99  for the wine rack and that they only offered to 
pay him £200 which was in relation  to the splashback.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have accepted my findings, so I see no reason  to department  from the outcome 
I reached in my provision  decision. 
Ref: DRN60271156Mr B has, however, highlighted some inaccuracies he says I made in my provisional 
decision. Ive addressed  each of his points below:
I accept Mr Bs correction that he hasnt  yet bought a splashback and instead  
received a quote for one. 
And I also acknowledge Mr Bs clarification on the frequency of replacing the 
cooker hood filters.
Mr B has clarified the plinth was never  fitted  in the gap beside  the fridge. Again, I 
accept this correction.
In relation to the offer made  by Nationwide for the wine rack, I explained in my 
provisional decision that since our investigator issued her view,  Nationwide  told 
us that they were  willing to refund Mr B the cost of the wine rack which  was 
£223.99. This offer was made after the investigator had issued her view so I 
wouldnt have expected Mr B to have known about it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Nationwide Building Society  to pay Mr B a total of £423.99 
plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from date of payment to date of settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2020.
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman
*If Nationwide  Building Society think that theyre  required by HM Revenue & Customs  to
deduct income tax from that interest,  they should tell Mr B how much  theyve taken off. They
should also give Mr B a tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6027115