K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed  to record a deposit  of £500 into his current  
account.
background
Mr V has a current  account with Lloyds.  Two branch visits he made in February  2018  are 
relevant to this complaint, although  he is only complaining about  the second  one. In the first 
visit he says he brought  £900 in old denomination £10 notes to the branch, made a deposit 
of £400, and exchanged  £500 in old notes  to new ones, which he took away  with him.
In the second  visit, Mr V says he took £1,000 in old £10 notes into the branch. He says he 
made a deposit  of £500 into his account, and exchanged the other £500 into new notes to 
take away. But when  he checked his bank  statement about three weeks  later, he saw that 
the £500 deposit was not there. Instead,  his statement just showed a deposit of £500  and a 
withdrawal of £500 on the same day. (A cash exchange is recorded as a deposit and a 
withdrawal of the same amount.) So Mr V asked Lloyds where his money had gone.
Lloyds did not accept that Mr V had brought £1,000 into the branch. It said it had no record  
of him making a deposit on that day (other than the £500 which he exchanged). It had 
checked the cash balance for the branch and there was no surplus. The tills had all balanced  
and no errors had been reported. So it did not agree that £500 had gone missing. It also 
added that on the day of the earlier branch visit, there was no record of Mr V having brought  
£900 with him. He had deposited £400, but there was no evidence  that he had also 
exchanged another £500. Again, there had been the expected  amount of cash  in the branch 
at the end of the day, with no surplus  and no reported errors. Lloyds told him it had viewed 
the CCTV footage  for the second visit, but it had been too unclear to be useful.
Mr V brought this complaint to our Service. He insisted that he had brought £900 and £1,000 
with him on each visit, and to prove  it he provided  envelopes with the cash  amounts written 
on them  in his handwriting. He criticised  Lloyds for not recording the transactions in each  
branch visit in a consistent manner  he said that the first visit should have been recorded as 
a deposit of £900 and a withdrawal of £500, and the second visit should have been recorded  
as a deposit of £1,000 and a withdrawal of £500.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint, for the same reasons as the bank. Mr V did 
not accept that opinion,  because the adjudicator had not watched the CCTV footage (as he 
had not thought it would show  anything). Mr V asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Although Lloyds had told us that the CCTV footage  is unclear and shows  nothing helpful,  
I recognise why Mr V still wanted  us to check it ourselves, so I asked Lloyds to send it to us. 
However, Lloyds was unable to do so, because it had only retained  the CCTV for 31 days. 
After that the digital footage had been  automatically  recorded over. Lloyds  provided  
evidence to prove that this is its standard procedure, so Im satisfied  that the CCTV is no 
longer available to view.  (The CCTV footage  was deleted in March,  and Mr V brought this 
Ref: DRN62382712complaint to our Service in late April, so the footage  had already been  recorded over before 
our adjudicators involvement in this case.)
I do not think that Mr Vs envelopes carry any weight as evidence. They are just envelopes  
on which he has written some  numbers. They could have been produced at any time.
If Mr V had deposited £1,000 and withdrawn £500, and the other  £500  was not applied to his 
account, then I would expect the branch to have found a cash  surplus of £500 when they 
checked the tills at the end of the day. But they did not. I have seen the branchs records of 
cash errors for the period  of February to April 2018,  and there are no entries for the dates  of 
either of Mr Vs branch visits. I have seen  the till journal for the second visit, and there is no 
record of a transaction for £1,000, only the £500 in and the £500 out. (That evidence  was 
provided to us in May. The till journal for the first visit was no longer available by the time it 
was requested in August, since it had not been alleged that any money had gone missing  in 
that visit.)
There is therefore no evidence  except what Mr V has told us  that he ever deposited  £500  
in his account in addition  to the £500 he exchanged.  If what Mr V had told us was the only 
evidence we had, then I could still have upheld his complaint in the absence  of any evidence 
to contradict it. But the evidence provided  by the bank clearly  contradicts his description of 
events, and was created  at the relevant time and by more than one person at the branch. So 
on the balance  of probabilities, I think it is more likely that Mr V took only £400  to the branch 
on his first visit, and only £500  on the second visit, and that since then he has 
misremembered what  happened  and recalled two deposits and two cash  exchanges. This 
accounts for the apparent  inconsistency in his bank statement.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6238271