K820x#14Complaint
Ms W complains, in summary, that Link Financial  Outsourcing  Limited,  trading as Thesis 
Servicing, did not tell her about changes to the income threshold  for deferring her student  
loan repayments.   As a result,  Ms W made  repayments for around four years when  
because her income was below the relevant threshold  its likely she would otherwise have 
been able to defer repaying her loans.
Background
Ms W took out several  student loans in the 1990s.  For the subsequent 15 years she was 
able to defer repaying them  because her income was below  the relevant threshold.   
In late 2014 Ms W started a new job, on an annual salary of £28,000.  Thesis wrote to her in 
March 2015 to say that she could continue to defer her repayments  if her monthly income  
was below £2,227.  But because, by then, Ms Ws monthly income exceeded that figure  by 
around £100 she started to repay  them.  However, in late 2018 Ms W discovered that  as 
from 1 September  2015  the income threshold had been increased  to more than her then 
salary, and this had continued  for a few more years.  In other words, whilst  Ms W received 
salary increases over those years the student loan income threshold also rose, and it 
continued to be higher  than her salary.
Ms W complained to Thesis  saying, in summary, that it had not told her about  the increases 
in the income  threshold  and that, as a result, she had made  repayments  when she need 
not have done.  But Thesis took the view that it had not acted incorrectly.   It said it was for 
Ms W to have  checked the income  threshold  herself  and to have  applied  for deferment if she 
considered it appropriate  to do so.  
Our investigator took a similar view.   She  also felt that Thesiss offer of £50 in shopping 
vouchers for its delay  in dealing with Ms Ws most recent deferral was fair compensation for 
the inconvenience she had experienced (that is, in having payments taken from her account 
which were then refunded).  But Ms W did not accept either outcome, and she asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed.  In doing  so she said, in summary:
Prior to 2014 she knew that her income  was below the relevant threshold so she asked 
for deferment paperwork each year.
Thesis should have told her about  the ongoing annual  changes to the income thresholds 
for deferment, especially after the March  2015  correspondence.  She  understood from 
other correspondence that that was what Thesis  would  do.  
Annual statements  or other correspondence  from Thesis  didnt outline what  you need to 
do once youve started repaying.  Its not right or fair that the onus should be on the 
borrower to look into this each year. 
Shes unhappy that she made  repayments  when she didnt need to, and she didnt think 
that £50 in vouchers for the more recent event was a great result .
Ms W also questioned the independence of this service, suggesting that  having been set 
up by Parliament  she would  not get a fair hearing.  She  added  that the Student Loans 
Company (SLC) track peoples information by their national insurance number so why dont 
they automatically send  the deferment paperwork out? and that, because  the SLC is 
struggling so much it might deliberately not provide  information  about changes in income  
thresholds. 
Ref: DRN69291312My findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
I make  a couple of preliminary observations.  Firstly,  this service was indeed  set up by 
Parliament  under the relevant provisions  of the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000  
to consider and determine complaints made  by consumers about regulated financial 
businesses.  The legislation provides for us to do so independently and impartially  in fact, it 
requires us to do so  on the basis of what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
individual complaint.  Perhaps somewhat inevitably, this means that at least one party  to 
every complaint we look into risks being disappointed by the outcome.  But that is not the 
same as saying that the losing party does  not get a fair hearing.  In  Ms Ws case  I am 
satisfied that the investigator looked into her complaint properly and came to what she 
considered to be a fair and reasonable conclusion in light of the available evidence.
Secondly, this complaint is about Thesis  not the SLC.  So  I am unable to comment here on 
anything relating to what  they may or may not do  although I accept that they play a central 
role in the deferment process.
The principal  issue in this complaint is whether Thesis was under a duty or obligation to have 
given Ms W more information about the deferment income thresholds and/or process such 
that she might otherwise  have made  successful deferment applications after 2015.  
By way of background, its relevant to bear in mind  that Thesis  simply manages loan 
accounts  whereas the SLC, as a separate entity, is responsible for the administration of 
the deferment process.  Loans are contractually  repayable unless the borrower  successfully 
applies to have them deferred.  Deferment thresholds are set annually by the Government,  
and it is for the borrower to apply to have their loan repayments  deferred if they consider  it 
appropriate to do so.  In addition, I understand  that if a borrower is already deferring 
repayments on a loan the SLC will get in touch a couple of months before the deferment  is 
due to end, but it will not do so if the loan repayments are not currently being deferred  the 
onus then being on the borrower to initiate the process.
Thesis publishes deferment income  thresholds on its website, which are updated annually.  
I accept that Thesis does  not provide the additional information to borrowers personally 
which Ms W considers it should,  but I do not agree that it is under any duty or obligation  to 
do so.  Instead, I consider  it is more for a borrower to look into and assess  for themselves, 
each year, whether or not it would be appropriate  for them  to make a deferral application. 
I believe this is particularly so where  a borrowers  income is close to the relevant monthly 
threshold.
It follows from this, therefore, that I have  come to the same overall conclusion  as the 
investigator did.  I am unable to see that it would be correct for me to uphold  Ms Ws 
complaint relating to the period when she did not apply to defer her loans.
I do nevertheless agree  that Ms W experienced some inconvenience arising from the delay 
in her being sent the more  recent deferral application form.  That led to money  being  taken  
from her account when it wouldnt otherwise have been.  However,  that money was refunded 
a few days later, once  the application had been  processed, and there  was no impact  on loan 
interest.  I consider that Thesiss offer of £50 in shopping vouchers was fair compensation 
for that.
  
Ref: DRN69291313My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I do not uphold the principal focus  of this complaint.  I am 
further satisfied  that the compensation Thesis has paid by way of £50 in shopping vouchers 
fairly reflects the inconvenience Ms W experienced in respect  of the most  recent  deferral.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W either  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6929131