K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading  as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) were wrong 
to default her account when theyd told her they werent going  to do so.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 8 August 2019. Ive attached a copy  to this 
decision. It set out my provisional conclusions which both Miss T and Barclaycard have 
accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision.
I understand Miss T has made  significant payments off the balance.  Barclaycard told us her 
account was closed in November 2018 in line with the banks procedures following an 
income and expenditure assessment showing no disposable income. I dont think  thats 
unreasonable as it doesnt prevent Miss T from making payments and Barclaycard  say she 
will continue to receive statements until the balance is settled.
Barclaycard have told us will take the following action
 Arrange for the account to be recalled from the debt collection agency and asked 
them to remove their default, this may take up to 4 weeks;
 Arrange for the default to be removed from Barclaycard records,  this may take up to 
4 weeks;
 Reinstate  monthly paper statements for Miss T, the next statement date being 8 
October 2019 and she will retain  the ability to manage her account online;
 Reinstate  interest charges as at the October  2018 rates,  before  the account went  
into arrears so £7078.51 will be charged at 6.9% APR until paid off, the remaining 
balance, currently £3043.21, will be charged  at the standard rate of 19.2% APR. This 
reinstated interest will begin on 8 October 2019;
 No interest has been charged since October  2018;
 The account will remain closed allowing Miss T to continue paying £260.00 per 
month or in accordance  with her statements if the minimum  payment is lower;
 Pay £250.00 for distress  and inconvenience  to Miss T.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard should  now
Ref: DRN64625112Remove the default recorded for this account on 29 January 2019 from Miss Ts files 
with credit reference agencies.
Liaise  with Miss T to assess whether an acceptable arrangement to pay can be 
reached.
Pay Miss T £250 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience this has 
caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64625113Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss T complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard  (Barclaycard) were  wrong to 
default her account when theyd told her they werent  going to do so.
background
On 28 January 2018 Barclaycard defaulted  Miss Ts account with them. Shed missed making the 
minimum repayment  on 4 October  2018 and in a call on 24 October  2018 agreed with Barclaycard her 
account would suspended for 30 days with no interest or charges. In a call on 22 November 2018 
Miss T undertook an income and expenditure  assessment and was found to have negative  income.
Miss T contacted Barclays on 29 January  2019 to resume  payments but was told the account had 
defaulted the day before. She complained to them stating shed been told on 22 November 2018 it 
wouldnt default.  Barclaycard  agreed it had given  Miss T poor service and incorrect  advice when she 
called them on 22 November 2018. They believed Miss T left that conversation believing the account  
wouldnt default no matter  what the letter said. So they upheld the customer service  element of her 
case and offered  to pay £150 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused to Miss T. But 
Barclaycard says it was correct to default the account as Miss T confirmed to them in January 2019  
her circumstances remained  the same. Barclaycard  said whether or not Miss T was advised  correctly  
in the call on 22 November  2018, they thought she wouldnt have  been unable to return to contractual  
monthly payments before  the expiry of the default notice  as she was unable to afford the payments. 
So they thought her account  wouldve defaulted anyway.
Our adjudicator didnt think Barclaycard did anything wrong in applying  the default  on the account.  
She thought  the reporting of the default on Miss Ts account to the credit reference agencies  wasnt 
unreasonable in the circumstances  as this was a true reflection of how her she managed her account. 
She also found Barclaycard  took a positive  and sympathetic approach to Miss Ts circumstances  at 
the time, considering  her ability to repay her outstanding balance. So she didnt ask them to remove 
the default  and thought the offer of £150 compensation  was reasonable compensation  for the 
misinformation shed  received in the call on 22 November  2018.
Miss T didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman  to review the case. She was concerned  that the 
adjudicator didnt seem familiar with her situation of the correct details of the case. She reiterated that 
shed done everything she could to communicate with Barclaycard to avoid a default  and was told that 
her agreement would absolutely not lead to a default.  And she said it was incorrect to say she couldnt  
have paid the arrears on the account as had she known  the account  would be defaulted she said she 
would have got the money together  no matter what by selling possessions or asking her large network  
of family  and friends for help. 
Miss T recently asked for the ombudsman  making the final decision  to take into account  extracts from 
her credit record and to be advised that shed spoken to an independent mortgage advisor who 
advised her it will be just about impossible to place  her with even a specialist lender, with the 
Barclaycard default on her file because the default is not settled and because  it is such a large 
amount.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The call Miss T made to Barclaycard on 22 November  2018 and the impact it had is central  to this 
case. Barclaycard  accept  they gave her incorrect information in it and that Miss T left the conversation 
believing the account  wouldnt default no matter  what the subsequent  letter said.  Theyve  offered 
£150 compensation for this failing which they describe as customer service. But they think the default 
Ref: DRN64625114was correctly recorded and should remain  on her file. But, on the evidence currently before me, Im 
not minded to agree  with Barclaycards analysis.  And I currently  think the corrective action and 
compensation Barclaycard  have suggested doesnt  go far enough.
Ive listened to the call from 22 November  2018.  I found the advice given in the call to be confusing  
and contradictory at points. Whilst on one hand  the operative says a notice of default  will be sent, 
when Miss T queried this she was told this was an arrangement and not a default.  It seems to me 
from the call Miss T was at pains to avoid the account defaulting and she specifically asked for 
confirmation - which was given  - that a default wouldnt be registered. I appreciate Miss T wasnt told 
by the operative to ignore the notice of default  posted to her after the call but on the other hand she 
was clearly told in the call that the account wouldnt default. And Barclaycard say they believed  Miss T 
left that conversation believing the account wouldnt default no matter  what  the letter said. So I can 
understand why she didnt respond until late January 2019 with further proposals for payment.  And I 
can also appreciate why Miss T thought at the end of that call that shed engaged with the bank,  
reached an arrangement  and that there was no danger of a default.
The impact  of the misinformation was that no payments  were  made  and the account  defaulted. Whilst 
I cant  know  for certain what wouldve happened if Miss T had been correctly  advised  about  the 
default notice and its impact, on balance, Im not persuaded a default was inevitable here for a couple  
of reasons. Since the default I can see Miss T has made  regular monthly payments towards the 
account from 28 February 2019 onwards  of an amount  in line with what  she was paying before she 
encountered financial difficulties. And thats despite  there  being no material change in her 
circumstances since the call on 22 November 2018 when  she was assessed as being  in negative  
income. So Miss Ts been able to find the additional funds  as she said she would. Secondly the 
pattern of contact  between  Miss T and Barclaycard, along  with her payment history both before and 
after the default doesnt suggest to me the relationship between  them had broken  down. Miss T was 
proactive in contacting Barclaycard, initially  on 24 October 2018 to advise of financial difficulties and 
to agree a 30 day suspension of the account.  She contacted  Barclays inside  that period, on 22 
November 2018, to try to agree payments. And she voluntarily began payments in February 2019 
after the default.  So I dont think  theres anything to suggest the relationship between  the parties had 
broken down  and I cant agree with Barclaycards assertion that whether  or not Miss T was given 
misinformation on 22 November 2018 the account wouldve defaulted  anyway.
Im also not persuaded  it was right for Barclaycard to default this account when  it did. I say that for a 
number of reasons. The records Ive seen show Miss T making regular  payments until October  2018 
when she missed  payment for that month and then November 2018.  But the missed payment for 
November 2018 was during a 30 day period where the account  was suspended following Miss T 
reporting financial difficulties  to Barclaycard on 24 October 2018. On 22 November  2018 she then 
contacted Barclaycard to avoid a default and arrange proposals for payment but was misinformed.
Ive considered The Principles for the Reporting  of Arrears,  Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies published by The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) in July 2016. It is 
guidance intended to be the main  source of advice  for the public on the reporting of (amongst other 
things) defaults. Those principles provide  a default may occur when an account is three months  in 
arrears and normally  by the time an account  is six months. At the point the default  notice was issued 
on 23 November 2018 the account had only missed two payments  for October  and November 2018   
one of those being whilst it was suspended - so it wasnt quite three months in arrears.
Whilst that alone wouldnt  automatically lead to a finding that a default  was incorrectly recorded  
theres another feature  here that make me think thats the case  too. The ICOs guidance also says 
accounts in arrangements to pay shouldnt be defaulted unless the arrangement  was broken. But due 
to the misinformation in the call Miss T thought this was an agreement and remained so until she 
contacted B again on 28 January 2019 with a request  to resume  payments only to be told the account 
had already defaulted.
So, overall  I currently think  the impact  of the misinformation Barclaycard gave on 22 November 2019 
resulted in this account  defaulting when it did. In order to correct their mistake I think  Barclaycard 
Ref: DRN64625115should now put Miss T back in the position she would  have been in had the incorrect information  not 
been given in that call. And for the reasons Ive explained  I currently think, on balance,  that wouldve 
meant Miss T agreed a payment plan then to avoid  the account  defaulting.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further representations 
I receive from the parties by the date below  Im planning  to ask Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to
Remove the default recorded for this account  on 29 January  2019 from Miss Ts files with 
credit reference  agencies.
Liaise with Miss T to assess whether an acceptable arrangement to pay can be reached.
Pay Miss T £250 compensation  to recognise  the distress and inconvenience this has caused 
her.  
I now invite  Miss T and Barclays Bank UK PLC trading  as Barclaycard to let me have any further 
comments by 8 September 2019, after which I will issue my final decision.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6462511