K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Link Financial Outsourcing  Limited (Link) didnt record  transactions  
correctly on her account.
background
Link administers a repayment plan on a debt that originally arose on Miss Cs credit  card.  
Miss C paid £2 per month towards paying off this debt. Link says that it didnt receive any 
payments from Miss C between July and November 2017. Miss C says that during this 
period she paid over the counter at her bank  rather than by bank transfer and not at the 
same intervals due to health issues. As a result, there is a £10 discrepancy between  what 
Miss C and Link believe is owing  on the account.  
In May 2018, Link cancelled  Miss Cs repayment plan, as it said shed stopped making 
payments. Miss C complained to Link saying that payments hadnt stopped, that shed 
previously disputed the balance of her account  and that shed kept Link informed of changes  
in her circumstances.  Link hasnt accepted Miss Cs complaint believing that its done 
nothing wrong.
Miss C remained  unhappy  and asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator felt that 
Link could have done more to look into the balance discrepancy, noting that Miss C hadnt 
stopped paying in 2018 but had paid £1 rather £2 because of costs  shed had to pay in 
dealing with the dispute. The investigator  suggested  that Link should write off £11 of 
Miss Cs debt and ensure  there is no adverse effect  on her of the account being in arrears. 
Because of Miss Cs worry  and inconvenience, the investigator proposed  that Link should 
pay Miss C £100 compensation. 
Link agreed to pay the £100 compensation but wanted further  information  so that it could 
review the balance discrepancy.  This information was given  to Link in June 2019. Since then 
the investigator has tried to contact Link on numerous occasions  but Link hasnt responded 
to our enquiries. The case has now come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss C made  payments of £2 per month to her account from June 2012 until 
June 2017. Links records then dont show any payments being made between July and 
November 2017.  Miss C says that she made  these  payments and has provided details of her 
payment records including bank paying-in receipts. Whilst its possible these payments may 
have gone astray,  Im satisfied Miss C has done what she can to demonstrate that she made  
the payments.  The payments were slightly different to what  Miss C had agreed with Link; 
she paid £4 every other month rather than £2 per month. Miss C says shed told Link about 
this and that it was due to health reasons. Im satisfied  the payments total the same amount. 
This is how the £10 discrepancy has come about.
Given Miss Cs original  correspondence and the time Link has had to review her payment 
information, it is disappointing that it has not yet provided any substantive  reason why it 
hasnt accepted the resolution our investigator proposed. Ive thought about whether this 
might be causing Miss C further  distress that warrants an additional compensation award.  
Ref: DRN61791362However, in this situation Ive decided that its appropriate to avoid more  delay and simply 
require Link to take the actions proposed  by our investigator, which  I consider offers a fair 
and reasonable way to bring  matters  to a close.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.
To resolve  the complaint  Link Financial Outsourcing Limited is to take the following steps 
within fourteen days of receiving Miss Cs acceptance of my decision:
1) reduce Miss Cs outstanding  debt by £11, to reflect the missing payments and the £1 
postage cost she incurred in trying  to resolve the discrepancy;
2) pay - not credit  Miss C £100 compensation for the trouble and upset she has 
suffered; and
3) if it hasnt already  done so, reinstate Miss Cs payment plan at the agreed £2 per 
month and remove any adverse payment  information it may have recorded in relation 
to the payments mentioned in this decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6179136