K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about the settlement paid by Society of Lloyds (Lloyds)  when she made  a 
claim on a home contents insurance policy.
background
Mrs M has a home contents  policy which is underwritten by Lloyds. Her property was 
damaged by a fire which also caused many  of the contents to be damaged. She claimed  on 
the policy.
After reviewing the claim and appointing agents to make enquiries, Lloyds paid Mrs M a 
total of £66,949.73. Her policy said the maximum Lloyds would pay in the event of a claim 
was £80,000.  It had calculated the amount it had paid her as being the total payable  after its 
agents costs  had been deducted from the £80,000 maximum amount payable  on the policy. 
Mrs M was unhappy about this. She said it hadnt  been clear that the £80,000 limit was 
intended to cover everything  in her house.  She also said it was unfair  to allow  Lloyds to 
deduct the agents costs from the amount payable to her. 
She was also unhappy  with the way the claim had been handled, saying  that the agents had 
taken too long to make  enquiries and resolve the claim. She thought  those delays had meant 
that more items had been damaged beyond repair. And she wasnt  happy that certain  items  
had been disposed of rather than returned  to her.
Lloyds rejected Mrs Ms complaint. It said that the £80,000 was the total sum insured, and 
this amount included  the costs it paid agents which were needed to resolve the claim. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator thought  Lloyds had acted 
unfairly in deducting the agents costs  from the amount payable to Mrs M. But she didnt 
agree that the agents had acted unreasonably  when assessing the claim.
Mrs M agreed  with our investigator. But as Lloyds didnt  respond to her view,  the complaints  
come to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to this complaint which I need  to consider. Firstly,  whether the 
settlement made to Mrs M is fair, and also whether the claim was handled properly by 
Lloyds agents.
The claim settlement
Lloyds doesnt  dispute that the cost of replacing of Mrs Ms contents which  were  damaged  
beyond repair in the fire exceeds £80,000.  Her policy provides cover on a new-for-old basis. 
Mrs M wasnt able to provide costs  for a lot of the items which  had been  damaged.  But 
Lloyds and its agents did conclude the total value would exceed  £80,000.  
Ref: DRN69144882Lloyds hasnt paid Mrs M £80,000 in settlement of the claim.  This is because its paid a 
number of different  agents to validate the claim and its value. And its deducted the costs of 
these agents from the amount payable on the claim.  It means  that Mrs M has actually been 
paid over £13,000 less than the amount stated on her schedule as being the maximum 
claim limit.
Lloyds argues that the claim limit includes  all of its payments on the claim, whether that be 
to the policyholder, in this case Mrs M, or the agents. I dont  think this is reasonable. Ive 
looked at both the schedule and the policy wording  and cant  see anywhere where its stated  
that the maximum claim limit includes costs payable by the insurer to validate and progress 
a claim.  
The policy terms and conditions say that the most  Lloyds will pay is the maximum claims 
limit or any other limit shown in the schedule or in the policy  booklet . Mrs Ms policy  
schedule confirms the maximum claims limit on her policy is £80,000.  
The policy terms and conditions define  the maximum claim limit as The most we will pay 
for any claim  under any section (or its extension)  as shown  in this policy booklet or 
schedule. Im satisfied that, in the absence  of any additional wording about deductions, a 
reasonable interpretation of this is that, in the event  of a claim, the insurer will pay the 
policyholder a maximum of £80,000, even if the value  of the claim exceeds that amount. 
So I dont  think Lloyds  acted fairly  in deducting its agents costs  from the £80,000 maximum 
claim limit. And to put things right, it should  pay Mrs M £13,050.27. This is the difference 
between the £80,000 policy limit and the £66,949.73 its already  paid her in settlement of the 
claim. 
Lloyds accepts that the value of Mrs Ms items which have been damaged  beyond  repair  
was in excess of £80,000.  So it should pay the maximum claim limit stated on the policy 
schedule. And it should  also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on the £13,050.27 
from the date of its last payment to Mrs M. She would have otherwise been in receipt of that 
amount if it hadnt limited  its settlement to her.
I cant agree,  however,  that Lloyds should  pay any more than £80,000. I know Mrs M says 
she wasnt aware that the £80,000 limit which she chose was intended to cover  all of her 
items. But I think the policy terms and conditions and the wording of the schedule  that Ive 
highlighted above were clear that the most which would be paid for the contents  insured on 
this policy  was £80,000. I cant see anything in the terms and conditions  which  suggests  that 
other items would be covered separately  and subject to different limits.
The handling  of the claim
Mrs M also complained about the length of time which it took Lloyds agents to properly store 
items and complete their enquiries.  She thinks some of her belongings were left outside for 
an unnecessarily  long time, which has meant  that theyve  been further damaged  and 
couldnt be repaired.
The circumstances of this claim were that a very large  fire rendered Mrs Ms home  
uninhabitable and damaged many of the items  inside it. And the evidence  I have  is that 
many of these items had a sentimental value. 
Ref: DRN69144883Lloyds agents  worked with Mrs M to identify as many items as possible which could be 
salvaged and returned to her. But the size of the fire, and the damage caused  by it, meant 
that some  items were outside for longer than they would  ideally have  been.  But I should say 
that securing the property wasnt the responsibility of Lloyds agent, and I cant  see how it 
could reasonably have removed every  item from the property  sooner  than it did.
Due to the number of items which had been  recovered from the property and had been  
damaged, Lloyds agent and Mrs M were in contact  for a period of over a year to see what 
could be recovered,  what was damaged beyond repair, and provide an idea of costs to 
assist with reaching the settlement figure. 
During that period, for personal reasons, there was a length  of time when Mrs M wasnt in a 
position to review the items. Based on what Ive seen, I cant  say that Lloyds agent has 
caused unnecessary  delays  to the claim being processed. While it took a long time to 
resolve, the size and nature of the claim meant that this was inevitable. Insurers  have a duty 
to promptly and fairly assess claims.  I dont think the actions of Lloyds agents here have 
breached that duty.
Mrs M also said she was unhappy that certain  items  had been disposed of before she could 
see them.  But I can see that extensive  lists were provided to her before anything was 
disposed of, and she had the opportunity to discuss  with Lloyds agents anything she wanted 
to see or have returned before disposal.
So for these reasons, Im not persuaded that the handling of the claim by Lloyds agents fell 
below the standards which could reasonably be expected of them  in the circumstances.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part. To put things right, Society of 
Lloyds must:
pay Mrs M £13,050.27;
pay interest on this amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of its last 
payment to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6914488