K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained that Southern Rock Insurance Company unfairly cancelled his motor 
policy as if it hadnt  existed (known as voidance).
In bringing this complaint Mr Cs occasionally been  helped by a relative.  But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to his relatives comments as being Mr Cs.
Reference to Southern  Rock incudes its agents.
background 
Mr C and his son bought a car. Mr C insured  it. He said he was the cars owner and 
registered keeper  but that his son was the main  driver.  Some months later Mr Cs son was in 
an accident. At that point Southern Rock found out that Mr C wasnt the cars registered  
keeper, his son was. Southern Rock said that if it had known Mr C wasnt the cars 
registered keeper  it wouldnt  have insured him. It voided Mr Cs policy and didnt return  his 
premium. It said it would be required  to settle  the claim from the other driver that Mr Cs son 
was in the accident with (the third party) and it would  seek to recover  those  costs  from Mr C. 
Mr C didnt think it was fair for Southern Rock to void his policy and brought  his complaint to 
us. I issued a provisional decision on 29 July 2020.  For ease  Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it although, for the reasons given  below, I think that Southern  Rocks  decision to void the 
policy was reasonable.
 
In bringing this complaint Mr Cs made  a number  of detailed points but in this decision I will 
focus on what I see as being the key outstanding issues.  
Mr C and his son bought a car together. Mr C says he gave  his son some  birthday money  
towards the cost of the car. Then,  with the help of a relative, Mr C insured it through  a price 
comparison website. When doing  so he was asked who the cars registered  keeper was and 
he said it was himself.  But his son had registered  himself, not Mr C, as the cars keeper. 
Mr Cs told us he hadnt realised that his son had recorded himself as the registered  keeper 
on the cars V5 (log book). So Mr C gave Southern Rock incorrect  information when he took 
the policy out. 
Giving incorrect information  when  applying for a policy is known in the insurance industry as 
making a misrepresentation. And I have to decide  whether  or not Southern Rocks response 
to Mr Cs misrepresentation was fair.
I understand that Mr C didnt deliberately  give Southern Rock incorrect information about 
who was the cars  keeper. And the situation  arose  because of confusion between  himself 
and his son over who to record as the registered keeper. But when applying  for an insurance 
policy a consumer is required to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. In 
this case its not in dispute  that Mr C gave Southern Rock  incorrect information, although 
Mr C says he didnt realise he was doing  so at the time. But I think he could have avoided  
making that misrepresentation by speaking  with his son and confirming who the registered 
keeper was. But Mr C didnt do that. 
Ref: DRN63814172Mr Cs said he answered the questions to the best of his knowledge  when he said he was 
the cars  registered  keeper. But given  that he gave birthday money to his son in order to buy 
the car and his son was to be its main driver then I can understand why his son thought he 
was going to be the registered keeper. So as there was scope  for confusion as to who was 
going to be its registered keeper I think Mr C should have made  sure he knew who the 
registered keeper  was when he insured the car. And as he didnt do so I dont think  he took 
reasonable care when  answering Southern Rocks questions  when applying for the policy. 
Theres specific legislation, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA), which sets out what an insurer  may do where a consumers made a 
misrepresentation. It says that where, but for that misrepresentation,  an insurer wouldnt 
have entered  into the contract, otherwise known as the policy, it may refuse any claim and 
void the policy.
In this case Southern Rock  has shown  us its underwriting  criteria.  Those are the rules that 
Southern Rock follows when deciding whether to insure someone or not. And those show  
that it wont offer policies  to people who arent the registered keeper of the car in question  
(with the exception of where the registered  keeper is the policyholders spouse). So, if Mr C 
had told Southern Rock that it was his son, rather than himself, who was the cars registered 
keeper, then Southern Rock wouldnt have offered him the policy  at all. And in those 
circumstances CIDRA  allows Southern  Rock  to void the policy, which  is what  it did.
CIDRA says that where an insurer may void a policy because a consumer deliberately or 
recklessly made a misrepresentation then the insurer may keep the full premium. But where  
that misrepresentation is careless - rather  than deliberate or reckless  - then the insurer 
should return the premium. In this case Southern Rock said Mr Cs misrepresentation was 
reckless. But I disagree. For Southern Rock to fairly say that Mr C had recklessly given it 
incorrect information it would need to show that Mr C didnt care about  whether or not he 
gave it the correct information.  But I dont  think Southern Rock has demonstrated  thats the 
case. Mr Cs explained  how the confusion around who was the registered keeper of the car 
arose and that led to his mistake. Im aware  that Mr C could fairly easily have avoided 
making that mistake  by speaking with his son. But I dont think  that means  he didnt care at 
all whether or not he gave incorrect information;  instead I think  his mistake  was a result of 
carelessness rather than recklessness. It follows that I dont think  it was fair for 
Southern Rock to simply say it would retain  the premium instalments Mr C had already paid 
nor to continue to pursue him for the balance of the premium  that was outstanding.
That said,  Im aware that because it insured  the car at the time of the accident, even though 
its since voided the policy, Southern Rock is required to settle the third partys  claim. And its 
told Mr C that it will seek to recover its costs from him. And I think  thats reasonable. So, I 
dont think its fair to insist  that Southern Rock refund to Mr C the premium hes already paid. 
Instead I think its reasonable  for Southern Rock to offset those premium payments against  
its costs for settling the third partys claim. If those costs are less than Mr Cs premium  
payments then Southern Rock should refund  to Mr C any balance. But if the costs  are higher 
than Mr Cs premium  payments then it need not refund any amount.
For completeness Ill add that Mr C has told us he disputes the amounts Southern  Rocks  
paid to settle the third partys claim. But that dispute wasnt  part of the complaint he initially 
put to Southern Rock or to us. So I dont intend  to comment  on those points here and  if he 
hasnt already done so  Mr C can pursue that complaint with Southern Rock in a separate  
complaint.
Ref: DRN63814173developments 
Both Mr C and Southern  Rock accepted  my provisional decision. Mr C added that he was 
disappointed  he hadnt received paperwork when he took out the policy that would have 
allowed him to correct any errors. He also said Southern Rock told him  it would keep  him 
updated with progress on the claim but didnt do so. 
Southern Rock told us that it had offset Mr Cs premium payments against  its claims  costs.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im going to partly uphold  
it. 
Both Mr C and Southern  Rock accepted  my provisional decision so Im not going to change  
it. But Ive noted  Mr C has referred to not receiving paperwork when he took the policy  out. 
This isnt something Ive looked into. That said when Southern Rock gave us its file, it 
included a welcome letter which said the policy documents were included.  But even if Mr C 
didnt receive that I dont  think  that changed the fact Mr C made a misrepresentation when 
applying for the policy. Also Mr C said Southern Rock didnt keep him updated. But this 
wasnt part of the complaint I looked  into either, so I dont intend to comment  on that here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  Unless  it has already done  so I 
require Southern Rock Insurance Company to offset  any premium payments Mr Cs made 
against its costs for settling the third partys claim.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6381417