K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that mistakes by Scottish  Widows  Limited delayed  the investment of his 
pension fund and hes suffered financial loss as a result.
background
Mr J moved the value of his defined benefit  pension to a Self Invested Personal  Pension 
(SIPP) with Scottish Widows. There were administrative  errors by the business which meant  
there was a delay  in investing Mr Js funds. Mr J says hes suffered financial loss as a result.
Scottish Widows  accepted its service couldve been better and offered compensation of 
£150. But its response contained further  errors, and the business  increased its 
compensation offer by another £150.  Mr J didnt accept either of Scottish Widows offers.
He said that even if hed invested  in a standard building  society account he wouldve earned 
considerably more in interest than Scottish  Widows  was offering.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that the 
funds Mr J was likely to have invested  in had gone down in value between  the time he 
wouldve invested and the date he actually  invested.  So the investigator didnt find Mr J had 
suffered any financial  loss.
The investigator also considered the compensation offered by Scottish Widows was fair and 
reasonable in light of the mistakes that had been made.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said,  in summary, that Scottish  
Widows poor service  had affected  the performance  of his SIPP. Mr J said that even if hed 
made a low risk investment he couldve earned about £1,500 during the time his pension  
fund wasnt invested.  He considered his trading history meant it was likely  he wouldve 
increased the value  of the pension fund.
In addition, Mr J didnt  think the stress and worry hed experienced had been  properly 
considered. He asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most  likely to have happened  in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
The mistakes made  by Scottish  Widows  arent in dispute, and the business has accepted  
that its poor service caused a delay in investing Mr Js pension fund. So I wont  repeat the 
details of the mistakes  that were made.
What I need to determine is whether  Mr J has suffered any loss as a result of Scottish 
Widows mistakes.  I also need to consider whether the compensation its offered is enough 
in light of the stress and inconvenience  Mr J suffered.
Ref: DRN64427332I should explain at the outset that where  a mistake has been made, our approach to redress 
is to put the customer  into the position they wouldve been in if that mistake hadnt  
happened. 
This can be difficult in investment cases because we cant know exactly how a customer 
wouldve invested. We take account  of the available evidence and consider how we think the 
customer was likely  to have invested.  In making  this assessment, we look at evidence  of any 
investment plans the customer had at the relevant  time,  together with any actual investments 
theyve made since.
In this case, if there hadnt been  any delay Mr J shouldve been able to invest  his pension 
fund on 14 December 2018. On 24 December (when the funds were  available  to trade), I 
understand Mr J told Scottish Widows he was looking to invest  in Ryder Inverse S&P500 
and ProShares  UltraShort  S&P500. These investments were made on 10 January 2019.
I accept that its possible  a different investment decision might  have  been  made  between  14 
December and 24 December. But this is quite a narrow timeframe within which  Mr J might 
have amended his investment strategy. Mr J has said that trading conditions,  especially in 
terms of market volatility, were different between the fourth  quarter of 2018 and the first 
quarter of 2019, and that this would have prompted  a different investment strategy. But the 
VIX (volatility) index suggests  that trading sentiment was more similar on the 14 December 
and 10 January than it was on 24 December,  at which point  the index peaked for that 
timeframe. So I dont think this supports the position that Mr Js investment strategy would 
have been different on 14 December 2018  from that implemented  on 10 January 2019.
So from what Ive seen  and been  told, I think its likely that Mr J wouldve made the same 
investments if hed been able to do so on 14 December 2018.  But from what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the values  of those funds were  lower by the time he invested in January  2019. 
So I dont  think I can safely say that Mr J has suffered financial loss as a result  of Scottish 
Widows delay.
Ive noted the points  Mr J has made about  the interest he couldve earned  on his fund if hed 
made a low risk investment. But as Ive already explained, our approach  to redress is to look 
at the investment we think a customer is likely to have made. From what Ive seen, I think its 
unlikely that Mr J wouldve made the low risk investment hes referred to. So this point 
doesnt change  my conclusions about whether there  was any financial loss.
Mr J doesnt consider £300 is enough compensation  in light of the financial loss he 
considers he suffered  or the stress  and inconvenience he experienced.
As Ive already  said, Im not persuaded Mr J has suffered any financial loss. So I need  to 
think about whether  Scottish Widows offer is enough in light of the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused.  
I dont doubt that Mr J was distressed by the delay in his ability  to trade  his pension funds, 
and the amount to be invested was significant.  But the whereabouts of the funds werent  in 
doubt and so at no point  would Mr J have  had cause for concern that his pension funds were 
in peril. Nor had Mr J expressed  a desire  to access his pension funds and was prevented  
from doing so. When  I take account of Scottish Widows mistakes,  and awards  made by this 
service in complaints  of a similar nature, Im satisfied that the compensation offered is fair 
and reasonable.
Ref: DRN64427333my final decision
My decision  is that the £300 offered by Scottish  Widows is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6442733