K820x#14complaint
Miss M complained she was mis-sold  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BoS).
background
Miss M took out the PPI in December 1996  when she applied  for a credit card. BoS and Miss 
M agreed that she applied  for the card by post and that she wasnt advised to take the PPI. 
Miss M said she wasnt given a choice about  taking the PPI, and she didnt need it as she 
had good employee benefits.  
The policy cost 69p per £100.00 owed. If Miss M had successfully claimed  on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
so didnt uphold  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Miss Ms credit card application form. Miss Ms details were 
handwritten on the form, and I can see that Miss M had to tick a box to say that she wanted 
the PPI  she couldve simply left it blank  to show that she didnt want  it. Theres nothing  on 
the application to say that the PPI was compulsory. So from what I can see, I think Miss M 
had a choice about taking  the PPI, and decided  to do so.
BoS didnt advise Miss M to take out the policy, so it didnt need  to make sure that the PPI 
was suitable for her. But it shouldve given  her enough information  for her to decide  whether 
the policy was right for her. 
The credit card application shows brief details of the cover,  and refers  only to a specimen 
policy being available.  So I dont  know what information about the cost and benefits Miss M 
wouldve had available to her when she filled in the form. 
Miss M said she wouldve  been entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months  full pay 
and six months half pay. But she said she had no other means of making the credit card 
payments if she couldnt work. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss M has said, but overall  I think she couldve found  
it difficult to meet the monthly payments on the card once her sick pay reduced or if she lost 
her job. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim. 
From what  Miss M told us about her circumstances, I dont think  shed have  been  affected by 
Ref: DRN68253292any of the main exclusions in the PPI policy. And Ive no reason to think  that the cost of the 
PPI was an issue for her. So overall I think  the PPI couldve provided  a useful benefit. 
Although I cant be certain that BoS provided enough information about the policy,  Im not 
satisfied that Miss M would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It 
couldve provided useful  protection  for her if she couldnt work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss M paid for it. But BoS has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Miss M about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Miss M, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive concluded that the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so Bank 
of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6825329