K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc continued to collect  premiums  for his motor  
insurance policy after it told him it had been cancelled.
background
Mr Bs car was deemed to be beyond economical repair following an accident. AXA then 
paid Mr B a settlement and tried to contact Mr B to collect his car, but without  success. It 
also told Mr B that he was no longer insured. 
But on 1 March 2018, AXA wrote to Mr B telling him that his policy would cancel from 10 
days after it was notified that his car was a total loss. Mr B called AXA and said he still had 
the car. AXA later said the policy continued.  But Mr B bought  a new car and took out cover 
elsewhere and so he was paying  for two policies. Mr B wants  the unauthorised payments to 
be refunded. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought AXA had 
told Mr B that his policy would cancel and no further premiums would be taken. She thought 
Mr B had called  AXA as it requested. But she didnt think AXA had then given Mr B clear 
information about the cancellation and what this meant for him and his car. 
Mr B then took out cover elsewhere  for a new car. The investigator thought  this had caused 
Mr B financial loss. So she thought AXA should  refund his premiums,  with interest, from the 
date it wrote to tell him his policy would be cancelled. 
AXA said it had continued the policy as Mr B said he still had the car. It said Mr B hadnt  
taken out cover for his car elsewhere or declared  it SORN so it had fulfilled Mr Bs legal 
obligation by continuing to provide cover. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there were  communication problems between  AXA and Mr B. AXA said it 
emailed and called him after the decision to declare his car a total loss. He didnt respond, 
so it then wrote to him. But Mr B said hed had no contact from AXA since the incident apart 
from requests to call it and a cheque  for £600  that had no explanation. 
Looking at the files provided, I cant see what happened clearly. But AXA did agree that Mr B 
had tried to make contact  and hadnt been able to reach it due to long call waiting times.  And 
it paid him £50 compensation for this. AXA had paid Mr B a settlement for the total loss of 
his car and it had then tried to recover the salvage  from him. But Mr B still retained the car. 
In the meantime, the policy continued, although AXA wrote  to Mr B saying that he was no 
longer insured. Then  AXA wrote  to Mr B on 1 March  2018 to tell him it would cancel from the 
date it decided his car was a total loss and no further premiums would be taken.  And it 
asked Mr B to call it if hed kept the car, used it or planned to change his car on the policy.  
Ref: DRN60615692Mr B called AXA when  he received this letter. But I cant  see that AXA established Mr Bs 
intentions. I think  that as Mr B responded to AXAs request to call it as he still had the car, 
then AXA should  have discussed what this meant  for his policy.  At the time,  the claim was in 
dispute and so still open. I think AXA should have reasonably also told Mr B what  this meant 
for his policy. 
From what  I can see, this was the first time AXA had spoken  to Mr B since the accident was 
reported. The named driver had been in contact, but AXA had declined to speak with her. So 
I think AXA missed an opportunity to clarify matters with Mr B. Mr B didnt say that he 
intended to change his car. But hed been told clearly that the policy had been cancelled 
back in December. 
However, AXA said the policy continued and it still collected Mr Bs premiums. From what  I 
can see, Mr B didnt notice this as he said the premiums were paid from his mothers 
account. 
Mr B said that as the policy  was cancelled, he scrapped his car, bought  a new one and took 
out cover  elsewhere.  Hes provided  us with evidence of his new policy.  I think  if AXA had told 
him that cover would continue, or if it had fully discussed Mr Bs options  at this time, then he 
would have made a different decision.
So I think AXAs level of service in March 2018 caused Mr B a financial loss as he was 
paying for two policies  and one wasnt needed as he no longer had the old car. To restore 
Mr Bs position, I agree  with the investigator  that AXA should refund Mr Bs premiums from 
when it told him the policy was cancelled, March 2018. Mr B has been without his money for 
some time, so I think  AXA should reasonably  add interest to this refund. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to refund to 
Mr B the policy premiums it collected  from March 2018, adding  interest  at 8% per annum  
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6061569