K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that before it will proceed  to repair  a drain  following a claim they 
made under their home emergency insurance  policy Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) 
requires them to pay for a structural engineers report.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 June  2019,  a copy of which  is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mr W responded to say, in summary,  that he thought there were two ways of repairing  his 
drain:
by digging up and repairing the drain  from outside the house, which  didnt involve 
taking down any walls and so didnt need a structural report;  or
by taking down  a supporting wall to get to the drain which was on the outside  of the 
house.
He said the second route  didnt make sense  to him, but if Aviva wanted  to do this it should 
pay for the structural report.
The investigator asked  Aviva to put what Mr W was saying to the specialist drainage 
engineer it had consulted.  The engineer  responded as follows:
If memory serves  I believe  the issue is located at the bottom of the down pipe located 
behind the brick wall. In order  to repair  this defect access directly at the bottom of the 
downpipe would be required  and in order to get access a section of the wall, at the bottom, 
would need to be removed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas specialist engineer continues to say that removal of a section of the wall is necessary 
for it to carry out the repair. Mr W disagrees, but hasnt  produced  any expert  evidence  to 
support his view.  In these circumstances, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision,  
I think Aviva  has acted  reasonably under the policy.
I think Aviva  is entitled to say that, for the protection of its engineers, a structural  survey is 
needed to establish how access to the broken drain  can safely be made, and that 
Mr and Mrs W must pay for this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and I make  no order  against 
Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Ref: DRN63121182Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63121183COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 21 JUNE  2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that before it will proceed to repair a drain following  a claim they made  under  
their home  emergency insurance policy  Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva) requires them to pay for a 
structural engineers  report.
background
In June 2018,  Mr and Mrs W called  on Aviva under their home emergency insurance policy in respect 
of a drain which was leaking  waste water into their cellar. Because it was difficult  to ascertain what 
was causing the problem, the claim  was escalated through a number of engineers.
Eventually a specialist drainage  engineer attended.  He reported to Aviva as follows:
Attended site to survey  line
upon survey  I realised that there was a defect at the bottom of the 2 meter gully which the camera 
could not visibly pick up
however when Jetting to see if there was a blockage  the pipe in the cellar started leaking through the 
wall
so the outlet line has become displaced  from the gully pot which  is not letting the water escape
I recommend an excavation  to expose the gully pot through brick  wall in the cellar and then camera 
the line upon  access to check for further defects.
Aviva was concerned that the brick  wall in the cellar that the drainage engineer referred to was a 
structural wall. So it wanted  to make  sure that any excavation of this wall was safe. It told 
Mr and Mrs W that they would have to provide, at their expense,  a structural  survey to say how any 
excavation could be safely made.  
Aviva pointed to a general exclusion in the policy terms which said it wouldnt be liable for:
k) any situation where due to health  and safety,  a specialist person is required, eg where asbestos is 
present.
Aviva said that once  the survey was produced it would  be happy  to proceed to carry out the repair  to 
the drain. Mr and Mrs W didnt think this was fair and complained to us. They thought  this was all part 
of the work  of repairing  the drain and should be covered  under the policy by Aviva.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld.  He appreciated that it seemed 
access was required to be made through a load bearing wall, and Aviva was concerned for the health 
and safety  of its engineers.
However he didnt see why Mr and Mrs W should have to arrange for the report. And until the report  
was prepared, and it confirmed there was in fact a health  and safety issue, he didnt think it fair for 
Aviva to apply  the exclusion.  So he recommended that Aviva should pay for the structural report, and 
then authorise  the required  work to be done based on its findings.
Aviva responded  to say, in summary, that under  the exclusion it had referred to it wasnt required  to 
provide specialist  contractors under  the policy. In relation to the policy business  of repairing pipes and 
drains, structural issues required a specialist;
The investigator didnt agree. He thought in the context of this type of repair  a structural surveyor 
couldnt be considered unusual or specialist, but in this case was an integral part of the claims 
process. So Aviva  should pay for the survey.
Ref: DRN63121184Aviva didnt agree. So this complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The issue I have to decide is whether the structural issue that has arisen in this case should be 
treated as part and parcel of the repair  of Mr and Mrs Ws drain under  their home  emergency policy, 
or is outside the normal situations covered by the policy and so is covered  by the exclusion Aviva  has 
referred to.
On balance, I have come  to a different view from the investigator. While I accept  it may not be 
unknown for structural  issues  to arise occasionally in the course  of repairing  pipes  and drains in 
properties, I dont think it can be said to be part of the normal work  which is dealt with under a home 
emergency policy.
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to include a provision in its policy saying it wouldnt be 
liable for the cost of employing  a specialist,  that is a surveyor,  if this was necessary for health and 
safety reasons. 
I think  it was reasonable for the drainage engineer  to be concerned that the cellar wall was likely to be 
load bearing, and therefore  some expert  guidance  was required before access through it was begun. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs W in that they just want their broken drain  to be repaired, and they 
thought that was what  their policy would provide. However for the reasons Ive set out, I think  what is 
covered by the policy is limited.
I think  Aviva is entitled  to say that for the protection of its engineers, a structural  survey is needed to 
establish how access to the broken drain  can safely be made, and that Mr and Mrs W must pay for 
this. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mr and Mrs W or from Aviva by 5 July 2019, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6312118