K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited declined  a claim made under 
a term assurance policy and returned  his policy premiums.  
background
In April 2009 Mr B applied for a mortgage term assurance policy with L&G through  an IFA. 
The policy started  on 6 June 2009 and was due to run for seventeen years with Mr B paying 
a £49.75 premium  every  month.
L&Gs application asked  the following question;
In the last 5 years have  you had medical advice for any of the following; 
Chest pain, irregular  heart  beat,  raised  blood  pressure,  raised  cholesterol,  or condition
affecting your veins, for example palpitations, deep  vein thrombosis?
Mr B answered yes to the above question  but in relation  to another  condition.  He was then 
asked;
Have you another condition (Chest  pain etc.) to disclose  under this heading?
Mr B answered no to this question. 
Unfortunately Mr B had to make a claim under his policy  in July 2018. L&G reviewed the 
claim. During a conversation with Mr B he mentioned his raised  blood  pressure.  L&G wasnt  
aware of his raised blood pressure as it wasnt on the application form. So it wrote to Mr Bs 
GP for further information. The GP then provided information about  a high blood pressure 
reading in May 2009. And that Mr B had high blood  pressure from 2006 which he was 
prescribed medication for until 2008. After reviewing the claim further, L&G decided  to reject  
the claim and refund  his premiums in its letter  dated 6 December 2018. 
Mr B was unhappy with this decision  so he made  a complaint. L&G reviewed the complaint 
and issued a final response  dated  30 January 2019. It said it wrote to Cs GP to obtain 
more information  about his prostate when  he applied for the policy. It didnt  ask about his 
cholesterol because  Mr B had said the last check he had four years  prior was normal.  
But L&G felt Mr B shouldve made  it aware he had taken medication  for high blood pressure 
in the past when he applied for the policy. And if he had it wouldve written  to Mr Bs GP 
asking for more information  about this. It feels it wouldve then seen Mr Bs high blood  
pressure reading  on 11 May 2009.  As a result it says it wouldnt have insured him. 
L&G says it followed the Association of British  Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice for 
Misrepresentation and Treating  Customers Fairly. It says Mr B deliberately failed to tell it 
about his medical  history.  It feels he shouldve disclosed the information and failed to review 
his answers and amend them on 8 May and 21 May 2009 as the policy  was still being 
underwritten at this time. So it said its decision to cancel the policy and refund the premiums 
was fair. 
Mr B remained unhappy  so he brought his complaint to this service. He believes he 
innocently misrepresented his medical information.  He said he disclosed his medical 
information to his IFA. He also said he didnt think he had to disclose the higher blood 
Ref: DRN62711952pressure reading  on 11 May 2009  as this wasnt what  he went to his GP for and he thought 
his policy  had already started  as the first premium had already been taken. He feels L&G 
should pay the claim with 8% simple interest and offer an apology  and compensation for the 
way it has handled  the matter. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint. He felt L&G had unfairly declined and voided  the 
policy. He said although Mr B hadnt  disclosed the correct medical information about  his 
historical blood pressure this wasnt done deliberately. He also didnt  think  L&G had shown it 
wouldve done anything  differently if it had known about Mr Bs blood pressure history.  And it 
was more likely than not Mr Bs GP wouldve provided the blood pressure readings and 
medical information before 11 May 2009. So L&G wouldnt have seen the higher reading 
when underwriting  the policy. He added that he felt it wasnt  unreasonable  for Mr B not to 
make L&G aware of his high blood  pressure reading  on 11 May 2009 as the reading was at 
odds with his previous  ones.  
Our investigator said that he could understand why Mr B was upset  at being accused by 
L&G of deliberately not giving this information to L&G. He added that because  he had some 
financial issues to deal with and borrow money  from a family member, L&G should pay him 
£500 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
L&G didnt agree. It said Mr B was worried about cardio-vascular disease  (CVD) at the time 
he had his appointment on 11 May 2009. It said Mr B was asked to take home readings of 
his blood pressure and blood  tests were ordered.  It didnt  think the GP was unconcerned 
about his health and Mr B shouldve made it aware  of the high reading.  It added that it isnt 
clear whether his blood pressure reading was taken because Mr B had mentioned  he was 
worried about CVD. And Mr B had an appointment on 13 July 2009  in relation to CVD  which  
suggests he did have  a concern about his health  which he shouldve made it aware  of. L&G 
felt Mr B had another opportunity to declare his history and his subsequent high blood 
pressure reading  when he signed his policy confirmation of information  declaration  on 
21 May 2009. But failed to do so. 
L&G did review the complaint  and offered to accept that Mr B was careless when applying 
for the policy. It said it would consider the claim on a proportionate  basis. It agreed to add 
8% simple  interest to any settlement figure and the £500 trouble and upset. 
Our investigator then asked L&G what questions it wouldve asked both Mr B and/or his GP 
if it had known about his blood  pressure in the application form. L&G said it wouldve asked  
the GP for a targeted report to get more information. After considering this information  our 
investigator felt the GP wouldve responded to this report  before the high blood  pressure 
reading on 11 May 2009. And he said as Mr B thought he had disclosed high blood pressure 
in his application he wouldnt have then let L&G know of the high reading  as this condition  
wouldve already  been disclosed.  He added that L&Gs forms and confirmation of information  
declaration only ask for information that hasnt already been provided. 
L&G responded to say Mr B was under a continuing  duty of disclosure and his medical 
disclosures had changed after 11 May 2009 because he was told to have a blood  test. And 
this shouldve been mentioned on his confirmation of information declaration form he signed 
on 21 May 2009. 
So this complaint has now been  passed  to me for a final decision.   
Ref: DRN62711953my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ill 
explain why below. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, I have  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more  likely than not to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances. 
The main  issue for me to consider  is did Mr B fail to disclose his medical  history  in relation to 
his blood pressure. Also was it reasonable for him to not make L&G aware  of the blood  
pressure reading  his GP took on 11 May 2019 and the blood test that was requested during 
that appointment. 
Did Mr B misrepresent his health  when applying for the policy?
As the sale of this policy was in 2009  I have considered the Association of British Insurers  
(ABI) Code on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly (the Code). 
Both sides appear to agree that there  was a misrepresentation here. So Ive considered  
whether Mr Bs misrepresentation was innocent,  careless or deliberate  or reckless. In order  
to ask L&G to pay the claim in full I would need to be satisfied Mr B had innocently  
misrepresented when applying for this policy. 
Mr B applied for the policy through an IFA. He said he disclosed his medical history in 
relation to his blood pressure to two different  IFAs at the time and decided to go with the 
quote from L&G. Having  considered the evidence, Im satisfied Mr B  on balance  did 
provide the necessary information to the IFAs. Its clear  from the application form some 
information was provided to L&G.  And Im persuaded  by the information  Mr B provided  from 
the other IFA which shows he did provide his medical information. Ive also considered  the 
fact that Mr B didnt  try and hide any of the information in question here when he made the 
claim. He willingly told L&G about his blood pressure and was honest and reasonable. 
Im satisfied Mr B  on balance  acted honestly  and reasonably when applying for the 
policy. So I believe this was an innocent misrepresentation. 
Should Mr B have told L&G about his high blood pressure and blood test in May 2009?
I note the underwriter for L&G has said that if it had known about Mr Bs blood pressure 
history it wouldve offered cover as standard. L&G says if it had known about  the raised 
reading after the application  it wouldve initially declined critical illness cover.  
Ive considered the timeframe that events  unfolded  here. And I agree with the investigator 
that if L&G had been made aware of Mr Bs medical  history it wouldve asked for more  
details from the GP in the target report it sent in April 2009.  According to L&G this was 
received back on 8 May 2009 which is before the high reading it said wouldve led it to 
decline cover. Im satisfied  on balance - that L&G asking  for more information wouldnt 
have delayed the return of the targeted report as this information  isnt an unusual  request for 
a GP to deal with. So I dont think its likely  the higher reading wouldve been  sent in this 
targeted report. 
Ref: DRN62711954The policy was still being underwritten when Mr B saw his GP for a pain in his leg. So I need 
to consider whether he shouldve told L&G about the events  that took place here.  I agree  
with the investigator  that Mr B was under  the impression he had already disclosed  his blood 
pressure history on his application form. I note Mr Bs GP has said in 2018 the reading was 
out of sync with the previous lower readings. And Mr B was under the impression information 
about his blood pressure  had already  been provided  by his IFA. With this in mind, I dont 
think a reasonable  person wouldve told L&G about  the blood pressure reading. So I can 
understand why he didnt  feel he needed  to make L&G aware of it. 
L&G argues  the confirmation of information  declaration shouldve prompted  Mr B to make it 
aware of the blood test. But I dont agree. Ive considered the GPs notes from the 
appointment. The note says his blood  pressure reading was high so Mr B had to check his 
home readings and get bloods to be reviewed.  So I believe - on balance  the blood test 
requested was in relation to Mr Bs high blood pressure. The declaration asked Mr B if he 
had anything to declare  which hadnt  already been disclosed. Although his blood pressure 
history was missing from the form he signed,  he understandably  - in my opinion  thought 
his blood pressure history had already been provided by his IFA. So - Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for him not to think L&G also needed to be aware  of the blood  test and higher 
reading when  reviewing the form. 
L&G has apologised for not calling Mr B back while it was investigating this issue.  I also note 
it has already paid Mr B the £500  for the trouble  and upset it caused. I think  this is a fair and 
reasonable offer in the circumstances  and takes into consideration what Mr B has had to do 
with his finances since he made  his claim and the service he has received. Im not going to 
ask it to do anything  further in relation to the service Mr B has received. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was innocent.  So  L&G should pay the claim 
in full and add 8% simple  interest to this figure.  It can deduct from this sum the proportionate  
settlement figure it has already paid Mr B. 
Ref: DRN62711955my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Legal and General Assurance  Society  
Limited should;
1.Pay the claim in full. 
2.It should add 8% simple* interest  per year to this amount from the date of the claim to 
the date of settlement. 
3.Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited can deduct  the amount it has already 
paid to Mr B from the total amount set out in points 1 and 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to take off 
tax from this interest. Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  must  give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. He may then be able to 
reclaim the tax from the tax authorities  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.  
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6271195