K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains as a director of S, a limited company, that Amtrust Europe Limited refused to 
cover a claim on its professional indemnity insurance policy.
background
Mr T is a director of S, a company that provides financial advice to its clients. In October 
2014 S received a complaint from a client about a self-invested personal pension (SIPP)  that 
S had arranged for him in 2010. The client said hed been wrongly advised by S to transfer 
his pension into the SIPP so that he could invest funds into an overseas  property  
development. The investment had performed badly and the client  was seeking 
compensation from S.
S had professional indemnity insurance with Amtrust to cover claims like this and made  a 
claim on the policy. But Amtrust refused to cover  the claim.
Amtrust said that when  renewing the policy, S had failed to disclose the fact that it provided 
services involving investments into high risk unregulated collective investment schemes  
(UCIS).
S said it had only arranged for the SIPP to be set up for the client and hadnt given him 
advice on the investment  itself, and the information  it provided  about this when renewing the 
policy was correct. Amtrust didnt agree; it said S hadnt answered  the questions  on the 
proposal form correctly and had mispresented its business. And it said if S had provided  the 
right information it would either have refused to provide cover at all, or would have offered 
the policy on different  terms.
Amtrust said it was entitled  to void the policy (treat it as if the policy  hadnt  been issued) but 
decided not to do this  it would simply refuse  to cover this claim.
When Mr T brought the complaint to this service, our adjudicator  didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said S had a duty to disclose  its potential exposure to claims regarding the UCIS 
 there  were  clear  risks in the services it had provided to the client. And, as S hadnt 
disclosed this information, he thought  Amtrust was entitled to refuse the claim.
Mr T requested an ombudsmans decision. On behalf of S, he said:
The two relevant questions on the proposal form were linked; in answer to the first 
question they correctly said they had undertaken work on SIPPs, and on second  they 
correctly said they had undertaken some other work on esoteric investments.
They didnt give advice on the investment itself, so didnt have to disclose that.
Although the proposal form said that they should ask if they were unsure about  any 
of the questions, they didnt do so because they werent unsure of anything.
When they renewed the policy  in 2015  they were specifically asked if SIPP funds had 
been invested in a UCIS  its significant that the proposal  form had changed  
because the previous  form hadnt  produced the information the insurers wanted.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2018. In the provisional decision 
I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
Under the law in force at the time when  S renewed its policy in 20141  both the customer and 
the insurer had a duty of utmost good faith.  The insured  party  in this case, S  was 
Ref: DRN60555792required to disclose every  circumstance they knew, or should have known, which would  
influence a prudent insurer in deciding whether to underwrite a risk or what premium to 
charge. If the insured party fails to disclose this kind of circumstance, the insurer  is entitled  
to void the policy,  even if the insured party had made an honest  mistake.
The proposal form itself said it was essential  there was full disclosure of anything that could 
affect the risk being covered, and
- Any material fact must  be disclosed to Insurers.
- A material fact is any information  which may affect the judgment  of an insurer in 
assessing a risk
If you are unsure whether a fact or change is material or not, you should  disclose  it 
Failure to provide all material facts may lead to a claim or potential claim not being 
covered by the policy and may cause  the contract of insurance  to be void
The terms also say that if Amtrust is entitled  to void the policy due to inaccurate or 
misleading information being provided in the proposal form or at any other time, it may 
instead allow the policy to continue, but choose not to cover any claim that happens  as a 
result of something that should have been disclosed.
The proposal form was the method by which Amtrust could gather all the relevant 
information about S to allow it assess the risk and decide what cover  to provide (and at what  
cost). S had a duty to disclose to Amtrust anything which might affect the insurers  judgment  
about the risk being covered. And if S didnt provide all the relevant information, that affected 
Amtrusts ability to decide what cover  to offer.
Amongst other things, the proposal  form asked S whether it had ever:
-undertaken work relating to certain  categories, which  included  SIPPs;  or
-provided advice  or services relating to UCIS  investments  or investments where  there 
was a concentration of commercial property.
I think its clear  from this that Amtrust wanted  to know about work  S had done relating to
SIPPs and to the sort of investment this particular client had taken out through  his SIPP. But
S didnt  disclose this information.
Mr T says this is correct, because S didnt give advice to its customer about  the actual 
investment; it simply arranged the SIPP. My view is that, even if S hadnt  advised on the 
actual investment, it had undertaken work relating to it and provided  a service that related to 
an investment in a UCIS, which involved commercial property. This is because  the client  was 
transferring his pension into the SIPP for the purpose of investing in the UCIS (where the 
underlying investment was commercial property), and S knew  this was the clients intention.
In addition to this, in 2013  the regulator had issued an alert about SIPP schemes  where the 
underlying investment is in an overseas property of precisely the type of investment  Ss 
client had. And the regulator said even if advisers thought they were simply setting up the 
SIPP, they couldnt ignore  the nature of the underlying investment.
So S was well aware (or should  have been  aware) that this was a high risk, speculative  
investment, in relation to which the regulator  had issued warnings.
1 The Marine  Insurance Act 1906
Ref: DRN60555793Mr T says the two questions were  linked. But there  are differences  in the questions.  One 
asks about work in specific  categories, including SIPPs. The other  asks about advice or 
services concerning certain  types  of investments.  And one asks about work within the last 
six years, while the other asks whether they have ever provided the relevant advice or 
services.
In any event, the second question was clear, so S should have disclosed the work  on these 
investments. If S didnt receive any income from the investments, it could have put 0% in the 
income column. Then  the answers would have been  consistent. And if S was unsure about 
how to deal with this due to the note about  percentages needing  to add up, they could have 
asked.
Finally, Mr T says its significant that the later proposal form changed because  the previous 
form hadnt produced  the information the insurers wanted. But as Ive explained,  I think  the 
questions in the 2014 proposal were clear  and S should have provided information about  
these investments.
Taking into account the specific  questions in the proposal form, the warnings in that form 
about disclosing  information relevant to the insurers assessment of risk, and the wider  legal  
duty S had to disclose anything that would influence the insurers  decision about offering 
cover, my judgment is that this is something S should have disclosed.  By not telling Amtrust  
about this, S mispresented the risk Amtrust was taking on and failed  to meet  its legal duty of 
utmost good  faith.  I think it was fair and reasonable to expect S to disclose this, so that 
Amtrust could assess the risk it was taking on properly.
Amtrust has confirmed that if this information had been disclosed, its underwriters would 
have either  refused cover at all or offered  different terms. The policy terms say that in these 
circumstances it has the right to void the policy or may choose to continue it, but without 
covering any claims relating to the misrepresentation. Thats  what  is has done  here  the 
policy continued but Amtrust said it wouldnt  pay this claim (or any other claims that 
concerned this issue).
Taking account of the relevant law, the policy  terms and all the circumstances,  I think 
Amtrusts decision  was fair.
developments 
Both parties  replied to the provisional  decision. Amtrust had nothing further to add, but Mr T 
provided further comments on behalf  of S. As these are quite detailed, I have summarised 
some of the key points:
The two questions on the proposal form did ask different things, but they were 
nevertheless related   the second question sought  a breakdown of the esoteric  
investments line in the first question.
The first question asked whether, over the last six years, they had undertaken work 
in the listed categories. They correctly identified that they had undertaken work in 
setting up SIPPS  for which they received payment. They also indicated that theyd 
undertaken work in esoteric investments  as defined by the second question. But this 
work was advising on and setting up a small number  of regulated offshore bonds.
They didnt sell or advise on the underlying investment in the SIPP;  they received no 
payment in respect of this, which shows they didnt  carry  out any work on this.
If Amtrust  wanted to know  about  the investments into the SIPPs  it could have asked 
a question about this  as it did for esoteric  investments  but it didnt.
Ref: DRN60555794There was a question  about this the following year. They  think  that change  is 
significant.
If they had thought  they would in any way be held responsible  for the investment into 
the SIPPS, they would  have disclosed it. With hindsight, its now clear they are being  
held responsible for this, but at the time they didnt  anticipate that.
The approach  taken in the provisional  decision is overly  legalistic and goes  against  
the ombudsman  services own guidance. That guidance says the ombudsman  will 
consider whether a consumer took reasonable care when answering  questions put to 
them, and if they did take reasonable care, the insurer should ignore  the 
misrepresentation. The provisional decision hasnt  said they failed to take reasonable 
care or that any misrepresentation  made  was deliberate  or reckless.
The questions posed by Amtrust  were  not clear.  On the basis  of the ombudsmans 
guidance, its reasonable to conclude they took reasonable care and any 
misrepresentation was innocent.
Amtrust subsequently  provided further  comments from the underwriter, who has explained  
that: 
If they had been aware of the exposure to this type of investment, they would  not 
have renewed  this policy.
They have always taken a very cautious  approach to financial advisers  who have 
been involved with these investments, and have never knowingly insured any clients  
who have this exposure. The proposal form asks the client to disclose any 
involvement with regards to UCIS, other unregulated products, insolvent or 
suspended funds so they can underwrite risks appropriately.
This has been discussed with other  members  of the underwriting team who have 
confirmed they would  not have renewed  the policy had they been  made  aware of the 
nature of the investments  involved.
After considering the additional comments I explained to both parties that I wasnt minded to 
change my provisional decision,  because:
Even if the questions  were connected, they asked  different things  the first asked 
about work relating to certain  categories, including SIPPs, the second question asked 
about relevant  advice  or services. This was a clear question and I thought S should 
have disclosed the work on the SIPPs.
The guidance on misrepresentation S referred  to relates to consumers and S is a 
business. 
Amtrust had explained in its final response to S that, had they been aware of the 
investments, the underwriter would either  have  not covered the risk at all, or would 
only have done on very different  terms and the further comments from the 
underwriter confirmed  this.
In reply to this, Mr T  on behalf of S  said:
S never sold or advised on the investments; they only arranged  the SIPP  wrapper. 
He agrees that the two questions  on the proposal form ask different things,  and that 
S carried out work on SIPPs  which was disclosed. The second  question is the 
detailed breakdown of the esoteric investments line in the first question. It is not 
asking about the investments that may have been made in a SIPP. The product was 
designed to enable a client to make  their own investments, without advice, into their 
pension scheme.
I have suggested  they should  have considered the investment to be separate from 
the SIPP arrangement and therefore disclosed under the esoteric line in the first 
Ref: DRN60555795question and also under  UCIS in the second  question. They answered yes to the 
esoteric line in the first question because S had advised on offshore bonds. They 
never gave  advice on or sold the investments in question. It is just that the FCAs 
guidance issued  some three years after the incidents says they should have. 
He does not think S could have disclosed something they didnt actually do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  Ill explain  why.
Ive considered what Mr T says about  the two questions being linked. Even if they were 
connected, they nevertheless ask different things.
The first question asked  if they had undertaken  work  in certain categories,  including  SIPPs. I 
note what Mr T says about this, but in my judgment T did carry out work relating to this. Even 
if it wasnt giving advice  on the investments, or being paid, arranging a SIPP  is carrying out 
work  and S accepts this. 
The second  question asked whether S had ever provided advice or services with regard to 
particular types  of investment. In my view, arranging a SIPP so that the SIPP  funds can be 
invested in a UCIS is providing a service  with regard to the UCIS. The question  was clear, so 
they should have disclosed the work  on the SIPPs.  If they didnt receive any income from 
the investments  (as opposed to the SIPPs themselves), they could have put 0% in the 
income column and the answers to the two questions  would have  been  consistent.  And if 
they were unsure about how to treat the work  in light of the note about percentages needing 
to add up, they could have asked or added a clarification note.  
I dont think the change in the questions the following year is significant. As Ive explained, in 
my view the questions asked at the time were  clear. And Im satisfied S was  or should  
reasonably have been  aware this was a high risk, speculative investment, in relation to 
which the regulator had issued warnings. So it was something that should  have  been  
disclosed.
Mr T says the provisional decision is overly  legalistic and has referred to our guidance on 
misrepresentation. The guidance  he refers  to relates  to consumers. In this case, S isnt a 
consumer  its a business. And so the law that applies is different. For a commercial 
contract like the one S had, the relevant law is the Marine Insurance Act. This required S to 
act in utmost good faith and disclose anything that would influence  the insurers decision
 and the warnings  in the proposal form reinforced  the fact that S had to disclose any 
information relevant  to the insurers assessment of risk. In any event, where an insurer asks 
a clear question and the policyholder doesnt  disclose  something which  would have led the 
insurer to decline cover, we are unlikely to uphold the complaint. And the comments from the 
underwriters show Amtrust would not have provided  cover for this if it had been aware of the 
nature of the investments  involved.
I appreciate that this is a serious matter  for S and Im conscious of the impact my decision 
may have.  Ive considered it very carefully, taking into account  the relevant law, the policy  
terms and all the circumstances  of the case.  And having done  so, its still my view that 
Amtrusts decision  was reasonable.
Ref: DRN60555796my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject  my decision before 23 November 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6055579