K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited turned down  his claim under his 
gadget policy on the grounds  that hed provided  it with false  information.  
background
Mr A has a gadget policy with Assurant, linked to his bank account. In August 2018  Mr A told 
Assurant that hed lost two mobile phones  an Apple iPhone  (with accessories) and a 
Samsung S9. He said hed not had SIM cards in either phone,  which were both new.  Hed 
got the Samsung in July 2018 and the iPhone  in August 2018, the day before hed lost it. 
Assurant looked  into the losses as a single claim,  as the phones had been lost at the same 
time. It asked Mr A for some information,  including proof of purchase and proof of ownership.  
Mr A sent information as requested.
Assurant then turned down the claim. It said the network provider for the Samsung  had told 
Assurant that the proof of usage  document was not valid and the content  had been 
manipulated. This placed doubt  on the validity of the claims. Assurant quoted  its policy terms 
which said that if false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is identified then it 
would not honour  the claim and would cancel the policy. Assurant  said it would reconsider 
the claim if Mr A could give evidence the network provider had made  an error, but offered no 
guarantee its decision would change.
Mr A came to us, concerned that the Samsung network provider had made  an error. And 
that turned out to be the case. The Samsung  network provider told Assurant that the letter 
Mr A had sent to it was, in fact, genuine.  So we asked Assurant to reconsider the claim.  
Assurant said that it still wouldnt pay the claim. It said it had already discussed with Mr A its 
concerns about  the Apple  iPhone.  The information  it had received was that the iPhone had 
been replaced due to a power issue on 13 September 2018. It said that an exchange could  
happen only when  someone knows the unlock code or has proof of purchase.  So it said that 
only Mr A or a person known to him could have  replaced the phone. Assurant also referred 
to a webchat between Mr A and the iPhone network provider which  it said showed the 
iPhone had been replaced.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint given the concerns about  the replacement  of the 
iPhone. Mr A didnt  accept this, pointing out that the iPhone had been so new that hed not 
set up any security codes on it. So the complaint came to me for review. 
developments
I asked our investigator to go back to Assurant with some questions about the replacement  
of the iPhone. Assurant has maintained that it Mr A must have replaced it, and raised some 
other concerns about the security of the phones.
We put it to Assurant that it should reconsider Mr As claim and give him its decision based  
on an assessment of all the evidence. Assurant  doesnt agree as it had already discussed  
concerns about  the replacement of the iPhone with Mr A before it issued its final response  
letter. 
Ref: DRN61246392my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Assurants comments but I still think the fair outcome to this complaint is 
for Assurant  to reassess Mr As claim for the loss of the two phones and to give him its 
decision in writing. I say this because:
Assurant issued a final response letter to Mr A saying  that if he could show  the Samsung 
proof of usage information was valid then it would reconsider  his claim. It said this wouldnt 
necessarily change its decision  but that it would  reconsider his claim.
There has been an exchange of correspondence  since Samsung confirmed that the 
evidence Mr A had provided  was, in fact, genuine. But I consider its fair for Assurant now to 
go back and look at all the evidence again  and let him know  its decision on his claim.
I dont think its enough for Assurant  to say it discussed the replacement of the iPhone  with 
Mr A during  the original claim assessment. It didnt refer to those concerns in its final 
response letter. And its now raising  many additional points which  werent mentioned in its 
final response letter. 
So to be clear Im not saying that Assurant must pay Mr As claim.  But its only fair that 
Assurant should  reassess  the claim based on all the evidence.  If its decision is still not to 
pay it then it must give Mr A the reasons for its claim decision in writing  so he can 
understand its decision. If Mr A is not happy with the outcome then he can refer his concerns 
to us as a fresh complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I require Assurant General Insurance  Limited to reassess 
Mr As claim for the loss of the two phones and to give him the reasons for its decision in 
writing. If hes not happy with the outcome he can refer his concerns to us as a fresh 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6124639