K821x#15complaint
Ms T has complained that Ultimate Insurance Solutions Limited (Ultimate) mis-sold her a pet 
insurance policy.
background
Ultimate is a broker so its responsible for the sale of policies but it doesn't  underwrite them. 
That is the role of the insurer which  is a different business. 
In 2014 Ms T was looking  online  for a lifetime pet policy for two puppies,  from the litter of her 
other dog, and saw the policy sold by Ultimate. She rang it to query the policys  benefits and 
limits. Ultimate explained that the policy had a £2,000 vets treatment limit per condition  per 
policy year.  Ms T bought  two separate policies for her two puppies. But Im only looking at 
the sale of one of those  policies in this decision.
In 2018 one of Ms Ts dogs needed surgery for a ligament problem. She claimed for the 
costs. The insurer only paid part of the claim. It said that the ligament treatment the dog 
needed fell under an "inner limit of £500.  So it reduced its payment  by roughly £133. Ms T 
complained. Ultimate agreed that it hadn't told Ms T about the inner limit when she took out 
the policy. But it said that she had received that information after she bought  the policy  and 
when it renewed.
Ms T brought her complaint to us. Our investigator  didn't think  that Ultimate had provided 
enough information when it sold the policy. And she said that if it had Ms T wouldn't  have 
bought it. So she thought  that Ultimate should  pay the rest of Ms Ts claim and add simple 
interest to that sum. She added that Ultimate  should  step into the shoes of the insurer and 
indemnify Ms T up to the £2,000 vets treatment  limit should the dog need treatment for a 
ligament issue restricted  by the inner limit in the future.
Ultimate didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
In response to Ms Ts complaint Ultimate agreed that its call handler should  have  told Ms T 
about the policys inner limits during the initial sales call. So its not in dispute that it didn't 
provide all the information it should  have.
Ultimates said that information about the policys inner limits was available on its website 
when Ms T was looking to buy the policy. That might be the case but Ms T called Ultimate 
specifically to ask for clarification about the policys £2,000 limit. And she commented that a 
prospective policyholder  had to be so careful  with these policies  during  that call. So I think 
that Ms T phoned  Ultimate to try to make sure she understood the policys  limits. But 
Ultimate didn't give her all the information  she needed at that time, when that was clearly 
important to her. So I dont think Ultimate gave Ms T enough  information  with which to make 
an informed decision about  whether  or not that policy was suitable  for her at that time. So I 
agree Ultimate mis-sold it.
Ref: DRN63673392Ultimates said that the inner limits were  set out in the policy documents. But I think  Ms T 
should have been able to rely on the information  it gave her over the phone,  as thats  clearly  
why she rang it. Also,  the policy documents themselves are occasionally  confusing.  For 
example, theres  a table setting out the policys benefits. But the table is misaligned  so the 
row thats  supposed  to show an inner limit of £500  for the ligament treatment actually 
appears to show a benefit limit of none. So the reader might think  that no such limit applies.
Ultimates added that, when the policy renewed it again set out the details of the inner limits  
of the policy. I agree  that some  of these documents are clearer than others. But in the 2015 
policy schedule the table showing the policy limits  only shows  one figure  for the benefit  limit 
of vets fees, and thats £2,000. The schedule  does refer to the £500 inner limit, but this isn't 
shown in the benefit limit column of the table but is instead shown under the heading of 
cover provided. So I don't  think  its clear.
Also Ms Ts explained that because she had made claims for treatment for her dog, if shed 
looked for a different policy, her dog wouldn't have been covered for any pre-existing 
condition. So I can understand why she wouldn't have gone looking for another policy  even if 
shed identified this inner limit which  Ultimate hadn't pointed out at the point of sale.
Ms T said that she wouldn't have  bought  the policy in the first place  if Ultimate  had made  the 
inner limit clear. Its possible that shes reached  that conclusion  with the benefit of hindsight.  
But if Ultimate had given  her enough information to make an informed decision then she 
wouldn't be in this position now. Ms Ts explained that she had a different policy from 
another insurer for another  dog not covered  by the policies Ultimate  sold. And if shed known 
about the inner limit she would have taken  other  policies from the insurer who provided the 
policy for her older dog. So on balance I think she wouldn't  have  bought the policy  from 
Ultimate if it had told her about  the inner limits.  Instead I think shed have bought a policy 
without such an inner limit.
So I think its fair that Ultimate should  try to put Ms T back  into the position she would have  
enjoyed if it hadn't mis-sold the policy. Therefore, I think it should pay the shortfall of her 
claim for her dogs ligament treatment. It should  add simple  interest to that amount at a rate 
of 8% a year. Also,  if Ms T needs to make  a ligament treatment claim - caught by the policys  
inner limit - in the future, it should  step into the shoes  of the insurer  and cover Ms Ts claim 
for any amount  over the inner limit of £500 and up to a limit of £2,000. It should provide that 
cover for each year Ms T renews her current policy for the dog concerned. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Ultimate Insurance Solutions 
Limited to:
Pay the shortfall of Ms Ts existing claim for the treatment  of her dogs ligament 
issue. It should add simple interest  to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date of 
claim to the date it makes  payment1.
Make  up the shortfall of any future  claim for the ligament issue between  the inner 
limit amounts covered by the insurer up to the £2,000 treatment limit for other  claims.
1 If Ultimate considers  that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms T how much its taken off. It should also give Ms T a certificate showing  this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN63673393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6367339