K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt investigate his claim that a payment from his 
account was fraudulent.
background
Mr D contacted Lloyds  about a payment of £3.80  from his account made at 23:16 on 30 
March 2019. He says he doesnt recognise  this. He is vulnerable and says he found it 
difficult to talk to Lloyds about it. He didnt feel able to go into a branch to make a claim as 
Lloyds suggested.
Lloyds says that it couldnt  consider a claim for fraud unless  Mr D discussed it. And that it 
had suggested  ways to help him do so. The payment was made using chip and PIN. It 
wasnt going to refund it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. He said that:
-Hed spoken to Mr D in October 2019 about  this and by then Mr D couldnt  remember  
much about what happened  but thought  hed lost the card and asked for a 
replacement.
-Hed listened to calls Mr D had had with Lloyds after the payment and noted that     
Mr D had said hed lost his card in a nightclub and it had been returned by security 
staff. He still had the card when  he called Lloyds and had used it after the payment in 
question.
-There was no explanation for how someone  obtained both his card and PIN and the 
value of the payment wasnt typical of use by a fraudster.
-He thought that Lloyds had tried to make adjustments to help Mr D with his complaint 
and couldnt think  of anything else if could have  done.
Mr D didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if it wasnt authorised    
Mr D wouldnt  generally be responsible for it.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did Mr D authorise the payment?  
Ive looked at the available evidence about the way in which this payment was made.  The 
chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered. So Im satisfied that it was 
authenticated,
The real issue is whether or not Mr D consented to it. Im afraid much of that assessment 
needs to be based on what he says about  the circumstances  surrounding the payment. And 
Ref: DRN65316232unfortunately he doesnt remember  much  about that now. And when he did speak to Lloyds 
early in April 2019  he found it difficult to go through  it.
Ive listened to those calls. Mr D mentioned why hes vulnerable and in my view Lloyds took 
that into account. I heard Mr D say he was concerned that Lloyds would close  the complaint 
without looking into it. Lloyds said he would either need to speak  to the fraud  department or 
he could go into a branch. Mr D said he found being put on the spot difficult  and Lloyds said 
to him he could have  15 days to continue with his complaint.  And the fraud department  told 
him he had 13 months to report  a fraud. The person he spoke to also asked Mr D if there 
was anyone he knew who could  help him.
The only real investigation Lloyds could do was to speak to Mr D. So I dont find it acted 
unreasonably in making that request and offering him ways  to do so.
Im going  to need to make  my decision  based  on what  Mr D has been able to say about this. 
At the time he thought  hed lost his card in a nightclub and it was then returned  to him. The 
difficulty with that explanation  is how an unknown  third party  would have found out his PIN. 
The previous  genuine transaction when the PIN was used was six hours earlier. So even if 
hed been observed entering  his PIN then I dont think it likely  that a person would be able to 
later obtain  his card. 
And I also agree with our adjudicator that if a fraudster  had Mr Ds card and PIN that person 
would have been most likely to take as much  money from the account as quickly as 
possible. This was only a small  payment  and while of course  significant  for Mr D isnt one 
typical of a fraudster.
Having taken all this into account Im not persuaded that this payment was made without   
Mr Ds consent. So as I dont find it was unauthorised I dont have  a basis  to say that Lloyds 
should refund this to him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6531623