K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1991.  
background and summary to complaint
Unfortunately, neither  Mr and Mrs H or Lloyds have much information or copies  of 
documents from the time which might  have helped to establish what  happened.  
So Ive had to make some reasonable assumptions about the sale and the probable Lloyds 
policy rules which existed  in 1991. Ive based  my assumptions on some of the remaining 
computerised records Lloyds still has available, and the records  we have ourselves about  
the policy rules that existed at around that time period (if not relating exactly to the point of 
sale date). Ive also called upon  and used my considerable experience  of these types  of 
complaint  Ive seen  quite a few Lloyds  mortgage  sales from the 1990s with PPI policies 
attached and I have an understanding of the processes consumers  normally  went through.
Its not clear who was covered by the PPI, although  Mr and Mrs H seem  to think  they both 
were. And Im afraid Im also hampered by the main  points  of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint 
being, in my view,  somewhat inconsistent and unclear. I do understand why this could be - 
no doubt caused by how long ago all this was.
Nevertheless, it looks like Mr and Mrs H took out an initial joint mortgage in 1990 without any 
PPI attached. In 1991 they borrowed more money  and decided  to take out PPI 
encapsulating their new lending amount and also the initial  borrowing. We know it cost 
around £17 per month, but due to the time that has passed, neither party  can tell us much  
more.
As I say, we dont know if both Mr and Mrs H were  covered and neither can I say what for. 
But normally  these policies covered against accident, sickness,  and unemployment, and if 
claimed against successfully, the cover would have  met the mortgage repayments or part 
thereof for around a year.  
Mr H was a scaffolder and Mrs H worked  in retail. Mr H had no sick pay provision and I 
doubt whether  Mrs H would have had much either; so Ive considered this as part of my 
overall decision. They said they were  in good health at that point in time but reference  was 
also made to a disability  occurring  in the late 1990s.  It isnt particularly clear what  happened,  
but this post-dates the sale by some way, so it doesnt affect the point of sale 
circumstances although I understand  it will be of significance to Mr and Mrs H. Lloyds says 
the mortgage closed in 2004, but its unclear how long the PPI was in place.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
Ref: DRN69234742The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs H about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1991 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
Ref: DRN69234743complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs H with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN69234744-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. With such  little information from 
either party, this is hard for me to evidence. However, its fair, in my view, to make  an 
assumption that having first declined PPI (in 1990), Mr and Mrs H would have obviously 
known that it wasnt  something they needed to buy. So, by 1991 when they borrowed more 
money, its much more likely they had since decided it was something  they wanted  to have.
Theyve implied they were pressured into buying  the PPI. I understand this allegation, but 
theres simply no evidence of it, and as I say, they must  have been  able to see that PPI was 
optional rather than compulsory, having turned it down the year before.
Also, my general experience of these types of Lloyds sale - of which Ive seen many - is that 
the consumer(s) consent would have been  obtained  on both the mortgage  application and 
also by way of a separate PPI application  form. In this case, they would have needed  to add 
the new PPI costs to their outgoings  and sign a direct  debit  to transfer the monthly 
premiums from their bank account. I think they would have been sent or given something 
confirming the sale such as a policy schedule and/or  the policy rules. 
Clearly I cant  say for sure all this happened,  but taking everything  into account, I think  its 
more likely that it did. I think  Mr and Mrs H knew the policy was optional and they agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds conceded  that advice was probably provided during this sale.  This means it had to 
advise Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. It seems  Mr and Mrs H cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Hs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
Ref: DRN69234745to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether the policyholder(s)  would  have been  
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet their needs. With very little information available  for example, theres  nothing  
suggesting Lloyds  considered whether Mr or Mrs H had any pre-existing medical conditions.
In my experience, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
However, while Im not persuaded Lloyds  did all it should have  done  to make sure the policy  
was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-They probably both met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.  I cant  say both were 
definitely named  on the policy, but Mr and Mrs H say they were. Looking  at the 
salaries quoted  by them  for 1991,  they were probably both eligible for the PPI;
-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Hs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if they 
were not working  for an extended  period of time  even allowing for any other means  
they would  have been entitled to.
-Ive seen nothing  else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt  affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Hs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  They have not told us about  any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could affect  the ability  to claim and there were also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy may have included a requirement that the policyholder(s) be 
disabled or unemployed for 60 days before they could  make  a claim and would only 
pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim, it still provided valuable  
cover given:  i.e. Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, the fact the policy protected  the 
mortgage repayments relating to their home and the potential consequences should  
they be unable  to make  the repayments  on loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs H 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether 
Lloyds gave sufficient  information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual  cost or about 
the exclusions or limitations  before  Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN69234746Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was probably a suitable  recommendation  for Mr and Mrs H I cant  say 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds would have given  them all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Hs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs H suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy.  So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs H would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event. Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I 
Ref: DRN69234747should presume  this to be the case given the significant failings  identified  above. Ive 
considered the representations of both sides  and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the cost/benefit/limitations and 
exclusions may not have  been as clear as it should  have been.   
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs H applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs H would 
have been told the cost before the policy started, so if the costs were  significantly at odds 
with their expectations at the point of sale, its possible  they might have raised that with 
Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy. In 
addition, Im not persuaded Lloyds made clear exactly what  Mr and Mrs H would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Hs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy probably excluded claims relating  to certain medical conditions that they 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;
The policy probably contained limitations on claims relating to back  and mental 
health conditions  placing more  onerous  evidential requirements to support a claim on 
those grounds;
The policy probably limited, and in some  situations,  excluded  unemployment cover if 
the policyholder(s) wasnt / werent permanent employees;
The likely requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  the 
policyholder(s) be unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which  
their experience, education  or training reasonably qualified  them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN69234748I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  Limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in the sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from taking out the policy. 
But the limited  evidence we have about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale 
implies that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for them.  In my view both 
were eligible  for its benefits and it provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, 
couldve proved  valuable to them should  the insured risks have become a reality. I also 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  either  wouldve  been  caught by any of the significant 
exclusions  neither Mr or Mrs H had any pre-existing medical conditions,  as defined by the 
policy, and were in permanent employment. So, I still think  they had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if either of the policyholders 
were unable (through disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would 
be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they probably had limited other means  to fall back  on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs H be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if they were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs H would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Ref: DRN69234749Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1991  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN692347410and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6923474