K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Complete  Cover  Group  Ltds (CCG)  actions concerning the sale 
of a motor insurance  policy.
Reference to CCG includes its agents.
background
In 2018 CCG  sold Mr B a policy. Mr B renewed the policy through CCG in January 2019. In 
April 2019 Mr B rang CCG as hed sold his car and wanted to cancel his policy.  CCG told 
him that he still owed  around £780. But it later waived  a £75 cancellation fee and reduced 
the amount owing to around  £705.
Mr B didnt think that was fair. He said CCG hadnt  told him hed entered  into a finance 
agreement. He brought his complaint about that to us. Our investigator didnt think  CCG had 
done anything  wrong. Mr B didnt agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
CCG is an insurance broker.  That means  it sells policies  and might  help with their 
administration. But it doesnt actually insure the car. Instead the cover is provided by an 
insurer which is a separate business. Mr B also complained about the actions of the insurer.  
Weve looked  at that complaint under a separate  reference number, so I dont intend to 
comment on the insurers actions in this decision.
Mr B bought the policy over the phone. He also renewed by phone with CCG in 
January 2019.  And he again said he wanted to pay for his policy  in monthly instalments, as 
he had the year before. In that call CCG played Mr B a recorded message  that explained: 
If you should opt to pay your premium by monthly instalments the finance will be 
provided by [name of credit provider], who is a regulated  lender. They will advance 
the loan amount to us so we can pay your premium to the insurer. It is important to 
understand by taking  the monthly  instalment  option youre not entering  into a monthly  
insurance contract.
After playing the message  CCGs call handler  confirmed  that Mr B would pay his monthly 
instalments to the credit provider.
Also, when CCG sent Mr B his policy documents, it said in its covering letter:
Your payments have  been set up as 11 equal  instalments of £199.21 via a direct 
debit, bringing  your total payable to £2,191.33. This includes interest of 23.50%.  Full 
details of your credit  agreement will be sent to you by your credit provider, [name of 
credit provider].
So I think CCG did enough  to make it clear to Mr B that, by choosing to pay in instalments 
he was entering into a credit agreement. So I think CCG gave Mr B enough  information  from 
Ref: DRN69147532which to make an informed choice about whether he wanted  to pay by instalments or not. So 
I think it dealt with Mr B fairly. And I think its fair if CCG takes reasonable action to recover 
the amounts Mr B still owes for the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6914753