K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc closed his bank account without warning. Hes 
also unhappy that the bank couldnt re-open the account for him and with the way it dealt 
with this issue. Mr H asked Clydesdale  for £100  in compensation. 
background
Mr H had an account with Clydesdale. But in March 2019 the account  was closed by the 
bank. Mr H says it didnt  give him any warning that this would happen. When he spoke to 
Clydesdale it told him his account had been closed because it had been in excess of his 
agreed overdraft limit for several months.  
When Mr H complained, the bank said it had written  to him in October 2018 saying it may 
close his account  without further notice  if he didnt take action within  the following two 
months. Clydesdale explained to Mr H it couldnt re-open his bank account, nor could it open 
a new account  for him using his existing  details. 
But the bank did recognise that when Mr H spoke to its Financial Care  Team, it should have 
shown more empathy  to him. It offered him £25 compensation for this lack of empathy. Mr H 
wasnt happy with this as he wanted  £100. So he brought his complaint to us. 
One of investigators  looked into this complaint. He didnt think  Clydesdale needed to do, or 
pay, anything  more than the £25 it had already offered. Mr H didnt agree. He didnt think 
£25 was a fair or reasonable offer. As Mr H didnt  accept our investigators  view, his 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
I think the crux of Mr Hs complain is whether Clydesdale was entitled to close  his account 
and whether it gave  him notice of this. Ive looked  at the terms and conditions  for Mr Hs 
account. These state that the bank can close the account by giving him two months notice.  
So, Im satisfied Clydesdale  could close the account. 
Next, Ive looked at whether the bank actually gave Mr H the notice period required by the 
account terms and conditions. Ive looked at the letter Clydesdale sent to him dated 11 
October 2018. This states  that Mr H has an unplanned  overdraft  and needs  to act to avoid 
formal action being taken. It says, in bold, if he doesnt take action  within two months, his 
account could  be closed without further notice. 
I can see from Clydesdales records that it wrote to Mr H a further 22 times before his 
account was closed. These letters  asked  him to contact the bank to talk about  his overdraft 
and what help it could  give him to manage  his finances. 
All the letters, including the notice of closure  letter were sent to the address listed  on the bank 
mandate from when  Mr H opened his account.  Ive listened to several calls between  him and 
Clydesdale. On each  of these calls Mr H gives the same address as on these letters. 
Ref: DRN62462342I know Mr H says the bank didnt give him any warning about his account being closed. But 
Im satisfied Clydesdale did send him notice of closure, along with numerous  other  letters 
about his unplanned overdraft. I cant hold Clydesdale responsible  if Mr H didnt receive  the 
notice of closure or any of the subsequent letters, and so didnt contact  the bank. 
As Ive said above,  Im satisfied Clydesdale could close this account by giving Mr H two 
months notice. Having looked at the available evidence, Im satisfied  it did give him that 
notice. I accept that this caused problems for Mr H  and I do empathise with the situation he 
found himself in. But I dont think Clydesdale did anything wrong when it closed Mr Hs 
account. So Im not asking it to pay him any compensation for this. 
Mr H is also unhappy that Clydesdale couldnt  re-open his account or open  a new account 
using his existing  details. Its not for our service  to tell a bank what internal procedure  it 
should have to open or re-open an account. Thats a commercial decision for individual  
businesses to make. 
In any event, I can see that shortly after Mr Hs account was closed, he told Clydesdale he 
was going to open an account with another bank. He was no longer looking to have  a 
Clydesdale account  due to the issues hed had. 
So I dont  think that Clydesdale not being able to re-open his account, or being  able to use 
the same  details to open a new account,  materially  added to the upset Mr H naturally felt 
when his account was closed. 
Lastly, Ive thought about the way Mr H was spoken  to by Clydesdale  when  he was trying  to 
sort out this problem.  As Ive already  said, Ive listened to the calls between  him and the 
bank from that time. Im pleased to see that on one call in particular,  Clydesdale recognised  
the service it provided could have been  better. I agree with the bank that it could have shown 
more empathy to Mr H. But Im satisfied  that the £25 its already offered in compensation to 
him is a fair and reasonable  amount. 
To be clear, I dont think Clydesdale did anything wrong  when it closed Mr Hs bank account. 
Nor do I think it treated  him unfairly when it couldnt  re-open his account or use the same 
details to open a new account  for him. So I dont think Clydesdale needs  to pay Mr H 
anything at all for these issues. And, as above, I agree that the £25 its already offered in 
compensation for the poor service on one phone  call is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it for Mr H to decide if he 
now wants to accept  the £25 offered by Clydesdale Bank  Plc in full and final settlement 
of his complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.  
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6246234