K821x#15complaint
Mr S says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, in my provisional 
decision. It included  the following: 
HSBC sold Mr S the policy  in 1996 when  he applied for a credit  card.  It provided protection 
for his monthly card repayments in the event of disability and unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint  be upheld on the basis that Mr S was 
employed by someone in his family.  They said the terms for making a claim where the 
person claiming  was connected to the individual in control of the company werent clear. So 
our adjudicator thought this could have  made  it difficult for Mr S to claim and hed have 
been unlikely  to have  wanted the policy  if that had been made  clear  when he bought it.
HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said the policy wording had no restrictions  
for anyone connected to an individual within the company.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint as I dont think HSBC gave Mr S clear  
enough information about the policy, in particular what it would cost and the benefits  he 
stood to receive. I think better information  would have put him off buying  it. Ill explain why.
The adjudicator felt the terms  concerning  how Mr S would go about claiming given  his 
circumstances meant  he wouldnt have wanted  it. While  I can see Mr S was a managing 
director (MD) at his parents company, I cant see anything in the policy terms that would 
have stopped him from claiming or made  it more  difficult for him to do so as a result.  So I 
dont think the complaint  should be upheld on that basis.
On the other hand, Mr S has said hed have  been entitled to full sick pay for as long as he 
was off work. In the circumstances, it seems  plausible  to me that Mr S would have been 
entitled to very generous benefits.  That being  the case, I dont think hed have needed a 
significant element  of the policy  that is, disability cover. As such,  I dont think  hed have 
taken the policy out.
Im aware that, on the face of it, Mr S hasnt always been consistent about  his sick pay 
entitlement. I note for example that, in speaking to HSBC in making his complaint, he said 
hed have been entitled to at least statutory sick pay for as long as he was employed. 
However, he went on to qualify that statement  by saying  hed never actually had to use it as 
hed never  been  off sick. 
Either way, I believe Mr S would have been entitled to full pay for a significant period of time 
had he been off work sick. And even if he hadnt  been entitled to full pay indefinitely,  I 
Ref: DRN68116942believe Mr S when  he also says he had enough  savings to clear the card balance in full 
given hed been in steady  employment in his family business for over 30 years.  
Taking his sick pay into account,  either on its own or together with the savings he likely had, 
I believe Mr S had little or no need for the policy. So HSBC should  put things right for him.    
putting things right
HSBC should  put Mr S in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.HSBC should  find out how much Mr S would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
HSBC should  then refund the difference between  what Mr S owes and what he would 
have owed.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when HSBC works  out what Mr S would have owed each  month without PPI  Mr S 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, HSBC should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr S 
would have owed  HSBC something  on his credit card. The interest  rate should be and 
8% a year.
C.HSBC should  tell Mr S what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  my provisional decision is to uphold  the complaint. I intend  to require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right for Mr S as explained above.
I asked the parties  to reply with any further  comments or evidence  they might  have before I 
looked into the complaint again.
Both HSBC  and Mr S confirmed they had nothing  further to add to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mr S case.
Ref: DRN68116943Having done so, and bearing  in mind the parties responses to my provisional decision,  I see 
no reason to reach a different decision now.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold the complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank  Plc to 
put things right for Mr S as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6811694