K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the interest rate The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) charged on his 
buy-to-let mortgage.  Specifically,  he says the original mortgage offer was unclear, as he was 
under the impression the interest rate would vary in line with the Bank of England  base rate. 
He also thinks the interest  rate TMB  charged  was unfairly high.
background
Mr C took out a buy-to-let  mortgage with TMB in 2008. The mortgage was initially  on a 
tracker rate, which was 1.24% above the Bank of England base  rate. The mortgage offer 
shows that after 28 February 2010  the mortgage  would move  on to TMBs standard  variable 
rate (SVR), which was 7.44% at the time Mr C took out the mortgage.
In 2010, Mr Cs mortgage moved onto the SVR,  which was 4.84% at the time. Since then, 
the SVR increased  to 4.95% in 2011  and remained at this level until the mortgage was 
redeemed.
In 2016, Mr C complained  to TMB about  the interest  rate charged on his mortgage.  He 
complained that the mortgage  offer was unclear, and gave the impression that the SVR 
would vary in line with changes  to the Bank of England base  rate. TMB said the complaint 
had been made out of time, as Mr C took the mortgage out more than six years ago, and he 
ought to have been aware of a cause to complain about the mortgage  offer more  than three 
years ago.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service, but TMB  didnt give us consent to consider  it. Our 
investigator looked into things and explained  that he agreed the complaint about the wording 
of the mortgage  offer had been made  too late. He considered the exceptional circumstances 
Mr C told us about, but still didnt think we could  consider it. He did however explain that we 
could consider Mr Cs concerns about the SVR TMB have charged on his mortgage  and 
the fact he feels this has been  unfairly high. TMB  consented to us considering this second 
point of complaint.
When the investigator looked into the SVR that TMB had charged,  he explained that he 
didnt think this had been charged unfairly, and he didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr C 
disagreed with this. He said that he was trapped with TMB  as his property was in negative 
equity. He didnt  feel it was fair TMB were allowed to charge such a high interest  rate, and 
should have reduced this to ensure they were treating  their customers  fairly.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, so the complaints been passed to 
me to issue  a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the clarity  of the mortgage offer
Mr C has accepted that his complaint about the mortgage offer has been  made  out of time,  
and asked us to consider the parts of his complaints that we can look at. So I wont comment  
on his complaint about the wording of the mortgage offer.
Ref: DRN67204282the interest rate TMB charged
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Cs mortgage that he agreed to when he took it 
out. These explain that the lender may vary the standard variable rate, and they give a list of 
reasons for why the rate may be varied.  Theres nothing in the terms and conditions  of 
Mr Cs mortgage that suggest a change in the Bank of England  base rate would, or should, 
result in a change to the SVR that TMB charge.
Whilst I appreciate Mr C disagrees, theres also no indication  on any of the other  mortgage 
paperwork that the SVR would track the base  rate. The terms of the mortgage explain that 
the interest rate applicable is variable, and the bank set this rate. So whilst I appreciate  Mr C 
feels the interest rate hes paid has been  too high in comparison  to the Bank of England 
base rate, Im satisfied  TMB have charged interest  in line with the terms of Mr Cs mortgage, 
and were entitled to do so. 
Once Mr Cs tracker rate had ended in 2010, TMB had stopped offering other interest rate 
products to their customers. I understand that because of this, Mr C feels like he was trapped 
with TMB. But whilst he was paying the SVR, there were no Early Repayment Charges (ERC) 
payable if he wanted to redeem the mortgage and go elsewhere if he was able to find a more 
preferable rate with another lender. Mr C says this wasnt an option for him as the property was 
in negative equity. Im aware from what hes told us that he also had other financial difficulties 
due to his work, but whilst I appreciate things would have been difficult for him, I cant say this 
was as a result of anything TMB had done. So Im satisfied there were  no contractual  barriers 
preventing Mr C from redeeming his mortgage early if he wanted to. 
I understand Mr C feels that by setting the SVR how it did, TMB were treating him unfairly.  I 
appreciate that the interest rate may have seemed high in comparison to the Bank of 
England base rate at the time. But as Mr C has acknowledged, that is not a rate that is 
generally available for borrowing money.  So I dont find its a helpful comparison. Looking  at 
the standard variable rates charged across  the industry at the time, TMBs SVR was not 
significantly different to those charged  by other similar lenders.
 
Mr C has provided a lot of details about  his circumstances and the difficulties  hes faced over 
the years, both professionally and personally. Im genuinely  very sorry to hear what  hes 
been through. But whilst I empathise  with his situation, I dont  think  his troubles have been  
as a result  of the interest  rate charged  by TMB since his mortgage was on the SVR. Overall, 
whilst I appreciate Mr Cs unhappy with the interest rate he paid on his mortgage, Im not 
satisfied this was because TMB were  charging  their interest rate unfairly.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Kathryn Billings 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6720428