K820x#14Mr O complains that Santander UK plc closed his account and recorded a CIFAS marker 
against his name. CIFAS is the UKs  fraud alert service.  
background
On 23 July 2018 Mr O received a payment of £1,750 into his account. Later  the same  day he 
withdrew £1,600  of that money in cash at a Santander branch and shortly after that withdrew 
a further £100 at a cash machine. 
Santander blocked Mr Os online banking and he called to find out why. Santander asked 
about the transactions of the previous day. Initially, Mr O said the money  had been  
transferred to him so he could give it to someone.  He later said that he had borrowed the 
money and that he needed it for personal reasons. A few days  after that Mr O said he 
needed the money for a holiday. 
Santander wasnt happy with Mr Os explanation. It also identified  that the money was 
fraudulent  in the sense that it had been traced back to an account from which it has been 
taken without the customers authority. Mr O said he didnt know  that, but Santander  closed 
his account and registered the CIFAS marker. 
Mr O didnt think hed been treated fairly  and referred the matter to this service, where one of 
our investigators considered it. She concluded  however that, in closing Mr Os account  and 
placing the CIFAS marker against  Mr Os name, Santander  had not treated Mr O unfairly. Mr 
O didnt agree and asked  that an ombudsman review the case. He was particularly 
concerned about  the CIFAS  marker, which he says will prevent him from opening an account 
elsewhere. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
I accept that Santander was right to be concerned about the payment into Mr Os account, 
since it had been  traced  back to an unauthorised  transfer. So it was understandable  that it 
asked Mr O some questions about  it. 
Mr Os responses  to those questions were, however, inconsistent and, in my view,  not 
credible. And the only evidence he was able to provide were screenshots of the money  
being received  and then sent to his account. 
Im prepared to accept that Mr O may not have known  exactly  what was happening or what 
the exact source of the funds was. But in my view thats all the more reason for him to have 
questioned what  he was being asked  to do. And I believe that Santander was right to 
disbelieve him when he said that he was borrowing the money and that he needed it for a 
holiday. 
For these reasons, I dont  believe that Santander  treated  Mr O unfairly when it took the 
decision to close his account and register his details  with CIFAS. 
Ref: DRN60974122my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK plc to take any further steps  to resolve  
Mr Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr O to accept  or reject my decision before  18 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6097412