K820x#14complaint
Mrs G is unhappy because ReAssure  Limited  cancelled her policy and wont  reinstate it. 
background
Mrs G took out a Well Woman Plus  insurance  policy in 2005  with Reassure. For eight years 
she paid the premiums. One of the benefits  of the policy was that shed be entitled to a 
cashback refund of the premiums if shed  had the policy for 15 years.  
Unfortunately Mrs Gs circumstances changed in 2012. Shes  explained her husband lost his 
incapacity benefit which left them in severe financial hardship. They had to rely on 
foodbanks to feed their children and even sell their wedding rings to make ends meet.  She 
says she contacted ReAssure because their leaflets said they may be able to help if a 
customer was having problems paying.  Shes explained ReAssure werent  sympathetic  or 
helpful and the policy was cancelled  because she couldnt afford the premiums. 
The policy is now cancelled and cant be reinstated. Mrs G says she wasnt  told in writing  the 
policy had been  cancelled. Shed like ReAssure  to give her some  of the money she paid 
towards her premiums as a gesture of goodwill. Shes said shes willing to accept £700. 
ReAssure explained  it wasnt possible  to offer a payment holiday or a reduced premium.  
They said the policy could  only be reinstated  within 12 months  of the policy  benefits lapsing.  
So it wasnt  possible to reinstate the policy now. ReAssure said they did contact Mrs G is 
2013 to explain  this. And, as they didnt  receive  a response, its not possible to reinstate the 
policy.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she was satisfied ReAssure had tried to 
assist Mrs G and had provided a reasonable explanation for not offering a payment holiday 
or reduced  premiums. She also explained theyd  written to Mrs G explaining what would 
happen if the policy wasnt reinstated within 12 months of it lapsing. 
Mrs G didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to look at her complaint. She says ReAssures 
leaflets are misleading and that she was a good  customer for a long time. She also 
explained shed  not received a cancellation  letter and ReAssure didnt help her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has explained that this happened  at a time when she was experiencing financial 
hardship. I can see from the information shes  provided that she was having a very difficult  
time and I appreciate  how upsetting  and stressful  this must have been for her. However,  Im 
not upholding her complaint about  ReAssure.  I say that because: 
The leaflets Mrs G has referred  to say ReAssure may be able to help if a customer is 
having problems  paying. But I think the wording used makes it clear  this isnt 
guaranteed as it says, Let us know, we may be able to help. There  could be different 
options available to you, such as reducing your premium  or taking a short break  
Ref: DRN61561892Im satisfied  ReAssure looked into what they could  do to help when Mrs G contacted  
them, including changing the payment date. Theyve explained it wasnt  possible  to 
offer a payment holiday or reduced  premiums due to the type of policy  Mrs G had 
and its cost, which I think is a reasonable explanation
When Mrs G spoke to ReAssure  in December 2012 they told her if she missed too 
many premiums  the policy would be terminated  but shed have 13 months  to 
reinstate it. They also told her shed need to pay the arrears  and once the policy  
terminated she wouldnt have  cover.  In 2013 Mrs G missed  payments and ReAssure 
sent a letter  in July 2013 to say she was no longer receiving the policy cover and 
benefits. The letter explained she had 12 months to reinstate the policy  and what  she 
needed to do if she wanted to reinstate it. So I think ReAssure did tell Mrs G she 
wasnt covered by the policy  anymore
Mrs G wrote to ReAssure in September 2013  to explain she was experiencing 
financial difficulties and hadnt found  them to be very helpful. They responded 
outlining what Mrs G needed  to do if she wanted to reinstate  the policy, which  
included paying  the outstanding premiums. The letter also said shed need to do this 
within 12 months of the date of the first missed premium (which  was in June 2013). I 
think they explained to Mrs G what she needed to do if she still wanted the cover. 
And, as ReAssure didnt hear back from Mrs G, the policy  wasnt reinstated. So Im 
satisfied ReAssure have  treated  Mrs G fairly as I think  they explained what  shed 
need to do if she wanted to reinstate the cover and when it needed to be done by
Mrs G said she didnt get a cancellation  letter after the correspondence  in September 
and October 2013. But ReAssure had written to Mrs G in July 2013 to say the policy  
benefit had ended.  So I dont think it was necessary for them to communicate  that to 
Mrs G again. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint about  ReAssure Limited. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 20 March 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6156189