K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the advice Skipton Building  Society gave him about a Lifetime ISA 
(LISA). Hes also unhappy with its handling of his complaint.
background
In August  2018  Mr C opened a LISA with Skipton. He said he contacted Skipton in January 
2019 as he also had a Help to Buy ISA with another Building Society.  He said that Skipton 
told him he could have both ISAs,  but he was only allowed  to pay money into one. He says 
that because of this advice,  in February 2019 he closed  the LISA and paid the 25% 
withdrawal charge.
He says that a few days later he checked the government services and information website 
(gov.uk) and found that you can pay into both a LISA and a Help to Buy ISA. He said he 
complained to Skipton in February 2019  about  the incorrect advice. He says it then told him 
he could reopen  the LISA and pay into it immediately. He says this was also wrong as you 
cant reopen a LISA in the same tax year.
He says he was also given wrong advice  in March 2019. He said he was told again by
Skipton that you cant have a LISA and a Help to Buy ISA as they are the same type of 
product. He says thats wrong   he said that he can have both, as the two ISAs are for 
different purposes, and they are with different Building Societies.
And he said that he was given wrong advice on a fourth occasion  when Skipton told him the
LISA account had been  closed when he said it hadnt. He complained  to Skipton and it 
offered £50 compensation. But he said this was only for one of the errors, and it hadnt 
considered returning the withdrawal charge to him.
He said that he spoke to a manager at Skipton who he said had listened to all the calls and 
agreed that hed been misadvised on four occasions. He said she told him that shed have 
closed the account if shed been given the same information. He said she told him this was 
raised with the complaints section who refused to agree and wouldnt increase their offer.
Skipton said it had not told Mr C he should close his LISA account. It said it had found  no 
trace of the call Mr C says hed made.  It also explained the 25% charge was an HMRC 
requirement, and not something it could refund. It accepted that it gave wrong information 
about reopening the LISA, and offered £50 for the inconvenience.
One of our investigators  upheld Mr Cs complaint.  He was satisfied  that Mr C wanted a LISA 
alongside his Help to Buy ISA, and he only closed the account because of the information  
given by Skipton.
Skipton disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision. It said it had no evidence of any 
calls from Mr C before March 2019.  It also said that in the message he sent when cancelling,
Mr C stated that he didnt  need the LISA  as it didnt suit his needs.  It said this suggested that 
he hadnt spoken to anyone at Skipton regarding the two ISA products, so the decision to 
close the LISA was not based  on its advice.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019. My findings were  as follows:
Ref: DRN67378302Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im likely to uphold only 
part of this complaint.  I explain  why below.
ISA rules are set by the Government  and maintained by HM Treasury.  There  are 4 types of
ISA:
cash ISAs
stocks and shares ISAs
Innovative finance ISAs
Lifetime ISAs
You can put money into one of each kind of ISA each tax year,  with the maximum amount 
that could be put into all the four ISA types taken together in the 2018/19 tax year was 
£20,000.
In the 2018/19 tax year Mr C says he had a LISA with Skipton, and a Help to Buy ISA with 
another provider.  He says that he had another cash ISA, and he had used £15k of his total 
ISA allowance. His complaint is that in January 2019  he was told by Skipton in a phone call 
he couldnt have  both a LISA  and a Help to Buy ISA. He says that because  of this advice he 
closed the LISA,  and paid a 25% surrender  penalty.
The issue  I have to consider is whether or not Skipton  gave the information that led to Mr C 
closing his LISA. Mr C says he called Skipton in January 2019. Skipton says it has no record 
of any calls from Mr C before  6 March 2019.  Our investigator felt that it was more likely than 
not Mr C did speak to someone at Skipton.  He was persuaded  that Mr Cs actions showed 
he was acting on advice  hed been  given.  And based on the other calls made after he 
cancelled the LISA, there  was a strong possibility he couldve been  given incorrect 
information by Skipton.
I can see why he reached that conclusion. But I disagree. Ill explain why.
When both parties disagree  or the evidence is contradictory, I have to base my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That is what I think is most likely to have happened  given  the 
evidence that is available, and the surrounding circumstances.
Ive listened to the recording of the first call that Skipton can find. This was a call Mr C made  
on 6 March 2019. He said he wanted to clarify what  ISAs  he could have in any one tax year.
Ive listened carefully  to this call. At no point does Mr C refer to being  given  advice by 
Skipton. He says that I was told, I basically believed you couldnt  have  both. Its not until 
the complaint  call on 20 March 2019  that Mr C alleges he was told by Skipton that he 
couldnt have  both a LISA and a Help to Buy ISA.
Ive also seen the message Mr C sent to Skipton on 9 February 2019. Mr C told Skipton:
I would like to close this account,  as it is no longer  needed. it does not suit my 
needs.
Again there is no reference to any conversation with Skipton.
Skipton replied to this message two days later. It attached a letter explaining the government  
withdrawal charge will be applied. It also explained to Mr C that he cannot pay into another
Ref: DRN67378303LISA in the same tax year if hed already  paid into his LISA,  which he had. The letter  told 
Mr C that it would not close the LISA until hed confirmed he understood. Mr C replied saying 
he accepted the charge would be applied.
There is no doubt he was given incorrect information in the phone call on 6 March  2019, and 
in subsequent calls. But I cannot  see that it was incorrect information provided by Skipton 
that led him to close his LISA. Skipton has provided me with all correspondence and 
telephone calls it says it has on file. Ive no reason to doubt  this is the complete file. It has 
also confirmed to me, and to Mr C, that it has checked its records  for other calls  including  
asking Mr C if he might have made  the call from a different number.
Ive also invited Mr C to provide evidence of the call, by example, from itemised phone bills  
but he is unable  to do so.
Ive not seen any evidence that I can rely on that persuades me that Mr C closed his LISA 
because of advice  given by Skipton in January 2019. So I do not uphold  that part of his 
complaint. And it follows that Skipton doesnt  need  to refund the withdrawal charge to Mr C.
I can see that Mr C is a keen saver. He has a range of ISA products and has knowledge  of 
how the products  work. This is apparent  from the first call on 6 March where he explains  to 
Skipton the different types of ISA he has invested  in, and discusses the ISA allowance that is 
available to individual users. He is also aware  of the ISA rules as he refers to them  during 
the conversation  with Skipton.
So, I can understand how confusing and upsetting it would have been  to receive incorrect  
information in various  telephone calls with Skipton. Im satisfied these calls all took place 
after Mr C had closed the LISA. But its clear from the calls that he was keen to reinvest his 
money into a LISA. And I accept with Mr C would have found the information provided by 
Skipton in its calls to be confusing, and this would have been stressful.
Mr C suffered no financial loss  because the governments  rules prevented  him opening  
another LISA in the same tax year. But I agree with our investigator that £100 is fair 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it caused Mr C.
responses
Mr C replied to my provisional decision. He disagreed with my findings.  He felt that I had not 
given enough  weight to the incorrect information  hed been  given on several occasions by 
Skipton. He also repeated that if his LISA  was still open at the time, he would have closed it 
based on what he was told in the call on 20 March 2019. He also says that he had suffered 
financial loss  not only the withdrawal  charge, but he spent a significant  amount  of time 
making phone calls to have this resolved. Skipton agreed to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence for me to consider, Im not upholding this 
complaint for the reasons Ive set out before.
Ref: DRN67378304Mr C has made a number of points, but he has not provided me with any reason why I 
should change  my decision. I explained  in my provisional decision why I accept that he was 
given incorrect information  after the event, and why I dont think this means that he closed 
his LISA because of advice  from Skipton.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold this complaint and require Skipton Building
Society to pay Mr C £100 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6737830