K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading  at the time as Cheltenham  & Gloucester) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998.  Mr and Mrs A paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered their mortgage 
payments in case either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs A, I have not found that this particular PPI policy 
was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Neither side have  the original documents from the sale,  which is understandable given that it 
was over two decades ago and the account  has long since  closed. Indeed, under data 
protection regulations, Lloyds were required to destroy Mr and Mrs As data rather  than hold 
onto it for too long.  I can certainly understand why Mr and Mrs A would  like Lloyds  to be able 
to produce evidence of the sale, but it was too long ago for me to reasonably expect  either 
side to have such evidence now. So Ive thought  carefully  about  whats  most likely  to have 
happened, based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Lloyds to have added the PPI without Mr and 
Mrs As permission,  or to have misled them about  whether  it would help them get the 
mortgage. But I have  no evidence which shows thats what Lloyds did, nor have I seen  any 
wider problems with its sales process from around the time. And the sale was too long ago 
for Lloyds  to reasonably be able to produce any evidence to defend itself now. On that basis,  
I cant fairly conclude that its most likely Lloyds did something wrong here.  Theres nothing 
concrete to substantiate  that. Instead, I think its more likely that Lloyds followed a standard  
process, gave Mr and Mrs A a choice  about  whether they wanted  PPI, and that they chose 
to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs A 
Ive assumed the bank did. That means Lloyds  had to check the PPI was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
Ref: DRN60282382For example, Mr and Mrs A dont appear  to have been significantly affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions  or limitations. While they had some sick pay through work, the PPI 
covered them for much  longer  than that wouldve lasted, and it wouldve paid out on top of 
their work benefits. And they dont seem to have  had any equivalent cover in case one of 
them lost their job.
I understand Mr and Mrs A may have had some savings, but those wouldve only lasted so 
long if they fell on difficult times. And the mortgage was a very large, long-term  commitment  
 there  was no guarantee the savings would still be there in the years to come. Further,  the 
PPI meant that Mr and Mrs A could protect  any savings and use them for other things. Its 
worth bearing in mind  that if Mr and Mrs A fell behind on their mortgage payments, they were 
at a serious risk of losing their home. Overall, I think the PPI couldve  really been useful for 
them in protecting their home and giving  some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs A about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr and Mrs A werent  significantly affected  
by any of the main  things  the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them  
in case something went  wrong.  The policy was not bad value given how much it would pay 
out in a claim and Ive not seen any indication that it was unaffordable.  And if Mr and Mrs As 
circumstances changed, they could cancel  it at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6028238