K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited settled a claim made against his motor 
insurance policy.
background
In May 2018  Mr K had an incident  with the rear of another vehicle.  Mr K described  the 
incident as a bump and said there  was no damage to the other vehicle. Mr K said the owner  
of the other vehicle  asked him for £300 to cover any damage (although  esures records note 
the amount as being £200). Mr K refused because there was no evidence  of any damage 
and he took photos as evidence.
Mr K reported the incident to his insurer esure and told them there was no damage to the 
other vehicle. Esure then contacted the other driver to arrange repairs. They paid £760 in full 
and final settlement of the claim.  
Mr K was unhappy with the decision,  he thought no payment shouldve been  made  because  
there was no damage to the other vehicle. He complained  to esure who didnt uphold his 
complaint. They felt they were within their rights to settle the claim as they had full discretion  
within the policy terms to do so.
Esure said it was more  economical to settle the claim to avoid any extra  costs  such as hire 
car charges. They also said the other  vehicle  would most likely have been  written off due to 
its age and the claim costs would  have been more than what they settled the claim for.
However esure acknowledged there  were delays  in providing an answer to Mr K and offered 
£100 as compensation for the inconvenience.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019  where I said:
Mr K has said esure were at fault because they paid the claim without sending an engineer  
to inspect the other vehicle. Ive considered if esure  made a reasonable decision when they 
settled the claim. Its a common  term in motor insurance policies to allow  an insurer to settle 
any claim against them as they see fit, and so esure  can do this whether Mr K agrees with it 
or not. Insurers are entitled to make  a commercial decision about  whether its reasonable for 
them to settle  a claim.
Ive taken into account esures  experience  in dealing with cases like this. They  considered 
the available  information, particularly that Mr K admitted he hit the rear of the other vehicle. 
Its widely accepted  in the motor  insurance industry  and by the courts  that the party  hitting 
the other from behind  is at fault. Because of this, esure has to accept liability  for any damage 
Mr K has caused.
But there are a couple of factors that esure needed  to take into consideration to ensure that 
they were treating Mr K fairly. Mr K told them the other driver  said his vehicle had been  hit 
three times previously. Mr K also told them he had photos of the incident which showed 
there was no damage. However esure made an offer to settle  the claim before the other 
driver claimed and before they received the photos  from Mr K. They also didnt  appear  to 
take into account what Mr K had told them  regarding  the three other  incidents.
Ref: DRN60387532Ive considered the impact of their actions on the outcome of the claim. Im of the opinion  
that on the balance of probabilities the other  driver wouldve subsequently raised a claim 
against Mr K at some point. I say this because he tried to settle with Mr K at the time of the 
incident and later raised a claim for personal injury.
I dont expect insurers to make decisions that will increase their costs and esure felt they 
could mitigate their losses if they settled early. Esure made the decision to settle  without an 
engineers report  based on the cost to settle the claim. There  was potential for increased  
costs if they didnt settle at the time. This is because they believed  if the other driver raised a 
claim, the other  vehicle could be written off due to its age and theyd potentially have to pay 
for car hire for the other driver.
Ive considered what the impact of settling for the amount they did has had on Mr K. This is 
because Mr K told esure the other  driver wanted  less than the amount they settled the claim 
for. Irrespective of the amount  paid, Mr K wouldve been recorded  as being fault for the 
incident.
So I think esures decision to settle early,  and for the amount they did, hasnt unfairly 
impacted Mr K and I dont  intend to ask them to do any more
Esure responded and accepted my provisional findings. Mr K didnt agree with my findings.  
In summary,  he said:
The only reason he phoned esure was to inform them of the other drivers intentions.
He sent esure photos of the damage  before the claim was settled.
He would have  been unhappy with the decision to settle  the claim for any amount as 
there was no damage to the other car.
Esure settled the claim too early  in order to save money. If they had sent an engineer 
then none of this would  be necessary.
How can an insurance company settle a claim if there is no claim?
We will never know if my opinion  that on the balance  of probabilities the other driver 
would have subsequently raised  a claim, would have been right because esure 
settled before a claim was made.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as Ive set out in my provisional decision. 
But I would like to respond to Mr Ks additional comments  as follows.
I accept Mr K made esure aware of the other drivers intentions and sent them  photos  
showing of the damage (or lack of) to the other car. However, the terms of Mr Ks policy say 
that esure have full discretion. This means  they are within their rights to admit  liability  and 
settle early.  And given  that Mr K admitted  he made contact with the rear of the other drivers 
car, then I dont think its unreasonable for esure  to try and minimise their losses. As Ive said 
in my provisional decision Its widely accepted in the motor insurance industry and by the 
courts that the party hitting the other  from behind is at fault.  Because of this, esure  has to 
accept liability for any damage  Mr K has caused.
Ref: DRN60387533I understand Mr Ks frustration that esure settled early. From the images Ive seen, there  
doesnt appear to be much, if any, damage to the other car. But, its fair to say images wont 
always show the full extent of any damage. And while an engineers inspection would most 
likely have determined the full extent of any damage, this would come at an expense. And 
esure would also have to take into account any additional costs  such  as car hire for the other 
driver and the potential  cost of writing off the other car due to its age.
Mr K is right in saying that we will never know if the other driver would have raised a claim. 
But in these circumstances  I have to make a finding on the balance  of probabilities. And for 
the reasons I gave  in my provisional decision,  I think the other  driver would have made a 
claim. 
Taking everything into account,  I can see why Mr K is so frustrated by what has happened.  
Especially as he will have to declare the accident when he is applying  for car insurance in 
the future.  But as I dont think esure have acted unreasonably, I cant  uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6038753