K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about Avantia Insurance Limited (Avantia) for not cancelling her landlords 
home insurance in mid 2017, when  she sold the insured property.  She wants  Avantia to 
refund to her the premiums she paid for the period  after July 2017, up until she realised the 
policy was still in place  in 2018. 
background
Mrs A owns  a number of properties, which she rents  out to tenants. 
Around July 2017, Mrs A sold one of the properties.  
She believes that she contacted Avantia around July 2017  to cancel the policy  for that 
property. 
Mrs A spoke to Avantia  again  in December  2017, after she had received policy  renewal 
documentation. The renewal documentation had quoted a premium of around £300 for cover  
for 2018, but during  the course  of the telephone call this was reduced to around  £183. Mrs A 
agreed to continue with Avantia, and paid for the renewal during that call. 
Some time later, Mrs A realised that insurance remained in place for the sold property and 
she cancelled this. She requested a refund of the premiums paid since July 2017.  
Avantia refused this request and Mrs A complained. 
Avantia sent Mrs A its final response  in December 2018. It stated that it had no record  of the 
policy being cancelled,  and so it had provided  cover in good  faith,  based  on the information it 
had. 
Mrs A was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this complaint  and has set out her view to the 
parties. This view was that there  was no evidence that Mrs A had attempted  to cancel the 
policy in July 2017, and there was no evidence that Avantia had done anything  wrong in not 
cancelling the policy. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs A did not accept this view and asked  for an ombudsman decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avantia has provided  details of all notes made  against this policy, and has provided  a 
recording of Mrs As call in December 2017. 
There is no record of any contact being  made  in July 2017, or any other calls. 
During the December  2017 call, Mrs A explained  that she had received renewal 
documentation and that she was concerned about  the price  of cover. She quoted the policy  
reference number  from that documentation during  the call. 
Ref: DRN69893882The agent  she spoke  with made  some  enquiries and was able to reduce the cost of cover,  
from around £300 to around £183  for the year.  
Mrs A was pleased with this and paid her renewal premium during the call. 
At no point  during the call did Mrs A explain that she had sold the property at an earlier 
stage. 
Avantia has provided  a copy  of the renewal  documentation which Mrs A had been sent in 
December 2017,  and this clearly states  the address  of the property in the schedule  with the 
same policy number which Mrs A quoted. 
No further evidence has been  provided  showing that the policy should have been cancelled 
at an earlier  date. 
Avantia auto renewed the policy each year after around 2011  and this process had worked  
without problem until 2017. This auto renewal relied on Mrs A making  Avantia aware of any 
changes, in order for the renewal to continue to be appropriate. 
In the absence of evidence  showing that Mrs A tried to cancel  the policy,  I cannot say it was 
unreasonable of Avantia to leave  cover in place, or to auto renew it at the end of 2017.  They  
did this in good faith and Mrs A received the documentation indicating  that renewal would 
take place. It was her responsibility to let Avantia know if this was incorrect. 
I therefore agree with the investigators  view that, although the policy continuing  appears  to 
have been a mistake, it was not the fault of Avantia. 
I appreciate Mrs As frustration and upset that she had, and paid for, cover for a property 
which she did not own after July 2017, but I cannot say, based  on the evidence, that Avantia 
has done anything  wrong. Consequently, I do not uphold Mrs As complaint.
I understand that this will be disappointing  to Mrs A, but I hope it clearly explains why I have  
reached this decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mrs As complaint and do not ask 
Avantia Insurance Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6989388