K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2007 to 
protect a loan Mr W says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
HSBC had to make  Mr W aware that the PPI was optional  and gain his consent before 
adding it to his loan. Theres limited paperwork available from the time the PPI was sold but 
HSBC has sent us a copy  of the type of form Mr W would have completed.  The form 
required Mr W to sign separately for the PPI to agreeing with the loan. So I think HSBC 
made it clear  that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr W 
has told us that at the time he took the PPI he was a director of his own company; he had 
some savings, was receiving payments from a pension, and could have relied on friends and 
family to help him make his repayments.  But from what  Ive seen of Mr Ws employment 
status at the time he took the policy I still think he could have made a claim under the PPI. I 
also dont think the fact that Mr M was receiving a pension payment would have stopped him 
from making a claim. And while Mr W had savings, the PPI would have  allowed him to keep 
his savings in place, to help towards  other essential  expenses. While Mr Ws friends and 
family would have wanted to help their ability to would  have been dependent  on their 
circumstances at the time which  could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time, he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
So I think it was right for him. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN64001932To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, but these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mr W any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mr W the extra he paid each month on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr W paid if the loan was paid off early.  HSBC should also pay Mr W 8%* simple  interest on 
the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But HSBC  Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6400193