K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of a claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr D's car was damaged in an accident. Advantage arranged  repairs. Mr D was unhappy 
with the repair process  and complained.  Advantage acknowledged that its service should 
have been better. So it paid Mr D £150  compensation  for the impact  of its failings.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  thought that Advantage should increase 
its offer of compensation to £300  in total.  Mr D didn't  think  that went  far enough so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it and 
my award to put things right will be the same  as our investigator recommended.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ds made  a number  of detailed points. I've considered  
everything hes had to say. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our investigators  assessment of the complaint.
Reading the file paints a clear picture of some of the frustrations Mr Ds had to put up with. 
Advantage didn't tell him at the outset that he could  ask for the garage of his choice to carry 
out repairs. And if it had done so I don't doubt he would have taken that option. Instead 
Advantage referred the car to one of its approved  repairers.
After receiving some parts the approved repairer said that it couldn't  begin work on the car 
for ten days. It then constantly pushed  back the estimated  dates the repairs  would be 
completed by. During this time Mr D was regularly chasing for updates. And he clearly 
wasn't satisfied with the quality of the courtesy  car. Also the repairs took even longer than 
they should have because  the approved repairer  caused Mr Ds car additional damaged 
while it was in their care.  And I can understand that all those things must have been a 
source of frustration for Mr D.
In particular Mr D clearly  wasnt happy with the courtesy car that the approved repairer gave 
him. But Mr Ds car only entitles him to a small group A car. So the repairer provided Mr D 
with a courtesy car his policy entitles him to. But I can understand that he didn't expect to 
have to use a car of that type for such an extended period of time and this would have added 
to his frustration.
Mr Ds suggested that, in order to put things right, Advantage  should compensate  him for the 
difference between  what  it would have  cost Advantage to provide him with an upgraded hire 
car equivalent to his own car above  the costs of the courtesy car. But I don't think thats 
reasonable. While Mr D didn't have  the benefit  of his own car he did have a courtesy car and 
as such was still mobile. And while I can understand his frustration with the delays he hasn't  
had to actually  pay for a hire vehicle, so hes not out of pocket in that respect. Therefore I 
Ref: DRN66557322don't think  it's fair to instruct Advantage to compensate him for a loss he hasn't  actually 
suffered. But I do think Advantage needs to do more to address  Mr Ds distress and 
inconvenience beyond  the £150  its already  paid to him. I think a further £150 compensation, 
which brings the total to £300  is appropriate. I think that sum is fair and reasonable as it's in 
line with awards we make in cases of similar seriousness. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr D a further  £150  compensation to address his distress  and 
inconvenience. It should pay the compensation within  28 days  of us telling it that Mr D has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on that amount 
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple .1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Advantage  pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr D a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN6655732