K820x#14complaint
Ms G, trading  as L, complains that Paymentsense Limited (PL) set up her businesss card 
payment facility incorrectly. She says that she has not received card payment funds from all 
transactions through a card scheme  (A) and wants those funds passed  to her by PL. She 
wants PL to apologise  and compensate her.
background
Ms G signed  a merchant  services agreement (MSA) with a merchant services provider, that 
Ill call F, sold by PL. 
Within months, Ms G noticed that the money  from A card payments was not going into her 
bank account.  She contacted PL to tell them,  but PL told her they had not set a contract  up 
with A. PL told her to contact A directly  herself.
Ms G stopped taking  A card payments from early  2016 but payments she did take in 2018  
also didnt go into her bank account.
In early 2019, PL provided  Ms G with an A application form so that she could set up an 
acquirer contract with A.
Ms G complained to PL that her contract was with them  and they shouldve set up the 
contract with A at the start. She wanted  the value of the missing  payments paid to her, plus 
compensation for the disruption to her time.
PLs final response letter  explained  that A are a separate merchant card acquiring service to 
PL. PL said they cant control a contract  with A and didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Ms G didnt agree and referred her complaint  to us. An investigator looked  at the evidence 
and arguments  and agreed  with PL. She noted that Ms Gs PL application form in 2015  
didnt have any A account details on it. And she couldnt find any evidence that Ms G had 
asked PL to arrange a MSA with A. And such an agreement was not PLs responsibility to 
set up for Ms G.
Ms G didnt agree, saying  that she felt PL should have set up her MSA to include A, and her 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Ms G will be upset by my findings,  
but I also agree that PL havent done anything unfairly or unreasonably.  I will explain why.
PLs role in the MSA between them and Ms G is to arrange an acquirer to process card 
payments from her customers. PL do not process  the payments or have the money from 
card payments sent to them. Ms Gs application  form to F, completed with PL at the time of 
the sale of the facility,  has a list of different card schemes that the agreement connected 
her with. This didnt  include the card scheme/acquirer  that relates to this dispute. 
There is a separate  space  on the application  form for Ms G to complete with her A account 
details. With these details,  F would be able to connect Ms G to A so that the money  from A 
card payments would  be paid into her bank account.
Ref: DRN69712612But Ms G didnt include her A account details on the form, and I cant  see that she asked F, 
via PL, to set A up for her at that time. I dont know what conversations  PL had with Ms G 
when the application form was filled in, so I am relying on the evidence  of the application 
form.
Ms G noticed she wasnt receiving the money  from A card payments in early  2016, so she 
contacted PL. And PL suggested to Ms G that she contacted A to set up an acquirer contract 
with them.  Ms G says she didnt contact A. I think its likely that if Ms G had called  A as 
suggested by PL, the contract with A would have been created and she would have received 
the money from all the A card payments after that time.
Ms G has produced receipts  for A card payments taken in 2018 that she hasnt received the 
money for. But I cant see evidence that shed opened an account with them by then. It is not 
clear why Ms G started to take payments on a card type that she didnt  have a contract  for. It 
wasnt until early in 2019 that Ms G completed an A application form. I dont think  it would be 
reasonable to expect  PL to know whether Miss G had a contract  with A. 
I cant see that PL were  responsible for Ms G not setting up A as an acquirer, and I find that 
theyve done nothing unfairly  or unreasonably  in arranging the MSA agreement  with F.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated,  I do not uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G, trading as L, 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2020.
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6971261