K820x#14complaint
T, a trust and registered charity, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted  access  to its 
account causing inconvenience and reputational damage.
background
HSBC wrote to T to say it was carrying out a safeguard exercise to help guard against  fraud 
and financial  crime. It told T it needed to provide information including its trust deed.  When  T 
did not do so it told T that the bank account would be closed. The account was suspended 
from 3 May to 26 July 2018 meaning  that T could  not make  payments and a cheque  was 
returned. HSBC  offered  to pay T £100  for not telling T in writing that the review  was 
completed until an email on 3 September 2018.
Our investigator did not recommend that HSBC do anything more. She said that:
-HSBC was entitled to decide  on what processes  to put in place to ensure  it met 
regulatory requirements.
-It told T what it needed and that if the information was not provided  the account  
would be closed.
-She knew that T was unhappy that HSBC no longer had a copy of the trust deed it 
provided when  the account was opened  some  18 years ago. It was not required to 
keep this for more  than six years. But the representative of T had said that although  
T did not have a copy it could  have obtained  one.
-HSBC had changed its process in July 2018 and said it then accepted evidence that 
T was registered as a charity on an official website.
-She knew that the trustees had made payments for T from their personal  accounts 
but we could only look at the impact on T in this complaint.
-The compensation was fair to reflect the delay in telling T the review  was completed.
T did not agree.  The representative said that T was never a risk as it was a registered charity 
with no property or investments. T could  not locate the trust deed  but had letters to indicate 
its existence. T believed that its account  was unblocked when HSBC realised that its copy  
was destroyed.  T was inconvenienced  and its reputation damaged when a cheque it issued 
for £1,000  was returned. The representative did not think that this service was acting here to 
represent and defend customer rights. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to start by saying that we provide informal  dispute resolution and act impartially. And 
we dont have  a role in saying what processes HSBC puts in place as we are not the 
regulator.
With that in mind I agree with our investigator  that it was a matter for HSBC  to set out what it 
needed to meet regulatory requirements and make sure it had up to date information  about 
its customers. It was clearly not relying on information it already had including  for example 
any checks made when  Ts account  was initially opened. I dont doubt  that T then provided a 
copy of its trust deed. But I dont  think it was unreasonable that HSBC did not retain a copy  
given the time that had passed  since then.
Ref: DRN67314752The representative of T has confirmed that a copy of the trust deed could have been 
obtained. Whatever view T took about  HSBC not retaining a copy I think it would have been 
reasonable for T to get a further copy  not least for its own records. And this would  likely  
have avoided the account being  suspended. HSBC has provided evidence to this service to 
show that it was only a change in its policy about verifying the details  of registered charities 
in July 2018 that meant the requirement  was removed. 
Ive seen copies  of letters sent to T about the review. Earlier  letters  were  addressed  to a 
previous official but still reached T. Im afraid  I think that these did set out what  was going  to 
be required  and by when.  And that the account would otherwise be closed from 3 May 2018. 
It seems  that as T had an active complaint by then the account was suspended not closed 
from that date. But on 27 June 2018  when  HSBC issued a response to the complaint it 
asked T if it still wanted the account.
I know that T had to make arrangements for its essential payments to be made.  But I dont 
see that was due to any mistake  by HSBC. And the recipient of the cheque that was 
returned contacted T about this on 18 June  2018.  Ive not seen  the date of the cheque  but it 
seems likely that this was issued after T had been  told its account would be closed.
In its complaint form to this service the representative of T stated that HSBC told T on 27 
July 2018 that the block  was lifted.  I appreciate  that T did not receive written confirmation 
until 3 September  2018 but it did know that the account was again  usable. HSBC accepts 
that it undertook  to provide written  confirmation  that the safeguard  exercise was complete 
and given the delay has offered to pay T £100. I think  thats reasonable and I wont be 
asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
HSBC Bank  UK Plc has already made  an offer to pay T £100  to settle the complaint and I 
think that this is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that HSBC UK Plc should pay 
T £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6731475