K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the service he received  from Interactive Investor Services  Limited.
background
Mr F uses Interactive Investor  to manage  his investments online. In January 2018,  he had 
difficulty using the full features of the program  and so raised  this with Interactive Investor. 
Mr F said the level of customer service he received, after hed reported  the issue, was poor. 
He explained  Interactive  Investor was unable  to diagnose the problem, or adequately 
investigate what he was complaining about.  He also mentioned he had to wait for 25 minutes 
to talk to someone  and that hed put a lot of time into trying  to get answers  to his complaint 
points. 
Interactive Investor  said the level of customer service it offered Mr F fell below the expected 
standard and so it offered  him £50 compensation. It also told Mr F to use its preferred 
browser which resolved  the problem altogether. 
Our investigator thought Interactive had taken necessary steps to put things right and so did 
not recommend  it take any further action.  But Mr F did not agree. In summary,  he said;
Interactive Investor failed to respond to his complaint in good  time and that it 
breached its internal  service standards;
That it had also failed  to abide  by its own complaints  procedure  and adequately deal 
with its maladministration;
Our investigators view is not thorough enough  and skates  over the issues which  he 
feels are important. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has submitted a wealth of evidence and arguments about why he believes Interactive 
Investments has treated  him unfairly.  Id like to reassure Mr F that Ive reviewed and 
understood all the points  he has made, but in terms of my investigation into whats happened 
and for the purposes of my final decision, I wont be responding to each and every point. 
Rather, Ill respond only to those  I consider  to be central to the issue  which  initially gave Mr F 
cause for complaint. 
I take on board Mr Fs frustration around the way his complaint was handled, but I wont  be 
commenting on Interactive Investments complaints procedures, or any part of his complaint 
that I consider to be about the way it conducts  its business. This also includes whether its 
staff are skilled to the level Mr F expected. My reasoning here is that this is Interactive 
Investments commercial right to decide  how to operate and not something  that can be 
challenged through this service.  
Having carefully considered Interactive  Investments position  on Mr Fs complaint, Im 
satisfied its taken appropriate action to put things right and so I will not be asking it to do 
anything more than it has already. I know  Mr F would like Interactive Investor to provide a 
Ref: DRN65366582more detailed response to his complaint and £100 compensation for the issues  he 
encountered, but I do not think this is necessary  or fair. Ill explain why.
Mr F was unable  to use all the features of Interactive Investments  platform at the end of 
January 2018.  He told it about the problems he was facing and was left unhappy  with the 
response he received.  To be clear, Im satisfied with Interactive Investments position here 
too. I note that when  Mr F used the web chat tool to log the issue,  it was quickly determined 
that there  were no reported issues with the online platform  at that time. The advisor  then 
asked Mr F which browser  he was using,  to which it was recommended Mr F switch  and use 
the one best suited to Interactive Investments website.  This resolved the initial  problem Mr F 
was complaining about as it gave him a way of using the functions  he was unable to before. 
Mr F was unhappy with this as he wanted  to use the browser of his choice, but I do not think  
it reasonable to hold Interactive Investment responsible here as Ive not seen any evidence 
which leads me to believe it was at fault.  Interactive Investment explained  to Mr F that his 
preferred browser was compatible with its online platform and that it was not aware of any 
issue preventing  it from working. Our investigator concluded that the initial issue Mr F 
experienced was likely to be a problem  with his preferred browser as it was updated around 
the same  time the issue arose. I take on board that Mr F did not agree with this, but Ive not 
seen any evidence that persuades me otherwise. Further, because Interactive Investment 
could not find a problem on its side it took no action to try and fix the issue Mr F had 
complained about  which I think is understandable  given the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
I should highlight  that the problem appeared to fix itself some weeks later as Mr F was 
eventually able to access the online platform,  alongside  all of its functions, using his 
preferred browser. And so, on balance, I think its reasonable to suggest  that Mr F was 
unable to use the features of Interactives website because of an issue with the recent 
update that had been released by the browser administrator. I also think its likely  a patch 
was then issued  later which fixed any bugs that may have been present from the recent  
update  meaning Mr F was then able to use the platform and all its features without a 
problem. And so without  any evidence to the contrary, Im more  persuaded by this.
In any event, Interactive  Investment accepted it could have handled some things better than 
it did. It highlighted the error it made whereby it used an old email address to respond to 
Mr Fs complaint. It also apologised for asking Mr F to call, knowing there was not anything 
more it could to support  with the problem  he was experiencing.  In addition to its apology for 
the poor service,  it provided assurances that Mr Fs feedback had been taken on board  
which I think is fair. 
I know Mr F would like to be compensated for the time he has spent on this complaint, but I 
do not think this is necessary.  I say this because Interactive  Investment provided  clear and 
reasonable answers to Mr Fs initial problem. I should also make clear that its not the role of 
this service to punish a business because it made a mistake. I consider this to be a relatively  
straightforward issue that was addressed promptly. I also think the compensation already 
paid fairly  reflects  the level of trouble and upset caused. 
Everything else that followed was because Mr F continued to drive his complaint forwards,  
despite being given reasonable answers to the issues  hed encountered. I also found  the 
sheer wealth  of Mr Fs correspondence  to be overwhelming and disproportionate to the level 
of impact this problem had caused. This in turn added  to the overall  upset Mr F has 
Ref: DRN65366583complained about,  but I find his position,  and expectations here, to be unreasonable.  And so 
I make  no further award in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6536658