K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997 in connection with a store  card. I 
issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 20 March 2019.  Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below:
I accepted that Ms W had a medical condition when she bought  the policy, which 
meant she probably wouldnt have been  covered if shed had to claim on the policy in 
connection with that condition.
But Ms W had told us about the medication she takes to manage her condition.  And 
shed said that her condition is well controlled  and generally doesnt  affect  her day to 
day life. Ms W hadnt mentioned that shed had any time off work in connection with 
her condition.
I couldnt be sure that FICL pointed out the exclusion for medical conditions to Ms W 
when she bought the policy.  But even  if it had drawn the exclusion to her attention,  I 
thought it was unlikely that she wouldve made  a different decision about  buying the 
PPI. Thats because  I thought there was a relatively low risk of Ms W having to make  
a disability claim in connection  with her condition. 
Ms Ws store card application form was completed to show  that she wanted the 
cover. So I hadnt been able to safely conclude that MBNA  didnt make her aware 
that the PPI was optional.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms W so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  
for her.
It was possible the cost information FICL gave Ms W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it should have been. But the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information its cost wouldve  stopped  her buying it.
Overall, from what Id seen, I wasnt persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold.
The parties didnt  make any further  representations in response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations  from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN64565562my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6456556