K821x#15complaint
Mr As complained about the way Gefion  Insurance A/S handled his taxi insurance claim 
after his taxi was hit by a stolen vehicle. 
Reference to Gefion includes its agent.
background
Mr A said he was stationary and parked  in his taxi, on 30 November 2018,  when  another  
vehicle crashed into him. He said he arranged to have his taxi moved to a safe place and 
then reported  the claim  to Gefion.
Gefion said Mr A reported the claim more than 48 hours after the accident, on 3 December. 
It said his claim  was initially being dealt with by an accident management company but it 
took over when it became apparent that the claim would be considered a fault  claim as the 
other vehicle  was stolen  and uninsured. 
Gefion accepted Mr As claim  and said it tried to recover its losses.  However, as the stolen 
vehicle had been cloned there wasnt any insurer to recover  them from. This meant it would 
be recorded as a fault claim. Gefion charged  Mr A an additional excess  of £500 for reporting 
the claim more than 48 hours after the accident  and said it wouldnt cover  his £15 a day 
storage fees or £450 recovery fee, as these werent  covered under the policy. It said he 
could have stored the taxi in his garage  for free and it would have recovered him for free if 
hed called straightaway. Gefion also passed on a cost of £180, as its salvage agent  had a 
wasted journey in going  to collect Mr As car from storage. Mr A said hed ended up 
collecting the taxi himself. But Gefion said it had still incurred this cost as the recovery  agent 
was already on its way when Mr A decided to collect it himself  at short notice.
Mr A complained to us, as he didnt think the claim should be recorded as being his fault. 
And he was unhappy with paying the additional  fees.
Our investigator recommended that Mr As complaint be partly upheld.  He thought it was 
reasonable that Gefion record the claim as a fault claim  as it hadnt been able to recover  its 
losses. And he thought  Gefion could charge Mr A for the recovery  agents  wasted journey, 
as hed decided  to collect it at short notice. He didnt think  Gefion needed to pay for the 
recovery agent Mr A instructed after the accident, as he thought Mr A could have called 
Gefion instead.  But he didnt think it was fair for Gefion to charge Mr A an additional excess  
as it hadnt been prejudiced by him reporting  the claim late. He also thought  Gefion should 
refund the storage fees from 3 December, as he thought  it should  have arranged to collect  
the taxi on that date.  He also thought Gefion should add interest  on the storage fees and late 
excess, as well as paying Mr A an additional £200  compensation.
Mr A accepted our investigators recommendation but Gefion didnt.  It said the late excess 
was in the terms and conditions  of the policy and ensured it was able to control claim costs. 
It didnt think it was treating customers equally if it didnt charge Mr A the additional excess,  
as it would anyone  else. It said it would pay Mr As storage fees from 10 December as a 
gesture of goodwill. But didnt think it was responsible  for paying these, as it had only 
accepted the claim on 13 December.  It asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
Ref: DRN60538632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for the same reasons. 
I can understand Mr As frustration at the claim being recorded  as fault  given the 
circumstances of what happened.  But this doesnt  mean the accident was his fault, only that 
Gefion hasnt been able to recover its losses from anyone. I can see Gefion tried to find the 
insurer of the stolen vehicle but wasnt able to because it had been cloned.  In that case 
Gefion needed  to record the claim in the way it did, so Im not doing to ask it to change the 
way its recorded.  
The terms of Mr As policy say Gefion wont be responsible for any costs he incurs before 
notifying it of the claim. Mr A arranged his own recovery and was charged  £450. If hed 
phoned Gefion  at the time of the accident  Gefion  would have been able to arrange  this 
without charge. As it was Mr As choice  to arrange his own recovery  rather than call Gefion, 
Im not going  to require Gefion to reimburse him for this.
I also dont require Gefion  to refund the £180  fee it paid its salvage  agent  to collect  Mr As 
car from storage. Gefion  let Mr A know his taxi was going to be collected and he decided to 
pick it up himself separately at short notice.  As Gefion has incurred this cost, I think  its fair, 
that in this particular case,  it passes that charge  on to Mr A due to the timescales involved.
Gefion says its acted  in line with the terms and conditions of the policy  in collecting Mr As 
car once  it knew the claim was covered. Thats  because the policy says if the claim is 
covered Gefion will arrange for the vehicle to be moved to the nearest approved  repairer. 
Ive listened to a call between Gefion and its agent where Gefion said the accident 
management company  should have arranged to collect  his taxi. I understand the accident 
management company  takes the initial claims calls.  But as theyre doing that on Gefions 
behalf then I think  theyre  Gefions agents  in taking the details of the claim.  And I think it 
should have been reasonably apparent that Mr A would have needed to be passed to Gefion 
to claim under his own policy, given  that Mr A said the other  vehicle was stolen when he first 
reported the claim. 
I understand it was Mr As choice to move  his taxi to storage but if Gefion wasnt  going to 
collect the taxi until it had accepted the claim, Id have expected  it to have told Mr A this so 
he could decide  whether  to move it. I also dont think this is fair and reasonable, as if Mr A 
had called Gefion  after the accident it would have arranged recovery  of the taxi and stored it 
without charge. As Gefion didnt tell Mr A it wouldnt pay any storage fees after he reported 
the claim,  I think it should refund the £35 a day storage  fees from 3 December, which is the 
date he reported  the claim. Due to the time hes been without this money, Gefion should 
interest at 8% simple  per year from the date he paid for the storage fees to the date it makes 
payment. 
The terms of Mr As policy say if he reports the claim more  than 48 hours after the accident 
hell be charged an additional excess of £500.  I can understand Gefions reasons for this. 
But Id only think this was fair if Mr A not reporting  the claim within 48 hours had cost Gefion 
more than if hed reported it in time. In this case I havent seen anything  to show  thats  the 
case. Gefion would have still paid the claim and it hasnt had any extra costs in recovery or 
hire charges  due to him reporting it late. I understand Gefion thinks not charging Mr A this 
Ref: DRN60538633wouldnt be treating  its other  customers fairly. But Im required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. For that reason, Gefion should 
refund Mr A the £500, adding  interest at 8% simple per year from the date he paid the 
additional excess to the date it makes  payment. 
Ive heard from calls between Mr A and Gefion where he didnt think he should pay the 
storage fees and asked a number of times  for his taxi to be collected. However, this didnt  
happen until 17 December. I accept this caused Mr A unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience as he was worried about  having  to pay storage fees and had to make  calls to 
sort this out. Im satisfied £200 is a fair and reasonable amount for Gefion to pay to 
compensate for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partly uphold this complaint  and require Gefion Insurance  
A/S to:
Reimburse Mr As storage costs  at £35 a day from 3 December 2018;
Reimburse Mr A the additional  excess  of £500;
Add interest to these  at 8% simple  from the date Mr A paid for them to the date it 
makes payment1.
Pay Mr A £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
1 If Gefion  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6053863