K822xcomplaint
Mrs P, as executor of the estate of her late husband, Mr P, complains that Legal and 
General Assurance  Society Limited failed  to correctly place a life policy in trust. 
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in January  
2019. A copy is attached and forms part of this final decision.  
I noted that L&G had acknowledged  its error  in not ensuring that the policy  had been placed  
in trust. So the only issue outstanding was what fair compensation should be. The main point 
of contention was around the amount of interest  that should  be paid in respect of the delay in 
the claim being paid while  the matter was sorted out. Our adjudicator had felt that L&G was 
responsible for the whole 12 month delay. L&G disagreed, as it considered that a significant 
part of this was a result of Mrs P not returning  documents. 
Having looked  closely at the chronology of events,  I was of the view that in all the 
circumstances it would  be reasonable to hold L&G responsible for a delay of nine months.
Mrs P accepted this, but also asked for clarity  on the other  two elements of the 
compensation  the payment of accountancy  fees and a payment to acknowledge the 
trouble and upset  caused.  
L&G also accepted the decision,  but sought  some clarity on which  period of nine months  
should be used  in the calculation redress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties were broadly in agreement with my provisional decision Ive nothing further 
to add to my reasoning. In respect of the compensation queries raised by both parties, these 
are clarified below and have been seen and acknowledged by both parties in advance  of the 
issuing of this final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
As I noted  in my provisional decision I understand the indemnity, costs and compensation 
aspects of the offer have been  agreed between the parties and I consider these elements to 
all be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  For clarity, the costs and compensation 
amounts are £2,880 and £2,000 respectively.
In respect of the interest,  Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay the 
amount of D, where:
Ref: DRN60737862A = interest on the claim amount of £250,000 at 8% per year simple,  for a period of 
nine months from 1 February  2017 to 1 November 2017;
B = interest on the amount at A at 8% per year simple for the period 1 November 
2017 to the date of settlement;
C = interest already  paid;
D = A + B - C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P on behalf  of 
the estate to accept  or reject my decision before  19 March 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60737863COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION 
complaint
Mrs P, as executor of the estate of her late husband, Mr P, complains  that Legal  and General 
Assurance Society Limited failed to correctly place a life policy  in trust. 
background
In 2009 Mr P took out a life policy to provide a lump sum of £250,000 if he died. He intended the 
policy to be put in trust for the benefit of his nephew, to ensure the family  business could continue. 
L&G confirmed to Mr P that the relevant  documents were in order.
Sadly, Mr P died in 2016  so a claim was made on the policy. At this point L&G discovered the trust 
document hadnt been  correctly signed, so the trust had never actually been valid. L&G accepted it 
had made  a mistake  and took responsibility for the consequences. Agreement  has largely  been 
reached on what it should  do to put things right but Mrs P remains concerned that the compensation  
offered by L&G doesnt go far enough.
One of our adjudicators  considered what L&G had offered and was broadly satisfied that it addressed 
all the issues. L&G offered to indemnify against any future inheritance liability that might arise  as a 
result of the money having to be paid to Mrs P, as beneficiary of Mr Ps estate, and then passed on  
effectively as a gift  to her nephew. L&G also offered to meet the costs  of an accountants advice 
and make a payment of £2,000 for the worry  caused.
The only issue that remains in dispute is the question of what  interest should be paid in respect of the 
delay in paying the claim while the indemnity document was sorted out. Our adjudicator felt that if the 
trust had been  set up correctly payment of the claim would most likely have been made  around 1 
February 2017. So, as the proceeds  werent  received until 1 February 2018, the adjudicator  
concluded that L&G should pay interest at 8% per year simple for that 12 month period   the rate 
normally applied in circumstances where  a consumer is deprived of the use of money.
L&G didnt agree  with this. It considers that for nearly  half of the 12 month period  it was waiting  for 
Mrs P to respond on various issues and it doesnt think  it should compensate for periods of delay for 
which it wasnt responsible. 
As the adjudicator  wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, the matters  been passed to me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As noted, given L&Gs acceptance of its error and offer to put things right, the only issue that remains 
outstanding is how interest should be applied  for the period  that the £250,000 claim  remained unpaid 
 1 February 2017 to 1 February 2018.
Ive looked carefully at what occurred during the period in question. L&G has pointed  to two particular  
periods where there  appears to have been delay  on the part of Mrs P and her representatives;  one of 
approximately four months from June  2017  and one of nearly two months from early December 2017. 
The second  of these I think should simply be discounted. In my view it wasnt  excessive and clearly 
spanned the Christmas holiday period.  But the first period   from June 2017  was quite significant 
and responsibility for at least some of it does appear to sit with Mrs P and her representatives.
That said, it was always going to take some time to respond  to L&Gs  request for documents  of 13 
June 2017. So I dont think it would be fair to reduce the period for which interest is due by the whole 
Ref: DRN60737864four months. But in all the circumstances I think its fair to conclude that the overall period  of delay for 
which L&G should be responsible is nine, rather than 12, months  - so a reduction of three months on 
what the adjudicator  found. I dont think it can be any less than this  its important to remember that 
there wouldve  been  no delay at all if L&G hadnt made the error in the first place.
In respect of the rate of interest to be applied, I agree that it should be the standard 8% simple rate 
used where  there  has been deprivation of money. But that does raise the question of how these 
additional monies  should be dealt with  a matter that has not as yet been raised.  
The interest  payment  will be a significant amount  some £15,000 (plus some further interest from 
date of payment to date of settlement). If this is paid to the estate and then passed on to Mrs Ps 
nephew then it will create a similar problem to that created  by the claim payment.  It will effectively be 
a gift that could in itself lead to an additional  inheritance  tax liability in the event  that Mrs P passes 
away within the next seven  years. 
This issue could be addressed formally, by way of an agreement  similar to that already put in place 
for the claim  amount. But in all the circumstances, given  the amount of time that has passed and the 
undoubted distress this matter has already  caused to Mrs P, I think  its reasonable to simply  direct 
L&G to make  the payment and leave Mrs P to make whatever arrangement she sees fit as the 
executor of Mr Ps estate.   
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently minded to 
uphold the complaint. 
I understand the indemnity,  costs and compensation aspects of the offer have been agreed between 
the parties and I consider these elements to all be fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  
In respect of the interest, Im currently of the view that Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited 
should pay the amount  of D, where:
A = interest on the claim amount of £250,000 at 8% per year simple,  for a period nine months.
B = interest on the amount at A at 8% per year simple for the period 1 February 2018 to the 
date of settlement;
C = interest  already paid;
D = A + B - C.
Ref: DRN6073786