K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr G was given eight  loans by Satsuma between April and November 2015.  Most of the 
loans were repayable  in weekly instalments  over a three month period. The final loan was 
repayable over a period of six months.  Mr G successfully repaid the first seven  loans but a 
balance remained on his final loan when  he made  his complaint to Satsuma. A summary of 
Mr Gs borrowing from Satsuma is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 14/04/2015 01/05/2015 £  100
2 22/05/2015 25/06/2015 £  100
3 26/06/2015 02/07/2015 £  100
4 29/08/2015 22/10/2015 £  100
5 31/12/2015 26/02/2016 £  100
6 16/03/2016 24/03/2016 £  100
7 08/04/2016 29/04/2016 £  100
8 07/11/2016 - £  200
When he first complained to Satsuma,  the lender agreed that it shouldnt  have given 
loans 1 to 5, or loan 7, to Mr G. So Satsuma paid him some compensation that it used to 
reduce the outstanding balance on the final loan. But Satsuma  didnt think  it had been wrong 
to give loan 6 or loan 8 to Mr G. So Mr G brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Ultimately  he concluded 
that it had been reasonable for Satsuma to give loan 6 to Mr G. But he didnt think  Satsuma 
should have given Mr G loan 8. And he thought  the lender ought to do more in relation  to 
removing information  about loan 7 from Mr Gs credit file. So he asked Satsuma to pay Mr G 
some further  compensation.
Satsuma accepted our adjudicators recommendations.  But when we put that offer to Mr Gs 
representatives we didnt receive a response. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr G accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN62820582Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
I think that the redress Satsuma has already paid to Mr G in relation to loans 1 to 5 is exactly 
what Id have asked  it to do if I had upheld Mr Gs complaint about these loans. So I dont 
think I need to consider  them further  in this decision.
By the time Mr G asked for loan 6 hed been borrowing from Satsuma for some  time. There 
had been a number of short breaks in his borrowing that might have given Satsuma some 
confidence that he wasnt entirely  dependent upon its lending. But on balance I think 
Satsuma should  have been  concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Gs true 
financial situation. So I dont think the checks it did here were proportionate. We asked Mr G 
for copies  of his bank  statements so we could see what  better checks  would have  shown 
Satsuma. He didnt  provide  these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks  would have 
shown Satsuma that it shouldnt have given  loan 6 to Mr G.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Satsumas  lending history with Mr G I think  by loan 7 the 
lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise  
harmful. And so Satsuma should  have realised that it shouldnt  provide further  loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Mr Gs seventh loan request and hed been borrowing from Satsuma 
for almost a year. Each of the loans Mr G had taken had been  repayable  over a 
period of around three months. But Mr G regularly paid those loans off far earlier than 
planned, but borrowed similar amounts shortly afterwards. I think that pattern of 
Ref: DRN62820583frequent borrowing and repaying  early should have indicated  to Satsuma that Mr G 
was most likely having significant  problems  managing his money. 
When Mr G asked for loan 7 he wasnt making any inroads to the amount he owed 
the lender. Each  of the loans hed taken at that point  had been for similar  amounts.
There was a gap of around  six months  between loans 7 and 8. That might have given 
some reassurance  to the lender that Mr G was getting on top of his finances. But the 
amount he asked to borrow  was double all his previous loans, and hed asked to 
repay the loan over twice the length of time. So on balance  I dont think the gap in 
Mr Gs borrowing was long enough  to clearly show he was no longer dependent  of 
borrowing from Satsuma.
I think that Mr G lost out because Satsuma  gave him loans 7 and 8 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Gs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So I dont  think Satsuma  should have agreed to give Mr G loans 7 or 8. Satsuma needs  to 
pay Mr G some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Satsuma should have agreed  to give Mr G loans 7 or 8. So Satsuma should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr G on loan 8  it has already refunded the 
interest and charges  Mr G paid on loan 7. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken before loan 7 means  any information recorded  about 
loans 7 and 8 is adverse. So all entries about  loans 7 and 8 should be removed  from 
Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
The compensation that Mr G was paid by Satsuma at the outset reduced  the balance  he 
owed on loan 8. And removing  any interest  and charges  from that outstanding balance  will 
reduce it further.  It is reasonable for Satsuma to use the additional compensation to fully 
repay loan 8, and then pay any additional  amount to Mr G.
Ref: DRN62820584my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold most of Mr Gs complaint and direct Provident Personal  
Credit Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6282058