K822xcomplaint
Miss J complains  Barclays Bank  UK PLC unfairly placed a fraud  marker  against her name.
background 
In 2018, Miss J complained to this service  because she had had a credit  card application 
denied.  She  said she discovered the reason why was because Barclays  had placed a fraud 
marker against her name in 2017.  Just before doing so, it had also sent her notice to close 
her account.   She said she had no reason  why it did that.
It is final response to her, Barclays said it had done nothing wrong  so Miss J brought her 
complaint to this service.
During our involvement, Barclays agreed to remove the marker.  Our investigator thought 
that it should also pay compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it had caused  Miss J 
by placing the marker  unfairly in the first place.  He  (the investigator) thought the offer of 
compensation should be £500.
Barclays agreed to that but Miss J did not. She said the financial impact on her had been 
severe and she thought  the offer should  be increased.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am pleased  to see that Barclays has agreed to remove  the marker  it had been 
placed unfairly in April 2017.  
What I then need to decide, in assessing the level of compensation, is the effect this has 
subsequently had on Miss J.  I remind myself that the first time she became of the marker 
was some 12 months later when she was declined for a credit card.
She has told this service that she has been  subjected to higher rates of interest on loans 
because of the marker, she has not been  able to have a credit  card to use for work purposes 
and that she had not been able to purchase  her home because as she puts it, she was 
blacklisted.
I have not seen any evidence to support the submissions which she makes.   Our investigator 
had previously asked  for that.  What I have seen  is a copy of a car loan agreement  and 
various screen shots of examples of loans available at various  interest rates.  Nothing I have 
seen takes me any further Im afraid.
I think the current offer of £500 is a fair and reasonable  one in the circumstances.  This 
figure falls into the bracket of what this service  describes as substantial and in the 
circumstances is not one which I will be increasing  on.
Ref: DRN60956552my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc must  pay Miss J £500 in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6095655