K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Liberty Mutual  Insurance Europe SE wont  pay her Landlords 
Insurance claim for theft from her let property.
background
In October  2018 Ms M reported a claim for theft from her let property to Liberty. The 
circumstances were  that her tenant,  who is a vulnerable person with a health condition,  at 
some stage either lost or had his keys stolen from him. He went  to live with his parents for a 
couple of weeks.  It was reported to Ms M by the tenants father that the copper piping for the 
heating system had been completely stripped out and white  goods stolen. This was 
discovered either when  the tenant returned to the house or on an inspection by his father 
(different circumstances  were reported  by Ms M and by her loss assessor).
Liberty sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the damage.  There was no sign of a forced break-
in. And as the tenant had lost his keys it was thought  that it was most likely that the entry to 
the property was by key. Under the theft cover  in the policy loss or damage  is only covered if 
caused by violent and forcible entry/exit or deception. Ms M argued  that the keys had been  
stolen by deception, so the claim should  be covered.
Liberty declined  to pay the claim as it said there  was no violent and forcible entry.  It didnt 
think there was any evidence to demonstrate that the keys had been stolen by deception.
Ms M referred  her complaint  to this service. She was unhappy that Liberty hadnt obtained 
the police  report  which had found a neighbours CCTV to show  five people  entering the 
property  it was clearly a professional job. She further said that Liberty said she was 
underinsured which she didnt believe she was.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that the exclusion clearly applied  and that it was 
fair for Liberty to apply  it.
Liberty accepted  my provisional decision.
Ms M didnt accept it, in particular she said:
The police have  footage of a break  in which shes provided and advised her its a 
genuine break in.
The tenant has severe epilepsy and the keys could've been lost after he'd left the house 
and had a fit as he had no recollection  of losing them.  
The house was empty and robbed when he'd moved back home to stay with parents 
after having  a severe fit. His dad was checking  the house regularly where he had his 
own key
They give two keys to their tenants,  one for the back and one for the front.  So she thinks 
the dad had the back door key. There's  a garden, with a wooden  gate/fence around it 
where to go through the gate you just need to lift the bar.
Ref: DRN60847302 my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My provisional findings were as follows: 
The theft or attempted theft cover for buildings and contents  under  the policy is subject to 
the following  exclusion:
We will not pay:
for loss or damage unless  caused by violent and forcible entry/exit or deception
The evidence is that its likely that the tenants  keys had been stolen or hed lost them. Its 
quite possible that this was at a house  party. So its likely that entry was made by key, 
certainly the inspection  of the property didnt show  that the property had been broken into. 
And, as our adjudicator pointed out, while the use of the key can be forcible, its not violent. 
And while there may be cases where we may find that its not fair to apply that exclusion, I 
dont think regrettably  that this is one of those cases.
Its common to find this type of exclusion, particularly in landlords  policies. When  the 
policyholder isnt living at the property theres an increased risk of this sort of offence 
occurring. The purpose of the exclusion is to limit the liability of the insurer  for actions by a 
defaulting or careless tenant and make  the cost of a policy competitive  for the policyholder. 
Whilst I understand that the tenant  here was vulnerable I do think  that losing house keys,  
especially if it was after a party, and not reporting it was careless. Since the exclusion is 
designed to protect  the insurers liability in circumstances such as happened here, I cant  
find it was unreasonable of the insurer to rely on it.
Ms M and her loss assessor have suggested  that the keys were  taken by deception. 
Unfortunately we dont  know  the exact circumstances in which the keys were taken. Ms M 
has set out to us the definition of theft in the Theft Act and believes this applies to the keys 
being taken. But the fact that they might have been  stolen  doesnt necessarily mean  that this 
was by deception. We dont know the full circumstances but I havent seen anything in the 
evidence to show that the tenant was deceived into handing over his keys.  
As regards  the claim handling I understand that Ms M was upset that Liberty didnt  get a 
copy of the police report before declining the claim. And she says she wasnt  told about the 
decision until February 2019, four months after the claim.
I appreciate that the police report may have been useful but the loss adjuster had already 
inspected the property and found no evidence of a break in i.e. there was no evident 
damage to the doors. And given that the tenant  had lost his keys I think it was reasonable to 
suppose the thieves had used them. The report itself didnt set out any evidence  that the 
property was broken  into  it sets out the evidence from the neighbours CCTV that Five 
persons were seen  to enter via the back door. 
As for the delay Ms M was using a loss assessor  and the repudiation of the claim was 
reported to them in late November 2018 and followed up with a formal  letter  in late 
December. I think this was a reasonable timeframe.
Ref: DRN60847303Lastly I understand that Ms M was concerned  that Liberty told her she was underinsured. 
She should seek advice on that as while she believes she had correctly  valued the rebuild 
cost of the property  she could  still be potentially  at risk in any future  claim.
I note what Ms M says.  I should clarify  that when I said the property hadnt been broken into 
I meant  that in the sense that the doors werent  damaged or violently opened. This was likely 
to be because the thieves had a key. I dont doubt  that a genuine burglary  took place  just 
that I dont  think the loss was caused  by violent and forcible entry/exit  or deception.
I appreciate what Ms M says about  the tenant.  But its clear that he left the house having lost 
the keys. Whilst we can only speculate how and when they were lost, its clear that they 
were stolen, and the key used to get into the property. But I still think  that the tenants 
actions in losing the key and not reporting it to Ms M were careless and that this is the sort of 
incident where I think it is fair to apply the exclusion in the policy. As Ive said there is a 
much greater risk for an insurer  to take on with a tenant rather than an owner  occupier.
So regrettably I cant find in Ms Ms favour.  My provisional findings are now final and form 
part of this final decision.
  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6084730