K820x#14complaint
Mr B says MEM Consumer Finance Limited,  trading  as Payday UK, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr B had eight loans with Payday UK between March 2013 and March 2017.  (I note our 
adjudicator said around  nine loans   but one of the loans was in fact a deferral.)  Its 
important to note the eighth loan commenced  around three  years  after the seventh loan 
ended. The loans were all for £100, expect for the second loan which  was for £210.
An adjudicator considered  this complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Payday UK needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
There may also come a point where  the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I dont think  this point arose in Mr Bs 
case. There were essentially two chains of lending  here; from March  2013 to April 2014, 
during which  time Mr B took out seven loans and then from March 2017, when Mr B took his 
eighth and final loan. The amounts he borrowed, with one exception, didnt increase and he 
didnt demonstrate any clear repayment  difficulties. So I consider its appropriate to look at 
each loan individually and look at whether Payday UK carried out proportionate checks.
  
With this said, I think  there are times when Payday UK couldve done more to check  whether 
some of the loans were  affordable.  Although  I dont  think the pattern of lending  is enough in 
itself to demonstrate  the loans were not affordable, Mr B did take out seven loans in the 
space of a year  and so I think at some point  its reasonable to say Payday UK needed  to 
do more to check what Mr B was saying about  his income and expenditure.
But Mr B hasnt provided any clear information  or supporting  evidence  about his income and 
expenditure at the time. Without this, Im unable to say whether better checks wouldve 
made a difference. And so it wouldnt be fair to uphold this complaint  against Payday UK.
I note that Mr B says he had thousands of payday loans  but Ive seen  no evidence of this.
Having considered everything  both parties  have  said, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  MEM  Consumer Finance Limited.
Ref: DRN69604752Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6960475