K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained to Shawbrook Bank  Limited (Shawbrook) about the way its dealt with 
a claim under section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  (s.75).
background
In July 2016 Mr P was sold a new gas boiler by a company called Greenheat  who arranged 
for its supply  and installation.  The boiler  was paid for using a loan provided by Shawbrook.
Mr P says he was mis-sold the boiler  as he was told it would be free under the government  
Green Deal Scheme.  Instead  he entered a loan with Shawbrook for a value of £3,900 to be 
repaid over 10-year term with interest.   He also says that soon after installation of the new 
boiler a leak was detected, and he had to pay a third party for the repair.
As Greenheat went into administration and no longer exists, Mr P complained  to Shawbrook.  
Under s.75 a finance provider can be held responsible to the same extent as the supplier for 
misrepresentations and breaches of contract.
One of our investigators  reviewed everything  and concluded that Mr P was made aware of 
the cost of the loan and had signed his agreement to the cost.  He  also explained that hed 
seen nothing to suggest Mr P would receive  the boiler for free.  But he did confirm that 
Shawbrook had agreed to accept responsibility for any defects with the boiler  under its 
guarantee  and so it would reimburse Mr P for the repairs  upon  the production of 
appropriate evidence  for what hes paid out.
Mr Ps disagreed, and his representative responded with several points.   In summary they 
said:
Mr P insists  he was told the boiler would be free under the government scheme.
Mr P signed to accept  a one-off  admin  fee of £50 and not a monthly direct debit.
Mr P signed the installation forms as he didnt know  the work was of a poor standard.
The boiler dangerously  leaked  for months  due to the poor fitting.
There was nothing  wrong with Mr Ps old boiler,  and he only changed as it was free.
The investigator didnt  feel the evidence supported Mr Ps claims, and so the complaint has 
been passed for a fresh  review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
When evidence is missing  or unclear, or there  are differing versions of events I must decide 
what I consider to be most likely  on balance.
I understand Mr P recollects that he was told the boiler would be free.  But Ive seen nothing 
to support that being the case.  In fact, all the evidence Ive seen from the point of sale 
contradicts that.
Ref: DRN62184612Mr P signed  the loan application form and credit  agreement which was completed with 
details of the financial transaction. It confirmed both the cost of system as the loan value, 
and that the loan payments would  be £49.93  each month for a term of 120 months.  In 
addition, he signed  the direct debit  mandate form giving instructions  to his bank that 
Shawbrook could collect funds from his account  monthly.
If unclear or if Mr P hadnt properly  read what he was signing,  soon  after Shawbrook sent 
him a letter confirming the loan funds had been  paid directly to Greenheat and setting out 
the repayment amounts and dates each  month.   So, on balance  Im satisfied Mr P was made  
aware of the costs.   It may be that he was told at the time that a newer, more efficient boiler 
would save him energy  and so reduce his bills. But as Mr P hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence from the time to show this, I cant reasonably ask Shawbrook to cancel the loan 
and rewind the agreement  now.
Mr P has provided a handwritten receipt from the business that repaired the boiler  when the 
leak was discovered.   It shows that he paid £260 for the work required to rectify the 
problems.  Shawbrook has confirmed  it will reimburse Mr P for those costs and I consider it 
is required to do so, under the guarantee of the boiler which  can no longer  be offered by the 
supplier. The receipt  provides details of what work  was undertaken, and Im satisfied it 
seems genuine.  But  Shawbrook can verify  it with the business if it so wishes.  
I realise Mr P is likely to be disappointed with my conclusions, but I must assure him Ive 
looked at everything  in full and impartially.  But the balance of evidence  suggests  he was 
made aware  of the loan and so the cost of the boiler  installation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited  in part.  
To put things right it should  reimburse him for the repair work that he paid for to resolve  the 
problems he experienced with the boiler.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6218461