K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that a kitchen supplied through a fixed sum loan agreement  with Hitachi
Capital (UK) Plc wasnt fitted correctly.
Mrs J also complains that Hitachi  Capital  (UK) Plc mis-sold her the fixed sum loan
agreement.
background
In April 2017, Mrs J entered into a contract  with a kitchen supplier, who Ill refer to as
Supplier W, to supply  and fit a kitchen. She financed the kitchen through a fixed  sum loan
agreement provided  by Hitachi. The total product and installation price  was £13,612.36.
Mrs J paid £2,000  of this total amount on her credit card.
Mis-sale of the loan
Mrs J says she had always agreed to pay for the kitchen on completion  and that she hadnt
realised a loan had been taken out until she saw the direct debit payments being  taken  from
her account.  Mrs J says the loan agreement was set up without her knowledge. Mrs J paid
£11,612.36 to settle  the outstanding balance in June  2018.
Hitachi say Mrs J did take out a fixed sum loan to finance the supply and fit of the kitchen
and that she wouldve been required to sign the agreement  electronically at the time. Mrs J
acknowledges she signed a sales contract, but she says she didnt realise  this wouldve
generated a loan agreement by default.  Hitachi also say Mrs J wouldve been  sent a copy  of
the agreement  along with annual statements  of the loan on a regular basis.
Quality of the kitchen
Mrs J also complains about  the quality of the kitchen that was fitted for her. In particular,
Mrs J says the following  things went wrong:
The fitters failed to attend Mrs Js property  on 18 occasions. Supplier W 
acknowledged that there  would  have been days where the fitters werent on site and 
that at some points,  this was because plastering  and electrical  works needed to take 
place prior to fitting the kitchen.
There was a gas leak from the hob  work was completed on 11 July 2017  and the 
gas leak happened on 19 July 2017. This left Mrs J without hot water,  heating  and no 
hob to cook with. Mrs J says she had no means  to shower before work. Mrs J also 
wasnt able to use the kitchen properly and had to eat takeaways which  she says 
cost her around £150. Supplier W said they are unsure why it was necessary for the 
engineer to shut the gas supply off to Mrs Js house  as the engineer  could have 
capped the gas supply to the hob off.
The floor was laid but the back door wasnt fixed back on properly.  Mrs J says the 
back door wasnt shutting properly or locking for three days. Mrs J says shes  been 
burgled previously so this made her nervous at night. Supplier W say they werent 
aware of this issue at the time, so they werent able to comment further on this.
The plasterer and painter did a poor job. Supplier  W say whilst the painter  may have 
been arranged  through the fitters, these works werent part of the contract held with 
Supplier W. Therefore,  they werent funded  by the fixed  sum loan Mrs J took out.
Ref: DRN61420792The hob and oven  werent delivered in a timely manner. Supplier K say the hob and 
oven were originally out of stock. And they recognise the installation had an initial  
delay by about a week.
The workmanship guarantee certificate  wasnt provided on completion of the works 
therefore, Mrs J thinks  this is a breach of compliance.
I note theres been a long history with Mrs Js complaint, and shes been to various  parties
about it. Ultimately, the amount Supplier W are prepared to offer Mrs J is £840.  This amount
covers the cost of Mrs J appointing a third party to get the outstanding issues  completed  in
addition to compensation for the inconvenience Mrs J has experienced.
Mrs J didnt accept this offer. Whilst Mrs J doesnt have any independent  quotes  of what  itll
cost to rectify the outstanding work, she initially told us she thought it would cost around
£400. Mrs J later told us that instead, she wants a refund of the installation price which was
£2,914 and £820 compensation in total for all the inconvenience caused.  Mrs J says this
amount will allow her to appoint her own workmen to rectify the outstanding issues which
are:
The main cupboard isnt securely  fixed.
There are cracks on the worktop which was caused when the fitter stood on it to 
rectify the overhead cupboard which fell.
There are plastering defects.
The hob has been installed  incorrectly which has caused it to fail.
In addition to this, Mrs J says she still hasnt got a gas and electric  safety  certificate. Mrs J
also says shes unhappy Hitachi  continued  to chase her for payments despite  settling  the
outstanding balance of the loan in 2018. Mrs J says this caused her stress and
inconvenience as she kept telling Hitachi she had already paid the outstanding  amount, but
they continued to send  arrears notices. Hitachi recognised this was due to an error on their
systems and they have  rectified any adverse information that may have been showing on
Mrs Js credit file as a result of this error.
When Mrs J raised  her concerns about  the quality of the kitchen to Hitachi in October 2017,
they placed her repayments on hold from October  2017 to March  2018, whilst they liaised
with Supplier W to rectify  some of the issues Mrs J raised with them. Hitachi say Supplier W
confirmed these issues had been  resolved with the exception of the worktop. Hitachi also
say some of the issues Mrs J refers to, such as the provision of the gas and electric safety
certificate, were covered under a separate contract  for specialist work - which  the fixed sum
loan with Hitachi didnt  finance.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Js concerns. Ultimately, our investigator thought  there
could have been more reasonable care and skill when  carrying  out the supply  and fit of
Mrs Js kitchen. Our investigator also thought it was unfair for Hitachi  to continue  to chase
Mrs J over a period of time for an outstanding  balance on the finance  which  she already
paid. So, she recommended Hitachi pay Mrs J £400  compensation  for the trouble and upset
caused. Hitachi agreed to this, but Ms J didnt.  She said Supplier W ignored her complaints
and hasnt responded to letters sent.  So, the complaint has been  passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision setting out the below:
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  means that Hitachi are liable for a
breach of contract in relation to a transaction financed by certain  types of credit  agreement.
Ref: DRN61420793In this case, I am satisfied the supply  and fitting of the kitchen was financed  by a fixed  sum
loan agreement.
Mrs J has made a number of representations  in her complaint  and I want  to assure her I
have considered everything  she has told us very carefully. I may not address  every  single
point directly, but I have  looked at everything  she has raised  in coming to my decision. If
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont
need to comment  on every individual representation  made to be able to reach what I think is
the right outcome.
Mis-sale of the loan
Mrs J has told us she never realised she was entering into a fixed sum loan in order  to pay
for the kitchen. Hitachi have said Mrs J wouldve been required to electronically sign the
agreement and that they also wouldve sent Mrs J paperwork about the agreement.  Hitachi
have provided  us with some of the paperwork,  which Ive looked  at.
In order to take out the loan, Mrs J wouldve needed to give Hitachi her details  including  her
bank details for the direct debits to be taken  out each month. I can see a welcome letter was
sent to Mrs J in July 2017. The welcome letter outlines details of the agreement and also the
repayment options. Hitachi have also provided  copies  of some of the arrears  letters  that
were sent to Mrs J  these confirm  the monthly instalments and what is outstanding. I note
there were also occasions where  Hitachi told Mrs J that theyd put her monthly instalments
on hold whilst they were  looking  into the issues she raised.
Mrs J has told us she remembers signing a sales contract. But that she didnt think this
would automatically  generate  a loan agreement. However, having  thought  about everything,
including the information provided  at the point  of sale, on balance, I think Mrs J was aware
she was taking out a loan.
In any event, I appreciate  Mrs J has said she didnt take out the fixed sum loan but she
wants the protection that comes with this type of loan. Now that Ive found Mrs J did on
balance, have knowledge of the loan, Ill move on to consider  the protection provided by it.
Quality of the kitchen
In deciding whats a fair way to resolve  Mrs Js complaint, I have to take account of relevant
law, amongst other things. As Ive explained,  section 75 of the CCA and also The Consumer
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) are the relevant law in this case. The CRA requires that goods
supplied should  be of satisfactory  quality.  And that services should be carried out with
reasonable care and skill. If goods  werent of satisfactory quality or services  werent
performed with reasonable care and skill it would potentially be a breach of contract.
Mrs J has provided  us with a clear and detailed timeline of events in terms of what went
wrong with the kitchen.  And also, what was rectified  and what  hasnt been. I note Supplier W
have acknowledged  that there have been things  that have gone  wrong  with the supply and 
fit of Mrs Js kitchen,  so Ill address  what Ive considered to be the relevant and key issues.
Mrs J says there was a gas leak in the kitchen eight days after the work had been completed
which left her without any hot water  and cooking facilities  for a few days. I appreciate
Supplier W have said the engineer who attended  Mrs Js property didnt necessarily need to
turn the gas supply  off for Mrs Js house. However, regardless of this, I dont  think  Mrs J
Ref: DRN61420794expected there to be a gas leak with a kitchen  that had just been newly fitted.
I note Supplier W have acknowledged  a screw  pierced  the back  panel of one of the
cupboards and also that the overhead cupboard hadnt been fixed  properly. As a result, the
cupboard fell on Mrs J. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a cupboard to not be
secured properly causing it to fall and I dont think  this shows  the cupboard  was fitted with
care. In addition to this, Mrs J says due to the back door not being fitted correctly, she wasnt
able to lock the door for three days.  Supplier W say they werent made aware of this at the
time. And whilst this may have been  the case, I dont think  its fair to say the door was fitted
with care as Mrs J was unable to lock it after the flooring had been  laid.
Mrs J has provided  us with photo  evidence of the outstanding issues in the kitchen. I can see
there is damage to the worktop  and theres  also part of a unit that hasnt been  secured
properly. I note Supplier W have already acknowledged the defective  worktop  and it seems
from what both parties  have told us, this was caused by impact  rather  than a manufacturing
or installation fault. I can also see one of the cupboards  has been fitted lower than the other,
resulting in a gap between the top of the cupboard  and the ceiling which  Mrs J has said
shouldnt have been there.  Having  thought  about this, I think its fair to conclude  the works
havent been carried out with reasonable care and skill.
In relation to the workmanship guarantee that Mrs J says she didnt receive,  I can see its
purpose was to provide protection against faulty  or defective workmanship for two years.
Supplier W say this wouldve been  given to Mrs J at the time the works were completed and
theres no reason  why they wouldnt have provided  it to her. In any case, Supplier W say
they would  have honoured any work required  under the two-year guarantee, regardless of
whether Mrs J had a copy of the certificate  or not. As Ive explained, Mrs J has told us there
are still some issues outstanding and Ill gone  on to explain  an award I think is fair.
I note Mrs J has said she hasnt been provided  with a gas and electric safety certificate.  And
also, that there were  defects with the plastering  and paintwork.  Hitachi  have said these
werent included  in the supply and fit contract  they financed. Ive looked  at the contract and
can see these fall under the specialist works which is covered by a separate  cost  these
works arent funded as part of the fixed sum loan agreement  Mrs B took out. So, I dont think
Hitachi can be held responsible for these.
Putting things right
Ive considered all of the issues Mrs J experienced in relation to the supply and fit of the
kitchen. Whilst Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract  for every issue,  I do
think there could have been  more  reasonable care and skill with the fitting of Mrs Js kitchen
for the reasons Ive already explained. Mrs J says she wishes to appoint workmen herself  to
rectify the outstanding issues and having considered  everything, I think an award of £400 will
fairly allow Mrs J to do this.
I also think Hitachi should pay Mrs J £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
caused when  asking her to make a payment shed already made. I say this because Mrs J
told Hitachi several times throughout the two years that she had already  settled  the finance
in full and she was unsure why they continued  to ask her for an outstanding amount. So,
whilst Mrs J may not have been declined credit  as a result of any negative information on her
credit file, she was understandably worried and concerned about this issue.
I note there  is a more  generous offer from Supplier W available  to Mrs J, so she may wish to
Ref: DRN61420795accept this offer instead. But if she does, anything she gets from Supplier W would be
deducted from the award I have asked Hitachi to make.
Responses to my provisional decision
Hitachi responded and confirmed they accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs J responded and provided  a detailed explanation of why she didnt agree with everything 
Ive said. Ive summarised below what I consider to be the most relevant elements of her 
response:
Mrs J was told at the point of sale that the fixed sum loan was mandatory, despite her 
telling Supplier W that she could  pay the balance in full. Mrs J also says payment 
shouldve been made to Supplier W on completion of the kitchen.
Mrs J has acknowledged that part of her complaint falls under the specialist works as 
set out in my provisional decision. But that there  are other parts  of the kitchen that 
require fixing such as some of the cupboards.
Mrs J reiterated that Hitachi continued to chase  her for a payment shed already 
made  despite  telling them  shed  made  the payment.
The gas leak wasnt linked to the hob and instead, was due to a failure to properly 
cap a mains supply pipe.
Mrs J hasnt received any offers from Supplier W and she says only offers  from 
Hitachi can be considered as this is the business her complaint is against.  
Additionally, Mrs J said Hitachi previously  breached GDPR  when she was sent bank 
account details  of another customer with the same name. 
Mrs J says shell need to appoint a professional kitchen consultant to rectify  the 
issues. This will include an initial report to determine  whether the installation 
complies with current regulations.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand Mrs J thinks that the length  
of this investigation has been  a result of not challenging misleading information  provided by 
Hitachi. I can assure Mrs J that I have considered all the information  on file and reached  an 
independent view. I can only apologise for the time it took to consider Mrs Js complaint.
I appreciate Mrs J has said she didnt want to take out the loan and that she was advised it 
was mandatory  in order to form the contract. However, I havent  seen any evidence to 
persuade me the loan was positioned  in a way that it was mandatory. Additionally, Mrs J 
previously told us she thought she was signing a sales contract  and that a loan wasnt  
mentioned at the point of sale. Ive considered what Mrs J has said that payment shouldve  
been made once  the fitting  of the kitchen was completed and Mrs J shouldve  been given the 
opportunity to authorise the payment to be made to Supplier W. Having  looked  at the fixed 
sum loan agreement, it sets out that the total amount is to be repaid in 48 monthly payments. 
In the welcome  letter  Mrs J was sent, it confirmed the monthly  payments would begin  in 
August 2017.  So, I think it clearly  set out that this loan was to be repaid on a monthly basis. 
Mrs J has pointed to clause 2.1.6  in the terms and conditions of the contract. This clause 
says an electrical certificate  is to be provided  in order to conform to current legislation. The 
clause explains this certificate is to be included as part of the installation  quote Mrs J 
received (which didnt  include  the specialist work). I can see the installation quote of £2,914  
Ref: DRN61420796is included as part of the overall price of the kitchen which was £13,612.36. Ive relooked  at 
the terms and conditions of the contract and I think Mrs J has a point here.  If Mrs J hasnt 
received this as shes said, this would be considered  a breach of contract. Therefore, Hitachi 
would be required to provide Mrs J with an electrical certificate as set out in the contract. If 
Hitachi cant provide  this, they should  arrange for an electrical inspection  to take place and 
pay for an electrical certificate.
Mrs J says she was sent details of another customer which  is a breach of GDPR. I 
appreciate this wouldve been  of some concern to Mrs J. Hitachi  have  acknowledged  there  
was some confusion over an offer which Supplier W made to Mrs J which was meant to be 
for another  customer,  with the same name. If Mrs J wishes  to take matters further, she can 
contact the Information  Commissioners  Office.
I appreciate Mrs J says she hasnt received any offers from Supplier W and that only offers  
from Hitachi can be considered. As I set out in my provisional decision, the offer made by 
Supplier W was one that Mrs J couldve accepted, regardless of the fact that her complaint  is 
against Hitachi. However, I note Mrs J has set out the amount shed like instead   which, in 
any case, is significantly more than the offer made by Supplier W.
I acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs J as a result  of Hitachi 
continuing to chase her for a payment shed made. And my opinion  still remains that I think 
Mrs J should be awarded £150 compensation for this.
Mrs J has outlined the issues that are due to be rectified. And as I said in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think the kitchen was fitted  with reasonable care and skill. Im still of the 
opinion that I think an award of £400  will allow Mrs J to rectify the outstanding issues.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc to pay Mrs J a total of £550. I also require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to provide Mrs J with 
an electrical certificate or pay for one if theyre  unable to provide this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Leanne McEvoy  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6142079