K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Pic trading as First Direct charged him excessive and 
disproportionate overdraft  fees which he found unaffordable. To settle matters he'd like a 
refund of all charges  plus interest.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Ms complaint in my provisional decision. In that decision  I 
also explained why I wasnt intending to uphold his complaint. Below, Ill again summarise  
the background to his complaint and my provisional  findings, so that all relevant information 
is in this one decision.
Mr M complained  to First Direct  about excessive and disproportionate  overdraft fees he was 
charged. It didn't uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with HSBC's  response, Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Initially our 
adjudicator didn't think we could consider this complaint  because the charges were applied  
more than six years ago-  and more than three years  had elapsed since Mr M became 
aware  he had cause  to complain.
Our adjudicator issued  a second  view. He explained that although Mr M's complaint would  
usually be outside  the jurisdiction of this service, First Direct had given consent its consent 
to our service  looking into this complaint.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that Mr M's complaint should be upheld.  Due to the lapse 
of time,  First Direct hadn't been able to provide copies of Mr M's bank  statements from 
2004. But it provided details of the historic charges and interest it'd applied. The adjudicator  
didn't think these were excessive or disproportionate and the terms and conditions  allowed  
First Direct to apply the charges and interest.
Mr M disagrees with the adjudicator's  view and has asked for an ombudsman's decision. He 
thinks that for too long big banks  think they can take advantage of vulnerable  clients and 
hide behind policies and procedures. He says First Direct should have done more to help 
him and he wasn't advised of the charges  at the time.
In my provisional decision  I said:
First Direct has told us that Mr M had a banking relationship with it between February 2004  
and June  2004. In March  2004 his account went over the agreed overdraft limit of £500  - 
and as a result interest and charges  were applied. First Direct's customer  notes indicate  that 
he was sent letters about his overdrawn account. His banking facilities were withdrawn  in 
April 2004 and a repayment plan of £25 per month was set up. Mr M asked for a refund of 
fees in late April 2004 but this was declined  by First Direct.
First Direct has provided information to show  it applied overdraft fees of £30 and £55 on
23 April 2004. It also applied debit interest amounting to £14.97  on 24 March 2004,
23 April 2004, 24 May 2004 and16 June 2004.
In my decision I won't look at whether  the charges  applied by First Direct  are themselves  
unfair or excessive. This is because a "test case"  heard by the Supreme  Court in 2009  
crystallised our approach to these sorts of complaints. The Supreme Court ruled  that these  
Ref: DRN64678002sorts of charges  do not generally  amount to penalties  and cannot be challenged on the 
grounds that they are too high. So I can only look at whether the charges were applied 
fairly  and reasonably in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr M's account.
The terms and conditions say:
"Unauthorised overdrafts will be charged  interest at our Unauthorised Overdraft Interest 
Rate. We will also charge  our usual fees for unauthorised  overdrafts - clause 4.5.2; and
"You should not exceed any agreed  overdraft limit unless you get our agreement  first"- 
clause 5.1.3;  and
"if your account does  go overdrawn  without an agreed overdraft or if you go over an 
agreed  overdraft limit we will charge interest  at the First Direct Unauthorised Overdraft 
Interest Rate  on the amount by which  your account is overdrawn  or the amount that is 
over your agreed  limit. We will also charge an Overdraft Fee for any statement month 
when the balance on your account  exceeds  your limit. whether for one day or more ... 
Our overdraft fees are published  in our Interest Rates  and Charges  leaflet and on our 
internet website which you can find at first.direct .com"-  clause 5.1.7.
Based on the extracts  from the terms and conditions I've detailed above, I think the 
charges and interest were applied by First Direct in accordance with the terms and 
conditions applicable to Mr M's account.
Due to the length of time that has passed since  First Direct applied  the charges, it hasn't  
been able to provide a copy of the Interest and Charges leaflet  referred to in the terms and 
conditions. Where I no longer have all the information  I'd ideally like, I make my decision  
based on what I think is most  likely to have happened.
The information I've seen  shows Mr M had only recently opened his account  with First 
Direct so I think  it's more  likely  than not that the Interest and Charges leaflet referred  to 
in the terms and conditions would have been made available  to him at the time he 
opened his account. But, in any event,  I also note that the charges were  also stated to 
be available on the website at the time. And I have no reason to doubt that this was the 
case.  So I think the charges  and interest  were fairly applied  in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of his account.
I can also see that when Mr M complained to First Direct about the charges  it applied, the 
notes show a repayment  plan was agreed  with him. Based on the limited information now 
available to me, I think First Direct treated  him fairly  because it agreed a repayment plan 
with him rather than requiring him to pay his outstanding balance immediately.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision.
First Direct  hasnt  provided any further submissions for my consideration. Mr M disagrees  
with my provisional decision and he thinks it protects the banking industry which  exploits little 
people.
Ref: DRN64678003my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M feels strongly that big banks take advantage of small customers but for 
the reasons Ive explained above  I think  First Direct treated him fairly. As neither party has 
provided any further evidence or arguments  for my consideration,  I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision. It follows that I do not uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6467800