K820x#14complaint
Miss W is complaining that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly  
forced her to cancel  her car insurance policy.
Advantage has been represented by a broker in the handling of this complaint,  but for ease 
of reference I shall refer to any actions done  by the broker as being done by Advantage.
background
Miss W took out a car insurance  policy through Advantage.  Under  the terms of the policy she 
was required to fit a telematics box. The box recorded certain aspects of her driving, which  
included the time of day she was driving, her braking, acceleration and speed. Each is given 
a score out of 100. Using this data Advantage gave her an overall score out of 100. The 
policy terms said, if this score  dropped  below  40, shed be sent a warning and her cover 
might be cancelled.
On 31 October 2018, Advantage wrote  to Miss W to say her score had dropped below 40 
and said her policy may be cancelled. Advantage spoke to Miss W the next day and gave 
advice about how to improve her score. But on 15 November 2018 it wrote  to her again to 
say her score was still under 40 and it said it would review the matter  again after 200 miles,  
but reiterated it may cancel the policy if the score didnt improve.
On 23 November 2018 Advantage wrote to Miss W to say it was aware it had recorded some 
speeding data incorrectly, so it said it would review her scores.  But on 29 November 2018 it 
wrote to Miss W again  to say it had updated the scores, but the scores still remained below 
40. It also said, as her score was still below 40, it would cancel the policy in seven days. 
Miss W later spoke  to Advantage and was given further advice about how to improve her 
score and she says she was told she had seven days to improve this or it would cancel the 
policy. So she said she understood she could prevent the cancellation. Advantage later 
informed her this was incorrect as the cancellation  process had already started. Given this, 
Miss W cancelled the policy to prevent having a cancellation marker on her record.
Miss W complained that Advantage  had looked to cancel the policy. She said shed had no 
warnings about  her driving style throughout the policy and it was only as she got close to 
renewal that it looked to cancel the policy. Shes unhappy she was given advice about how 
to improve her driving score and was told Advantage wouldnt cancel the policy  if she 
improved her driving score. But Advantage later told her this was incorrect as the 
cancellation process had already started. She said this matter had caused her significant 
financial difficulties as she didnt  gain a years No Claims  Discount (NCD).  So she says her 
annual premium was very high the following year again.
Advantage said there wasnt  anything to suggest  the telematic device wasnt working  correctly.  
It acknowledged there was an issue with the way it was reviewing speeding data. But it said it 
had reviewed this and it hadnt  impacted Miss Ws score.  It was satisfied the scores  it had 
used to assess Miss Ws driving were accurate. So it thought  it had acted fairly in providing the 
initial warnings and then subsequently saying  it would cancel the policy.  However, it accepted 
it had given misleading advice in incorrectly saying  it wouldnt cancel the policy if Miss W 
improved her score. So it agreed to waive the £45 cancellation fee as compensation.
Ref: DRN69449802Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  Advantage had used correct  
data to calculate Miss Ws driving  scores. And she said the terms of the policy  entitled  
Advantage to cancel  the policy in these  circumstances. She acknowledged  Advantage had 
given some incorrect advice, but she thought its decision to waive  the £45 cancellation fee 
was fair compensation.
Miss W didnt agree  with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Under the terms of Miss Ws insurance  policy, Advantage is entitled to cancel  the policy if 
the score  fell below  40. But it was also required to give her appropriate notice.  This would 
give Miss W time to improve her driving score. I can see that Advantage sent Miss W two 
warning emails saying that her score was below 40 and if it didnt increase to over 40 her 
policy would be cancelled.  It also spoke to her in between this to give advice on how to 
improve her driving.
Miss Ws score remained under 40, so Advantage wrote to say it would cancel the policy.  In 
doing so, Im satisfied  Advantage  acted  in line with the terms of the contract. Miss W has 
questioned whether the scores Advantage used  were accurate   in particular referring to the 
letter it sent her saying it had recorded  some incorrect  speeding  records.
Advantage has provided the data from the telematics box. Ive reviewed all of the data over 
the entire time she had the box, but particularly focused on the data in October and 
November 2018  where Advantage says her score dropped  below 40. It seems to me the 
primary factors in causing a low score was down to heavy  braking and accelerating  and also 
using the car late at night. 
I reviewed the speeding  incidents  recorded. I think there was one incorrect  speeding incident 
on 12 October 2018. But Im satisfied  the other entries were  correct. However, I dont think 
this incident was the reason the score fell below  40 and Advantage has confirmed that was 
the case. 
It appears that the low score seems to be down  to a large number of heavy braking and 
accelerating incidents throughout the time Miss W had the policy.  I can also see there were 
a few incidents around the time the score  dropped  below 40 that Miss W was using the car 
between the hours of 10pm and 6am, which impacts  the score.
Advantage has given us a lot of information about  how these boxes work and record data. 
Im satisfied that Miss Ws ongoing  score was fairly below 40 at the times it said it was, even 
with the corrected speeding event.  And I think this was down to Miss Ws driving style, not 
anything to do with the box. So I dont think it was unfair for Advantage to have sent the 
warnings it did and ultimately say that it would cancel the policy.
Ref: DRN69449803I acknowledge Advantage gave Miss W false hope that she could prevent the policys  
cancellation if she improved her driving  score. But I dont think shes  lost out as a result of 
this as the reason the policy was cancelled was because of the way Miss W was driving  the 
car rather than anything Advantage did wrong. Advantage has agreed to waive the £45 
cancellation fee in compensation for any distress and inconvenience it unfairly caused. And I 
think thats fair compensation.
I appreciate Miss W is unhappy she wasnt able to generate a NCD for the year which she 
says caused her insurance premium to be significantly higher.  But, given I think  Advantage 
was entitled to cancel the insurance policy, I cant say it unfairly caused her to lose her NCD.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I think  Advantage Insurance  
Company Limiteds  offer to waive the cancellation fee of £45 is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this complaint. It should pay this to her directly if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2021.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6944980