K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bluestone Mortgages Limited  changed the terms and conditions 
of their mortgage without  notice, and that their mortgage product was mis-sold  between 
lenders leading to confused messages.
To resolve  their complaint  they want:
an apology with the date their terms and conditions  changed;
financial compensation based  on the rate of 4.8% over base charged  per month for their 
mortgage product  against a "standard" average  high street mortgage product (calculated 
from that date).
background
In 2006 Mr and Mrs B took out an interest-only mortgage which was later assigned to 
successive lenders and came to be owned  by Bluestone. I will use that name to include its 
predecessors. The mortgage was repaid in October 2018 when Mr and Mrs B moved to a 
new house with a capital repayment  mortgage from a different lender.
On 19 August 2018 Mr and Mrs B made a complaint to Bluestone. They  said their financial 
objective had been to raise their family and then down-size to another  property prior to the 
maturity of the mortgage product. They would repay  the mortgage with part of the equity and 
possibly a lump sum from personal savings, and/or continue with the original mortgage  
product as it was portable.  But Bluestone had placed these  plans in limbo. Based on the 
original mortgage  product  terms and conditions their mortgage was portable.  But when they 
approached Bluestone it said the mortgage product  wasnt portable.
Bluestone didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  so they brought it to us. They  said their 
complaint was about Bluestones stating  that it hadnt changed its mortgage terms (or the 
content of its terms and conditions),  when in fact it had. Each time the mortgage was sold 
on, the new lenders wrote  confirming the terms and conditions hadnt  changed  when they 
had. The porting option of this mortgage was a selling point and one they had accepted  at 
the time as good. However,  when  they asked about selling their house  and moving the 
mortgage, this option  wasnt available. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint be upheld. She said 
Bluestone hadnt  given  any consideration to their request. Porting wasnt guaranteed  but she 
didnt think Bluestone had treated Mr and Mrs B fairly  when it didnt consider their request.
Looking at the new mortgage  offer the investigator could see that Mr and Mrs B hadnt  made  
a financial loss by having to go to a new lender. Theyd received a better  interest rate and 
also now had a repayment mortgage which meant they were reducing the balance.  She 
recommended Bluestone  pay compensation of £300  to Mr and Mrs B for not considering 
their request  and causing upset and distress.
Neither party accepted the investigators recommendation so the complaints been passed to 
me for review.
Ref: DRN69416402my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The porting  provisions relating to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage were (as one would expect) 
contained not in the terms and conditions (the GMAC-RFC mortgage conditions  2005) but in 
the special conditions of the mortgage  offer dated 17 May 2006 which say:
11. The interest  rate will be fixed at the rate of 5.39% as specified in this Offer of Advance  
until 01/07/2008 (the Fixed Rate Period). From and including 01/07/2008 your mortgage will 
revert to the standard variable rate applicable  at the time. You will be advised  when changes 
are due to your monthly  payments.
12. If, in the future, you want to move home you may be able to transfer  this mortgage 
product to a new property  without incurring any early repayment charge. This option  is 
available subject to your meeting certain criteria and our approval. You will also need  to 
repay this mortgage  at the same time as your new mortgage is taken out with us. We 
recommend that you take independent professional  financial  and legal advice regarding  
portability before deciding whether to request this facility. Approval for this should be sought  
when you wish to move your existing mortgage  product to a new property.
 
13. The Mortgage Conditions are hereby varied. If the amount owed is repaid in whole or in 
part or the product conditions varied  prior to and including  30th June 2008  we will require 
you to pay an early  repayment charge. The early repayment charge will be calculated  on the 
proportion of the amount owed repaid or subject  to the variation (as the case  may be), this 
will be regardless of any notice given. Prior to 1st July 2007  the charge will be equal to 4%. 
From 1st July 2007 to 30th June 2008 (inclusive)  the charge  will be 3%. From and including 
1st July 2008 the early repayment  charge will not apply.
In other  words, there  was an initial two-year fixed interest mortgage  product  which  expired 
on 30 June 2008.  If the mortgage were repaid during that period there would be a substantial 
early repayment charge  (ERC). However if this was due to a house move,  and the new 
house was also being mortgaged to Bluestone,  the fixed-interest product could (subject  to 
meeting criteria) be moved  to the new mortgage and there would be no ERC. This process is 
known as porting. For repayment after the two years,  there would be no ERC.
Porting hasnt historically related to the mortgage loan itself, but to the interest rate product 
which sits on top of it. When a mortgage  product is ported,  that meant that the old mortgage 
on the old property  is paid off, a new mortgage on a new property is granted,  and then the 
interest rate product  associated with the old mortgage is moved  to the new one. This feature 
would have helped  Mr and Mrs B avoid paying  an ERC during the period of the fixed-interest  
rate. 
By the time Mr and Mrs B made their porting request in 2018, there was no interest rate 
product. The fixed  interest  mortgage product had expired in 2008. After that, there was no 
contractual barrier  (or ERC) to prevent Mr and Mrs B from selling  the first house, paying  off 
the Bluestone  mortgage from the proceeds, and buying the second house with a new 
mortgage from Bluestone  or another lender. Which is what  they did.
Mr and Mrs B are, I think, under the impression that the effect of clauses 11-13 above was 
that they could  do all this without having  to apply for a new mortgage. But that was never  
Ref: DRN69416403going to be possible. A mortgage is a charge  over a particular property. If its a different 
property, there has to be a new mortgage. Thats why the clause says:
You will also need to repay this mortgage at the same time as your new mortgage is taken 
out with us.
However, the previous practice was of course  substantially affected by the 2014  mortgage 
market review which imposed stricter controls on lending. Following that review, sometimes 
the only way a borrower can get a loan on a different property is to move  the mortgage  they 
have to a new lender.  It might have been  the only way Mr and Mrs B could have  moved their 
interest-only mortgage to a different property  if they couldnt get a mortgage  on the same 
terms, or any other terms,  again.
But in its response  to Mr and Mrs Bs enquiry dated 5 July 2018, Bluestone merely said:  we 
must make you aware that Bluestone Mortgages  no longer offers  this option of a portable 
mortgage. I wonder  if Bluestone  was referring here to the mortgage loan itself, not to the 
fixed interest-rate product,  as the latter had long expired. And for the same reason a transfer  
of the mortgage  loan must have been  what Mr and Mrs B had in mind, as they didnt have an 
interest rate product  to port.
However, the terms and conditions  of the mortgage did say you may be able to transfer this 
mortgage product  to a new property and that This  option is available  subject to your 
meeting certain  criteria and our approval.  Bluestone took no steps to consider this option in 
line with its current lending criteria before deciding whether or not it would give its approval. 
It doesnt follow that approval  would have been given, the product having  expired, but I can 
see why Mr and Mrs B felt Bluestone was going back on the terms of their mortgage  
agreement by dismissing their request and simply saying we dont do this anymore.  
In the event, Im pleased  to hear that Mr and Mrs B found an alternative mortgage  elsewhere 
with a different  lender. And it seems to me that the new mortgage  theyve found was better 
for them in all the circumstances. But Im persuaded that Bluestones failure  to even consider  
their request, in line with the mortgages  terms and conditions, caused significant  upset  and 
distress. Theres a duty to act fairly under the regulations and even closed book lenders 
who dont provide new lending or interest  rate products should be engaging with interest-
only mortgage customers.
For these reasons I dont  consider I should depart from the investigators recommendation 
that Bluestone  pay compensation of £300  to Mr and Mrs B for not considering their request.
Ref: DRN69416404my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Bluestone  Mortgages  Limited  to pay 
Mr and Mrs B £300 compensation for the upset and inconvenience  caused to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6941640