K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about Home Retail Group  Card  Services Limited (Argos) recording a 
default on her credit  file.
Mrs C has been represented by her husband  in bringing her complaint to our service.  But for 
ease of reference my decision  will refer to Mrs C only.
background
Mrs C opened an Argos store card in November 2013.
On 19 December 2015 Mrs C used the store card to purchase goods worth about  £60. The 
purchase was put on a three month buy now pay later plan, which meant no repayments had 
to be made  until 19 March 2016.
Argos sent monthly account statements  to Mrs C but she didnt receive them as they were 
sent to her previous address. No payments were made towards the purchase either  before  
or after 19 March 2016.  So, after sending payment reminder letters,  Argos  sent a default  
notice to Mrs C on 1 June  2016 that gave her 14 days to bring her account  up to date. These 
were also sent to her previous address.
As the account  remained unpaid Argos recorded  a default on Mrs Cs credit  file on 
29 June 2016.  They also assigned the debt to a third party  for recovery.
The third party wrote to Mrs C seeking payment. At this point, due to interest  and charges 
being charged, the total amount owed  had increased to about £115.
Mrs C called Argos on 26 July 2016  following  receipt  of the third partys letter. She was 
unhappy that she hadnt received any statements, or requests for payment, before  this due 
to Argos holding her previous address.  She said shed given her correct address  to the store  
staff member when she made  the purchase in December 2015. The adviser updated  Mrs Cs 
address in the call but explained that she would have to contact the third party to settle the 
outstanding amount. He provided Mrs C with contact  details to do this.
Mrs C settled the debt with the third party. Argos recorded this as having been received on 
4 August 2016.  Mrs Cs credit file was then updated to confirm  the default had been 
satisfied. 
Mrs C complained to Argos in November 2018  about the default recorded on her credit file. 
She said it was Argos error  for not updating her address  at the time of purchase which led to 
it being applied.  And because of the default shed had a house  purchase fall through. She 
considered Argos  responsible for this due to inaccurately recording the default. She wanted  
compensation for costs incurred and for the default  to be removed from her credit file.
Argos didnt uphold the complaint. They said correspondence was sent to the address held 
on Mrs Cs account and which she provided  when it was set up in November 2013. And 
although Mrs C says she provided her new address when making the purchase in December 
2015, the store doesnt have the facility to change addresses on an Argos  store card 
account. They added that it was also the responsibility of the account holder to inform them 
of non-receipt of statements. 
Ref: DRN62554842Argos said the default had been registered  correctly and as a responsible lender theyre 
required to record a true and accurate  reflection of how the account has been  managed.  So 
they wouldnt remove it from Mrs Cs credit file and didnt think  any compensation was due.
The complaint was referred  to our service.  Our investigator looked in to it but she didnt think  
Argos acted unfairly by recording the default.  She explained that while  Mrs C says she told 
the staff member of her new address, Argos has confirmed  addresses cant  be updated in 
store and there wasnt anything to show this happened. The investigator  also thought there  
was an onus on Mrs C to be aware  of her purchases.  So if statements werent received then 
it wasnt unreasonable to have expected her to have enquired with Argos  about this. 
Because of this, she didnt ask Argos to do anything  further.
Mrs C disagreed and so the matter has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs C didnt  receive correspondence from Argos following the 
purchase she made in December 2015, due to them  having her previous address.  This 
meant Mrs C didnt  receive account statements, payment reminder letters or the default  
notice sent to her. But what Ive considered is whether I think  Argos are responsible for that 
or if they acted unfairly when recording the default.  And although I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs C, I dont think they are and Ill explain why.
Mrs C says that when she made  the purchase in December 2015 she set up a second store 
card account  and that she also provided  the staff member with her new address. There 
arent any records of this conversation and so I cant be sure what was discussed. But Argos 
has confirmed that Mrs C only has the one account  and so the purchase made was put on 
the existing account. Its unclear why Mrs C was led to believe a new account was opened, 
possibly a misunderstanding. But even so I dont think this issue affects  the crux of Mrs Cs 
complaint. 
Ive carefully considered  Mrs Cs claim that she told the staff member of her new address at 
that time.  While I appreciate Mrs Cs recollection  of events theres  unfortunately nothing  to 
evidence this. And Im also aware  that Argos  has confirmed an address cant be updated in 
store. So, on balance, its difficult for me to conclude that this happened when the staff 
member wouldve known  they couldnt  action  such a request.
In any event, Ive also considered  that Mrs C has said that when no statements arrived she 
attributed this to the busy Christmas period. Im therefore satisfied that Mrs C knew a 
payment was due either at that time or in the near future. So while  I appreciate she had 
other responsibilities  and might not have  considered  this as a priority, I think its reasonable 
to have expected her to have contacted Argos about this  particularly when statements 
werent received,  in February or March, after the Christmas period. Had she done so they 
wouldve updated her address  and Mrs C wouldve known when payments  whether partial 
or in full  were  due.
I understand Mrs C has questioned  why Argos didnt attempt to contact her by phone or 
email. And that had she been made aware of the amount owed then she couldve paid it 
instantly as it was easily  affordable.  But while Ive no reason to disbelieve  Mrs C could afford 
Ref: DRN62554843it, I dont  think Argos  acted wrongly  by only communicating via letter. I think  its reasonable 
for them to use this method as a way of corresponding with their customers and I dont  think 
theyre under any obligation to use alternative methods due to non-response. But rather, as 
Ive established,  I think Mrs C ought  to have contacted  Argos when she didnt receive the 
statements she expected.
It follows that I dont think Argos are responsible for Mrs Cs address not being updated or 
for her not receiving correspondence  in respect  of her account. 
Mrs C was more than three months  behind with her payments when Argos reported  a default 
on her account. So I think  Argos  acted fairly in reporting the default when they did and that 
they acted in line with industry  guidelines when doing so.
I understand Mrs C says the Argos adviser she spoke to accepted  that theyd made an error 
in sending the correspondence to her old address. And that when  she made the payment to 
settle the debt she was told the records would be updated to reflect  this. Ive listened to the 
call of 26 July 2016 and I dont think the Argos adviser said it was an error on their part. The 
payment Mrs C made to settle the debt was with the third party.  So if she was misinformed in 
that call I dont think it would be fair to hold Argos responsible for that.
I sympathise with the impact the default  has had on Mrs C as she says a house purchase fell 
through because  of it. I also appreciate  that she doesnt think  the effect it has had, or will 
have, fits the error as itll remain  on her credit file for six years. But while  Ive taken this in to 
account, I dont  think  Argos has acted unfairly  by recording  the default  on Mrs Cs credit file 
as theyre obliged to report  accurate information.  
There remains an option open to Mrs C which she may wish to consider. Credit reference 
agencies are able to post notices of correction. This is a notice which allows  a consumer to 
explain an entry on a credit file and the circumstances in which  it arose. Mrs C has the 
opportunity of submitting such a notice so prospective lenders can judge the whole context 
in which  the default arose.  
Im aware that Mrs C has raised concerns about  Argos handling of a subject access 
request. I understand shes referred this matter to the Information Commissioners Office. As 
theyre the relevant body set up to deal with information right issues  Ive not considered this 
as part of my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6255484