K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy. 
background
Mrs and Mr S bought a regular premium MPPI policy in 2000 to protect their joint mortgage 
repayments against accident, sickness or unemployment. They bought  the policy on the 
phone with the Halifax. Only Mr S was covered under the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, their complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs and Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why:
Mrs and Mr S said they were told they had to have MPPI  to get the mortgage.  But, Ive seen 
Mrs and Mr Ss mortgage application.  The section about MPPI was crossed  through.  So, I 
think it likely  they knew they didnt have to take MPPI to get the mortgage. Ive also seen a 
separate MPPI  application  from around  a month later. Its noted at the bottom  of this, that 
this was a tele sale. Mr S hasnt signed the application. I cant know what was said on the 
phone. Theres  no call recording now available.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available. As the telephone  note 
was made  at the time,  I think it likely that it can be relied on to show  what  was discussed and 
agreed on. 
Ive looked at what Mrs and Mr S have  said about  how the policy  was sold.  But based on the 
limited information I have, and what we know generally about how Halifax  was selling these  
policies around  this time, I dont have enough to fairly conclude that Mrs and Mr S werent 
aware of the optional  nature of MPPI  and werent  given a fair choice about taking it out. I 
think it just as likely that they were  told it was optional  and chose to take it out to protect their 
mortgage repayments. So, I cant fairly  uphold  Mrs and Mr Ss complaint  on this ground.
I think Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mrs and Mr S during the phone call. So it had to 
make sure the policy was suitable for their needs.  It also had to give them  enough 
information in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so that they could make an informed 
choice about whether  to buy it.
Even though  only Mr S was covered by the policy, Ive taken into account  Mrs Ss 
circumstances too when deciding this complaint. I cant see that the policy  looked  unsuitable  
for them. I say this because:
Ref: DRN69218412oMr S was eligible  to take out the policy.
oI cant see that it was inappropriate for the policy to be taken out in Mr Ss name 
only given their joint circumstances.
oMr S said he wouldnt  have got any sick pay through work. Mrs S said she 
wouldnt have got any sick pay either  if she wasnt able to work. They  said they 
didnt have any savings. So, I think the policy wouldve been of use to them 
during what might  be a difficult time financially if Mr S wasnt  working. It wouldve 
provided them with valuable assurance that their home was protected  if Mr S was 
out of work. The policy  wouldve  covered them for up to 24 months  per successful 
claim.
oI cant see that Mr S was affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover. So, I dont think having better information  about these things wouldve 
changed their decision to buy MPPI as he couldve benefitted from everything the 
policy offered.
I cant be sure that Mrs and Mr S were  given all the information about the costs of the policy 
they shouldve  been. They paid £27.97 per month for £461.67  per month of cover.  I think  
they wouldve  understood they had to pay something  for MPPI and I cant  see that Mrs and 
Mr S wouldve  done  anything different and decided against having the policy because the 
policy seemed suitable,  competitively priced  and affordable. They couldve cancelled it at 
any time without losing out financially.
Even taking  into account any problems with the sale, I think  it unlikely Mrs and Mr S 
wouldve made a different  decision and not bought the policy. So, it follows that I dont  think 
they have lost out because of anything Halifax did wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6921841