K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Homeserve Membership Limited failed to inform him of a change to his 
home emergency cover. Hes also unhappy with the renewal premium and the policy  is 
advertised to new customers at a cheaper  price. 
background
Mr W took out home emergency  cover with Homeserve in 2000. In November 2017, he 
received his renewal  information which said his premium for the following years  cover would 
be £252.72. He wasnt happy with the increase in price, so he called Homeserve to discuss 
it. 
During the call, Homeserve told Mr W his existing policy  was no longer available  and that 
should he choose to renew, hed be migrated to a new policy  which offered enhanced cover. 
Mr W complained  that he hadnt  been  given enough  notice of the changes  to his policy,  and 
he thought it was unfair for Homeserve to change it without telling him. He asked to be sent 
information which showed the different types  of policies available and associated  cover,  so 
that he could decide whether he wanted  the policy or not.  
With regards to the premium price,  Homeserve said it could provide Mr W annual  cover for 
£146.36 (over  £100 less than initially offered). But Mr W didnt think this was a fair price 
because Homeserve offered the same policy to new customers at £12 for 12 months, which 
would increase to £96 for the second  year. He said Homeserve should offer the second-year  
premium of £96 to him. Mr W suggested Homeserve deduct a further  £50 from the cost of 
the premium as it has admitted to making a mistake by not telling him about the change in 
policy.
Mr W has also raised concerns about  how Homeserve handled his complaint. He said it 
didnt escalate  his complaint at the earliest  opportunity.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said:
Homeserve hadnt been clear enough  about the policy migrating at renewal but as 
the new policy provided more cover, he didnt think Mr W had been negatively  
impacted. 
Homeserve has apologised for its error and offered the policy at a reduced price  
which was lower  than the renewal  quote Mr W had been offered the previous year. 
Hed seen information from Homeserve which showed Mr Ws policy  premium  had 
been calculated  in line with other existing customers whose policy  had migrated over. 
So, he didnt think Mr W had been treated unfairly  or differently. 
He didnt think Homeserve had acted unreasonably by saying Mr W wasnt eligible 
for the new customer discount as he wasnt one.
Mr W didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
Ref: DRN65255232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W feels its unfair that Homeserve upgraded his policy without his consent and without 
notice. A policy renewal is a new contract of insurance  its not a continuation of the existing 
one. So, the terms  of cover and price may change over time. I agree it would have been 
better in this case to let Mr W know that his old policy no longer existed and if he didnt 
renew with the enhanced cover hed no longer  be insured  through  Homeserve.
Im satisfied renewal documentation was sent to Mr W at his correct  address around 25 days  
before renewal. The covering letter points  out that Mr W had been with Homeserve for a 
number of years and might get a cheaper price if he shops around.  If Mr W didnt  get this, its 
unfortunate but I wouldnt hold Homeserve responsible for the delivery. The documents  were 
clear there was no obligation  for Mr W to accept renewal and hes entitled to look for a policy 
elsewhere. 
Its not in dispute  that Homeserve didnt make  it clear  enough  in Mr Ws renewal information 
that his policy had changed.  And he didnt find out until a few days  later when he called to 
discuss the increase  in premium. Homeserve acknowledges the information it provided 
wasnt sufficiently clear  and has apologised for what went  wrong. 
What I need to decide is whether Homeserve  has done enough to put things right.  
Mr W wanted Homeserve to provide details of the cover under the new policy  along with the 
differences between  this and his old one. I can see that Homeserve explained  in its 
complaint response  that the new policy provides cover for leaks  to external water  supply 
pipes, from the internal  stop valve in the home  through  to the external stop tap. This is 
something the old policy didnt provide for and was an additional level of cover.  But I agree 
Homeserve should  have highlighted the fact that it was a new  level of cover and the old 
policy was no longer available. This would have clearly enabled Mr W to see whether he 
wanted the new cover at the price charged  or gone elsewhere.
Mr Ws main concern  about the new policy is the increased cost. In 2016  he obtained a 
reduction from £195 to £80. The new policy was initially offered at £252.72  but Homeserve 
agreed to reduce this to £146.36. And Homeserve has given Mr W the option to take out a 
different policy, which offers the same  cover as the new one but at a reduced premium  of 
approximately £45. The difference  between  the two policies is that any claim made is subject 
to a £50 policy excess. Homeserve referred  Mr W to its website for the full details of these  
policies. 
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Homeserve has done  enough  to put things  right. I 
say this because  it has now provided  the details of the new policy, and how it differs  from the 
old one. Its offered a discount to the cost of renewal of £106.36. And it has also offered an 
alternative policy with comparable cover. Im not persuaded Homeserve should be required 
to do anything more  in the circumstances.  Following the complaint, Mr W had all the 
information to make an informed decision on whether he wanted to renew with Homeserve 
or take his business elsewhere. 
Looking at the premium,  Mr W says hes seen information to show  that the new policy is 
being offered  to new customers  at £12 for 12 months, increasing  to £96 for the second year. 
Ref: DRN65255233He says Homeserves offer of £146.36  as its best price is therefore incorrect.  Homeserve  
say Mr W isnt a new customer  nor is he in his second years  renewal  having  been a 
customer since 2000. And as such, he doesnt meet the criteria for the particular offer. 
We are not the industry regulator and we dont regulate insurance pricing or tell a business 
how much  it can charge for its policies. A business must treat its customers  fairly and in 
principle where its doing this, businesses will be entitled to charge what they feel they need 
to in order to cover  a risk and ultimately  remain  commercially profitable.
Ive reviewed the information from Homeserve which shows Mr Ws policy was initially 
calculated in line with other existing customers whose policies were migrating to the new 
policy. He wasnt happy with the price  and Homeserve decided it would offer a significant 
discount. Thats a matter of commercial discretion  for Homeserve  to do. Whilst I cant share 
all the pricing details with Mr W due to their commercially sensitive nature, I am satisfied he 
has been treated  fairly.  
Businesses regularly  offer introductory discounts to new customers. We dont consider this 
to be unfair  as a business is entitled to offer rates to increase its sales.  I agree Mr W isnt 
eligible for this given hes not a new customer.  And I havent seen anything  to persuade me 
that Homeserve  should offer Mr W this price or any further discount as a result of this 
complaint. 
Mr W also raised concerns that Homeserve  didnt escalate his concerns at the earliest 
opportunity. Homeserves final response (dated  14 December 2017) notes the complaint  
was raised on 14 November 2017.  It then received a letter  from Mr W which it recorded on 
the complaint  on 21 November  2017. Homeserve clarified matters in a further  complaint  
response (dated 5 January 208).  Im satisfied Homeserve provided its written  final response 
within the eight-week time frame its allowed under the complaint handling rules. Even if 
there were minor clarity issues with the information  Homeserve gave about the extent of the 
policy, its price  and complaint process,  I note apologies within correspondence. And as 
such, I wouldnt ask Homeserve to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6525523