K821x#15complaint
Mr E took his pension  benefits from his occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) in 2007. This 
used up most of the lifetime allowance. He says that he should  have been advised by 
Ashcourt Rowan Financial  Planning  Limited to take his benefits  in a different  format so that 
he could have taken  a higher tax-free  lump  sum.
background
Mr E had substantial benefits  in his OPS and he also had benefits  in personal pension  plans.  
He applied for enhanced  protection  with help from his adviser at Ashcourt Rowan. Mr E 
applied to take his OPS  benefits in 2007. This was after a conversation  with the adviser at 
Ashcourt Rowan. The benefits were taken in the form of a pension income and tax-free  cash 
sum.
Ashcourt Rowan advised Mr E a number of times over the next few years.  Part of the advice 
was about the benefits  available from his personal  pensions. On a number of occasions 
between 2008  and 2012 advice was given on the basis  that Mr E would be able to take 25% 
of his personal pensions as tax-free  cash sums.
Mr E complained to Ashcourt Rowan in 2017. One of my colleagues issued a decision 
explaining that we were  not able to consider  a complaint about advice on how benefits 
should be taken  from an OPS. However, we could look at any advice given by Ashcourt 
Rowan about  taking benefits  from personal  pensions.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint about the advice given  relating  to taking 
benefits from personal pensions. He explained that after the benefits were  taken from the 
OPS there was very little of the lifetime allowance left. Mr E was therefore  prevented  from 
taking tax-free  cash  from all but a small proportion of the personal pensions.  But, the loss of 
the tax-free cash for the personal pensions was caused by the way benefits were taken from 
the OPS, which  we could not consider.
The adjudicator did think that the adviser  had raised Mr Es expectations by advising that 
25% tax-free cash was available from the personal  pensions. This was on a number  of 
occasions from 2008. This information was incorrect because Mr E had used over 99% of 
his lifetime allowance.  The adjudicator  thought that this had caused some  inconvenience  to 
Mr E and suggested that Ashcourt Rowan should  pay Mr E £500 to compensate for the 
upset caused.
Mr E did not agree  with the adjudicator.  He thought  the suggestion  that Ashcourt Rowan 
should pay £500 for the upset caused was no more than a token gesture.  This did not deal 
with the financial  loss that had been  caused.  Mr E also said that he had bought  a property 
using a mortgage that he intended to repay from the tax-free cash sum available  from the 
personal pensions.
The adjudicator replied and explained  that he was only considering  the impact  of the 
advisers error in continuing to tell Mr E that he could take 25% of the personal  pension 
funds as tax-free cash. As Mr E was not entitled to take 25% tax-free cash,  there was no 
loss as a result of the adviser  giving incorrect information. Although Mr E said that he 
intended to use the tax-free cash to repay a mortgage, the adjudicator did not think Mr E was 
relying on the tax-free cash as he had other assets.  But he did think a payment of £500  for 
the inconvenience caused was appropriate.
Ref: DRN64736722Mr E still did not agree  and provided  calculations  to demonstrate that he had suffered a 
financial loss. He thought that one point that had been overlooked  was the interaction 
between choices made when he took his OPS benefits and the personal pension plans.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for the same  reasons.
Mr E accepts that this Service  is not able to look at cases  about occupational pension  
schemes. But he says it is the interaction between his OPS and personal pension  benefits 
that is the cause  of his loss. I agree that when taking pension benefits  it is the total benefits 
that must  be taken into account when considering the lifetime  allowance. The issue  for me to 
consider is whether Ashcourt Rowan was providing  advice about  the personal  pensions 
when Mr E took his OPS  benefits.
The evidence I have  seen  does not include any documentation from the time Mr E took his 
OPS benefits. He said that the allocation of benefits from the OPS was his choice. It was 
discussed with his financial adviser, but he was not made aware it may be in his interests to 
draw the maximum tax-free cash from his personal pensions first. 
As my colleague explained in his decision about  our jurisdiction, we cannot consider  
complaints about  advice  to draw benefits from an OPS. I accept that Mr E says that he ought 
to have been informed about  taking benefits from his personal pensions,  but I cannot say 
that Ashcourt Rowan was providing advice about  the personal pensions  at that time.
The loss that is being claimed  arises because the OPS benefits  were taken first. But, as I 
cannot say that Ashcourt  Rowan was providing advice about the personal pensions and we 
cannot consider  a complaint about taking the OPS benefits, it follows that I cannot make an 
award for any loss flowing  from that decision.  
Ashcourt Rowan did continue to provide advice to Mr E after he took his OPS  benefits on the 
basis that Mr E was entitled  to 25% tax-free  cash. That information was incorrect. Mr Es 
financial planning was affected by this. However, I agree with the adjudicator that Mr E did 
have other  assets  to repay the mortgage.  He was not entitled to the 25% tax-free cash  after 
benefits were taken from the OPS. I am not able to say that Mr Es financial plans were 
altered and caused him loss because  of the incorrect information given by Ashcourt Rowan.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the information  and advice provided  over a number of years  
must have  caused  Mr E some distress and inconvenience when it was discovered. I think a 
payment of £500  is appropriate in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN64736723my final decision
I uphold the complaint, in part. Ashcourt Rowan Financial Planning  Limited must pay Mr E 
£500 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by their errors for the reasons set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6473672