K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that IPH Insurance Services (UK) Ltd mis-sold him a property owners 
insurance policy and as a result  a claim under that policy  wasnt  settled in full by his insurer.
background
Mr L owns a restaurant  which  he rented  out. He used IPH as his insurance broker and it 
arranged insurance  of the restaurant in 2014.  The insurance was subsequently renewed by 
Mr L with the same  insurer on an annual basis in 2015, 2016 and 2017. 
In April 2017 there was a fire at the restaurant. Mr L made a claim to his insurer.  The insurer  
accepted liability  for the loss and damage  but claimed that the restaurant  hadnt been 
insured for its full rebuild cost which it calculated was £719,400. Mr L had insured the 
building for £400,000. That meant under the terms of the policy  the insurer was only 
responsible for 55.60% of the cost of the repairs (as that reflected the proportion of the 
rebuild cost Mr L had paid for by under-insuring).  The cost of repairs  was calculated  as 
£216,552.74, so the insurer said it would pay £120,403.32.
Mr L complained to IPH that it had never advised  him to get the property valued for 
insurance purposes or advised him regarding the difference between the purchase price 
and the rebuilding cost. He thought it was IPHs fault that his claim hadnt been paid in full. 
He wanted IPH to pay the difference between what the insurer had paid out in respect of 
the claim and the full extent of his loss, including loss of rental income.  
IPH said it had told Mr L when he first took out the policy that the property should  be 
insured for the full re-instatement value  and it had asked him on each renewal to check that 
he had the right cover.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. He didnt think 
IPH had done  anything  wrong. As Mr L didnt agree, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to consider is whether IPH did enough to make sure that the policy  was 
suitable for Mr Ls needs. It had a duty to do that because it advised Mr L regarding his 
insurance policy and recommended  the policy to him. 
One of the most important considerations in making sure a policy  is suitable is the sum 
insured, particularly if, as in this case, the policy allows the claim settlement to be reduced 
for under- insurance.  That doesnt mean  IPH had to calculate  the rebuild cost itself or decide 
the sum insured. Brokers  arent usually qualified to provide property valuations. But, as IPH 
recommended the policy, I think it had to tell Mr L:
that the sum insured  had to represent  the full rebuild cost of the property;
that it was his responsibility to decide the sum insured; and
that if he didnt insure for the full rebuild cost, any claim settlement from the insurer might 
be reduced. 
Ref: DRN60458752I can see when IPH carried out a review of Mr Ls insurance needs in April 2015 he told it 
the buildings sum insured  was £400,000. The proposal form said the buildings sum insured 
must represent  the full re-instatement value of the property at the inception date for the 
insurance. Please include an allowance  for fixture and fittings for which  you are responsible, 
outbuildings, walls and fences, potential debris  removal costs, and professional cost 
associated with re-instatement  of the building. Average applies to all sums insured.
In March 2017 IPH wrote to Mr L inviting him to renew the policy. The renewal letter  said he 
should let it know  if he needed to change  the sum insured. It also said if any details were 
incorrect, any claim might not be paid in full.
A few weeks  later IPH rang Mr L to see whether hed like to renew  the policy. IPH has shown 
us as part of its processes  at that time it would have asked Mr L to check that the buildings 
cover was adequate  and explained that the rebuild cost is different from the market value of 
the property. If Mr L was unsure of the rebuild cost, its standard  practice would have been  to 
refer him to a chartered surveyor. It would also have told him that if he were  under-insured, 
any claim might not be paid in full. Ive no reason to believe that it wouldnt have followed its 
standard processes on the renewal  of Mr Ls policy. 
Overall I think  IPH did enough  to make Mr L aware  that the rebuild cost was different from 
the market value, that it was his responsibility  to decide the sum insured and that if he were  
under-insured any claim might not be paid in full. I dont  think IPH ought  to have suggested 
to Mr L that he get a professional valuation  as he didnt  query the sum insured. So I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6045875