K822xcomplaint
The late Mr Ds representative  is unhappy  with the premiums he paid during the time he had 
a home insurance policy  from Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA). Shes also 
unhappy with the service  provided by RSA when she submitted this complaint. 
background
The late Mr D took out a home insurance  policy  to cover his property in 2007.  The 
information weve received shows that he paid approximately £500 for the policy.  
Weve been  told that the late Mr D trusted RSA to provide him with a competitive  quote at 
the start and then each year the policy renewed after. The late Mr Ds representative says 
this didnt happen. Shes shocked to see that in 2017 the late Mr D was charged £734.16 
when she was able to get him a suitable policy for approximately £100, with RSA. She 
believes that what the late Mr D was paying  was excessive and that RSA took advantage of 
a vulnerable customer. Shes also unhappy  with the way RSA dealt  with the complaint. 
There were delays and Mr D passed  away before RSA even responded. 
When RSA responded  to the complaint it felt it hadnt done anything wrong. It said the 
premiums were correct and that it had pointed out in renewal documentation  that it had other 
policies available and that customers could call up to get a quote  for those.  RSA did 
acknowledge that an error  had been  made when the late Mr Ds representative submitted 
the complaint,  and it offered £75 to compensate for this error. 
Before this complaint  came to me for decision,  RSA made a goodwill  offer of £900 to the late 
Mr Ds estate to settle the complaint. Our investigator reviewed that offer and he thought the 
offer was fair.
Mr Ds representative doesnt agree with the amount being refunded  and has requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should  have cost. I would be, in 
effect determining or telling a business  how it should operate   and thats  not my role. But I 
can look at whether  RSA has treated the late Mr D fairly throughout the period he held his 
insurance policy. And Id need  to consider whether what  RSA has offered is sufficient to put 
right any unfairness
The late Mr Ds representative originally questioned  why the price she was quoted  online 
was so much cheaper than at renewal, especially from the same  business. She also says 
that she was told that this was an old legacy policy not sold anymore and she feels  that the 
late Mr D must be an outlier on a report, that he was forgotten  about and that this has to be a 
result of negligent management analysis and reporting routines. She cannot understand how 
the policy premium has increased  given that nothing has changed over the years.  
We know that the late Mr D had a policy from 2007, and it cost approximately £500 for the 
year. But RSA have only been able to provide the actual premium  history from 2012,  and we 
Ref: DRN64420592know the late Mr D paid £588.72  at this renewal.  I understand there was likely  to have been 
an introductory discount on the price  the late Mr D paid in 2007. This isnt uncommon  and 
policies may well initially be priced  lower to attract  new customers. I dont think its unfair for 
an insurer to seek to recoup that cost over the subsequent years.
We know the late Mr D never engaged  with RSA about the renewal  quotes  he was given 
until his representative stepped  in in 2017 when  the premium  had risen to £734.66. RSA 
have provided some diagrams  to show the increases. This information  is commercially  
sensitive and cant be shared.  But I can see that the base price has only ever risen due to 
inflation, and that this policy  has had the same  margin from the very beginning. So even 
though the price increased, the increases match the average inflation rates for both buildings 
and contents since 2012.
If I thought  RSA should have realised  the late Mr D wasnt  the type of person who shopped 
around for cheaper insurance regularly , and I thought it increased  the price just because the 
late Mr D didnt engage at renewal,  that wouldnt be fair. But I dont think  thats  whats  
happened here. And Im satisfied that RSA hasnt done anything wrong. 
The late Mr Ds representative  also says he was left on an old legacy policy, likely forgotten 
about and that this may not have been  the best or most suitable policy for him. 
But I dont think this was the case. It was suitable at the time of sale and nothing changed. 
And just because  he was on an older legacy policy this doesnt mean  something  went  
wrong. Most insurers  run several different policies  at any one time,  each with differing criteria  
and price ranges. And RSA wrote  to the late Mr D on an annual basis setting out the cost of 
the policy and a number  to contact if he wanted  to discuss. I can see that the renewal letter  
usually had a line that said  please note we have  a range of products to meet our customers  
changing needs that could save you money 
So, from the documents  Ive seen Im satisfied that RSA provided enough information for the 
late Mr D to decide if he wanted to remain on cover and he was given detail if he wished  to 
discuss it further. So, I cant  agree that RSA did anything wrong here.
Ref: DRN64420593But Mr Ds representative is still concerned about the cost of cover compared to the quotes  
she received in 2017. And I can see why, as there is a substantial difference.  But just 
because a policy premium is higher compared to what may be available elsewhere  in the 
market or even  with the same  insurer doesnt, in my view, mean that something has gone  
wrong. The insurance  market is very competitive. And differing products mean  varied views  
on risk and the price that they need  to charge to cover that. New policies also generally 
include new customer discounts,  and these  invariably need to be recouped over a period of 
time to make the policy  commercially  viable. So, the new quotes the late Mr Ds 
representative obtained, while cheaper  at the outset, are also likely to increase in price. 
So, for those reasons,  I dont think it would be fair to compare the difference in cost between
the policy the late Mr D had and the new quotes he received. While the late Mr Ds 
representative decided to shop around in 2017  and obtained a cheaper quote  this doesnt 
automatically mean that RSA had treated the late Mr D unfairly during the years he had the 
policy.
But RSA have told us that it acknowledges that the late Mr D was a loyal customer.  Its said 
that at 97 years of age in 2017 it would be difficult to expect the late Mr D to shop around. 
So, its made  a goodwill offer of £900 to the estate of the late Mr D to make up for any losses 
he may have sustained by not engaging  in the final few years  he had the policy.  
In light of what Ive said above, and having  considered RSAs  offer,  I think its fair. It makes 
sure the late Mr D hadnt lost out just because he didnt engage at each renewal. 
I also note that RSA offered £75 to the late Mr Ds representative  for not dealing with this 
complaint when it was first submitted. My understanding  from the file is that this 
compensation wasnt accepted. As this was a payment that was made to the representative, 
I cant comment on it here. So, I would ask both parties to deal with this separately. 
Further to this the late Mr Ds representative has asked that any award made is paid directly  
to her. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  we will be asking the 
representative of the executors of Mr Ds estate to accept or reject this decision only. We 
wont be directing  RSA to make that payment to anyone but the correct  legal  entity.
my final decision
For the reasons  given above, I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs offer of goodwill of 
£900 to the late Mr Ds estate is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the executors of 
the late Mr Ds estate  to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6442059