K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Woolwich-branded mortgage that Mrs T holds with 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. It covers a variety of issues, ranging from a lending decision  on a 
further advance  application to Barclays administration  of the mortgage  throughout its life; 
the latter including the banks interaction  with the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP).
background
By way of a jurisdiction  decision dated  11 March 2019, I explained  why our consideration of 
Mrs Ts complaint would be confined to just one issue; specifically, the mistakes that 
Barclays made whilst dealing with the DWP  between June 2017 and February 2018. This led 
to the DWP  wrongly  calculating the amount of financial assistance  Mrs T should receive, and 
it paid her more than she was due.
My jurisdiction decision concluded that the remaining elements of Mrs Ts complaint had 
either:
been looked at before and decided by a fellow ombudsman;
been brought to us outside  the time limits allowed in our rules;  or
had arisen since  this complaint started  and should be the subject of a new, separate,  
complaint.
Barclays had admitted getting  things wrong  with the DWP, and had now put things right. It 
had apologised  and paid Mrs T £320  in compensation.  This was intended to cover  the costs  
of her phone calls and reflect  the time, trouble and upset to which  shed been  put.
Our adjudicator thought that was a reasonable settlement in the circumstances, and didnt 
recommend Barclays do anything further  to put things right. Mrs T doesnt agree,  and so 
after I issued my jurisdiction decision,  I allowed the parties a further two weeks in which to 
make any additional  comments that theyd like taken into account  when  the merits of the 
complaint were decided.  
That time has now passed, and the case is back with me. My remit is to review  the evidence  
from both sides and decide if Barclays final response of 14 March 2018 provides an 
adequate response to the mistakes it made when dealing with the DWP.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  Mrs Ts final submission 
received by email  on 24 March 2019  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have some disappointing  news  for Mrs T, 
in that I agree with the adjudicator that Barclays has dealt  fairly and reasonably  with the one 
element of the complaint  Im able to decide.  Mrs Ts comments  are eloquent and forceful  in 
highlighting what she clearly sees as Barclays administrative  and regulatory failings. But for 
the most  part, they focus on matters Ive already  explained we cant consider. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt a regulator; my role isnt to change  how banks 
behave or punish  them  with fines when  they get things  wrong.  All I can do is consider  the 
specifics of the problem with the DWP and decide  if Barclays has done enough to put it right.  
I believe it has, and for that reason, I dont find that Barclays need  do anything further.
Ref: DRN67106292my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, or make any order  or award  against  
Barclays Bank UK Plc. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6710629