K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that hes been  charged for a mobile phone  insurance policy  provided  by 
Policy Administration Services Ltd (PAS)  since 2004.
Mr M is represented  in bringing this matter by his wife, Mrs M.
background
Mr and Mrs M queried charge on Mr Ms bank statements that they didnt recognise last 
year. They traced the payment back to PAS, who advised them  it was for a mobile phone 
insurance policy taken  out by Mr M in 2004. As Mr M didnt recall  taking the policy out, Mrs 
M asked for a copy of the contract and direct debit  mandates. And when PAS couldnt 
provide this, she raised a complaint.
PAS didnt uphold  the complaint. They said their records showed that the policy was 
purchased in store in July 2004, when the first month of cover was paid for upfront. The 
policy had operated on a rolling  contract  since then,  in line with the terms and conditions. 
And they said theyd  corresponded with Mr M at various points over the years.  Monthly 
premiums of £7.99 had been paid each month by direct debit but they couldnt provide 
copies of the mandates now, given the amount of time that had passed.
Mrs M then referred the matter to us. She said there  was no contract  to show what  was 
discussed or agreed to at the outset, and nothing to evidence the rolling nature of the 
contract. Theyd never received anything from PAS and had assumed the premiums to be 
some sort of bank administration fee. Mr M had paid out over £1,400 as a result  so unless 
PAS could evidence  its position, she wanted them to refund him.
PAS didnt think we could  consider Mr Ms complaint because it had been referred outside of 
the time limits contained in our rules. These  require  complaints to be raised within  six years  
of the event being complained about or  if later  within three years of the complainant 
becoming aware they had cause for complaint.
I issued a decision in November 2019 as to our jurisdiction to consider this matter. In 
summary, I didnt think we could look into any concerns  about  the sale or setting up of the 
policy as that hadnt  been referred to us in time. But I said that we could investigate  how 
premiums had continued to be charged from 20 May 2013 onwards. So our investigator 
looked into these  matters, but he didnt  think PAS had done anything  wrong.  In summary, he 
said that premiums had been collected in line with the terms and conditions. And he noted 
that PAS had written to Mr M about  the policy annually. While the letters had been 
addressed to Mr Ms previous address, he couldnt  see that it had been  told of a new 
correspondence address. 
Mrs M didnt  accept our investigators view.  In short, she maintained  that with no contract  or 
direct debit instruction,  there was no basis on which to be bound  by the associated terms and 
conditions. She also reiterated that theyd not received any correspondence from PAS over 
the years, despite receiving other post under a forwarding instruction following their move.  
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN65155882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for much  the same reasons. Ill explain why.
PAS has shown that a mobile phone  insurance  policy was set up for Mr M in 2004. I cant  
look at whether there were any errors with how that was done  but it is relevant to my 
consideration of whether premiums were  fairly  collected from 2013 onwards. 
The policy document set out that it was automatically renewable each  month, that payments 
would be taken by direct debit and that that payments would continue  to be collected  until 
Mr M cancelled the policy. PAS has also shown us a copy of a letter  sent to Mr M in July 
2004 with the Insurance  Certificate, confirming that the direct debit had been set up and that 
payments would be collected monthly.  So Im satisfied that PAS had the contractual  right to 
take payments  unless  and until the policy was cancelled. And I think Mr M was given 
appropriate information to understand that.
I cant see that Mr M ever cancelled  or attempted to cancel  the policy prior to the 
complaint. And so it follows  that there is no basis on which I can reasonably  require PAS to 
refund the premiums  it has collected from him over the years.
Mrs M queries how these conditions can be relied on in the absence of other point of sale 
documentation, such as a signed contract  or direct debit instruction. But PAS has explained  
that this is likely due to the age of the policy.  I find that reasonable  the documents  in 
question were completed some 16 years  ago, and theres no requirement on PAS to have 
retained them since then.  So the absence of certain documentation isnt enough  to lead me 
to think there  was no basis upon which  PAS could  legitimately collect premiums for the 
policy, particularly bearing in mind the other  contemporaneous  records that would most likely 
have required some input  from Mr M to administer. 
PAS has also been able to demonstrate that it has written to Mr M about the policy over the 
years. Its internal records  show  that wrote  to him at least once a year over the period in 
question (typically with updates to its terms and conditions). Its regrettable  if Mr M didnt 
receive these  I understand they wouldve gone to his old address. I dont have enough 
information about Mr Ms forwarding arrangements to comment on why the letters werent  
redirected. But ultimately it wouldve been up to Mr M to update his details  with PAS,  and I 
cant see that he did that. The records show that they had the old address recorded correctly 
and that the letters were  dispatched annually. So theres not much  more I could reasonably 
expect PAS to have  done. 
While I appreciate Mrs Ms points around  why concerns werent  raised sooner, I have also 
borne in mind  that the policy premiums  wouldve shown on Mr Ms bank statements each 
month for a number  of years. So there  was significant time and opportunity to query this 
much sooner  if it wasnt something that he recalled  agreeing to.
Taking all of this into account,  I see no basis upon which I could fairly require PAS to refund 
the premiums its collected  from Mr M since 2013.  So I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN65155883my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6515588