K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold a mortgage to them. Theyd  like 
their mortgage term to expire  on their retirement, without payments increasing. They also 
ask that Bank of Scotland  pays compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a repayment mortgage with Bank of Scotland in May 2003.  The 
mortgage was recommended  by a broker. The mortgage loan was about £105,000. Bank of 
Scotland also offered a flexible options  account, which allowed Mr and Mrs L to take out 
additional borrowing  up to a limit of about  £195,000. The borrowing limit on the flexible 
options account increased several  times: by 2007  it was about £250,000. The mortgage term 
expires in 2023.
Mr and Mrs L raised a number of concerns:
the mortgage isnt suitable for them.
the borrowing in 2003 and the additional  borrowing  in 2007 wasnt affordable.
their income was self certified. They say the income on the applications was completed 
by someone else and wasnt correct. No-one asked for evidence of their income.
there were no checks on their use of the flexible options account. They were able to 
borrow an additional £167,000 in the first year. 
they didnt understand how the flexible  options  account worked.  They used the account 
to make  mortgage payments. Until recently,  statements  didnt show  the mortgage and 
flexible options  account separately and they didnt  know what theyd borrowed.
the mortgage expires  a few years  after their state retirement  age.
Bank of Scotland sent letters  offering  payment holidays, reduced monthly payments and 
encouraging them  to borrow more from the flexible options account.
after they lost their business  in 2016,  Bank of Scotland allowed them  to make reduced 
payments: it didnt tell them this would increase their debt.  Errors by Bank of Scotland 
made it appear they were in arrears.  It then sent threatening  letters.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said 
any concerns about the sale of the mortgage should be raised  with the broker.
Bank of Scotland was entitled to rely on the information provided to it by the broker  and 
Mr and Mrs L. It didnt have  any reason to think the mortgage loan and credit limit on the 
flexible options  account werent  affordable. Mr and Mrs L were  unable to maintain 
payments after the circumstances changed  in 2015: this didnt mean the loan was 
unaffordable when  it was taken out.
Bank of Scotland sent information to Mr and Mrs L about how the flexible options 
account worked and annual  statements showing the balance.
Mr and Mrs L didnt  tell Bank  of Scotland they had financial problems until 2015. It was fair 
for Bank of Scotland to offer forbearance when Mr and Mrs L were in financial  difficulties.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. They said the mortgage  was unaffordable from the start and they 
were encouraged to borrow  more.  Mr and Mrs L said they used the flexible options account  
to pay the mortgage.
Ref: DRN60460722Mr and Mrs L say they had to close their business in mid 2015 after losing an important 
customer. They said they made  reduced  payments and after this Bank of Scotland made 
errors with their payments which made it appear  they were in arrears. They say it sent 
threatening letters and withdrew use of the flexible options account. Mr and Mrs L say they 
cant repay the mortgage without selling their home.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs L took out a 20 year tracker mortgage in 2003. They also entered  into a flexible 
options agreement  in 2003.  This allowed them to borrow up to the credit limit (originally  
£195,000). The debt was secured on their house.
A broker recommended the mortgage.  The broker was independent  from Bank of Scotland. 
The mortgage offer letter  to Mr and Mrs L says the broker  didnt act as Bank of Scotlands 
agent. I appreciate  Mr and Mr L feel differently, but Bank of Scotland isnt responsible  for the 
advice given by the broker.
The broker  was responsible for ensuring  the mortgage was suitable. This complaint is about  
Bank of Scotland. So I cant look into Mr and Mrs Ls concerns about the suitability of the 
mortgage here.
the offer of the mortgage and flexible options  account in 2003
Regulations related to mortgage lending have changed considerably  since Mr and Mrs L 
took out their mortgage. But I have to take account of regulation and good industry practice  
at that time when  reaching my decision.
Bank of Scotland provided  documents from that time, including the mortgage  application,  the 
mortgage offer, credit  agreement for the flexible options account and correspondence. Mr 
and Mrs L applied for total borrowing  of £300,000,  including  the mortgage loan of £105,000.  
The loan proceeds were to be used to re-finance  an existing mortgage (of about  £88,000),  to 
repay existing loans (including a second  charge loan of £25,000)  and home improvements.
Mr and Mrs L say they were encouraged in 2003  to predict their yearly income as £180,000 
when in fact their business made  a loss. Mr and Mrs Ls income was self certified,  as 
permitted by regulations  at that time. Mr and Mrs L signed a declaration to self-certify  their 
income. Mr and Mrs L now say their stated income wasnt correct. But Bank of Scotland  
didnt know this at the time. It didnt have to ask for evidence to support  what  it had been told.
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland shouldnt have  offered a mortgage with a term expiring after 
they reached state pensions age. As Mr and Mrs L were advised by a broker,  Bank  of Scotland 
was entitled to assume the broker had considered whether the term was suitable. I dont think  
the fact that the mortgage term went past state retirement  age would have prompted concerns.  
As Mr and Mrs L had their own businesses, Bank of Scotland wouldnt necessarily have 
expected them to retire at state pension age, or rely on the state pension for their income.  
Ref: DRN60460723I dont think I can fairly  find that Bank of Scotland should have known that the information  it 
was given wasnt correct  or that the mortgage wasnt affordable  when it was taken out in 2003.
the additional lending in 2007
In 2007 Mr and Mrs L applied to increase the limit on the flexible options account by £33,000  
to pay for an extension to the property. They self certified their annual income as £50,000 
each  £100,000 in total. They provided  names of their businesses and their accountants 
contact details. They both signed  the form with the information. Theres nothing  to suggest 
information on the form was later altered.  Bank of Scotland says the application was made 
on a non-advised  basis  and the limited evidence available doesnt suggest  otherwise.
Mrs L wrote  to Bank of Scotland, enclosing the application form and application fee. In the 
letter she said they had planning consent  to extend the house. 
If the income  on the application form wasnt correct I dont think Bank  of Scotland  knew  this. 
It was, at the time,  entitled  to rely on the information provided by Mr and Mrs L. Based on 
this, it assessed the additional borrowing as affordable.
the flexible options agreement
Mr and Mrs L entered into the flexible options  agreement in 2003. This allowed them  to 
borrow up to the credit limit (originally £195,000, which increased to £208,000). This was in 
addition to the mortgage loan. The debt was secured on their house.
Bank of Scotland sent information to Mr and Mrs L about the flexible options  account. It sent 
annual statements which showed  the balance of the mortgage account and flexible options 
account separately. 
The statements  for the mortgage and flexible options account show  that Mr and Mrs L 
maintained their monthly payments.  The balance  of the mortgage account reduced, as would 
be expected with a repayment mortgage.  
However, Mr and Mrs L re-borrowed from the flexible options account, meaning  its balance 
didnt reduce in the same  way. At the beginning of 2008, the flexible options account had a 
balance of £246,000. In February 2015  the balance was £246,000. Ive thought about 
whether this should have prompted Bank of Scotland to act sooner  for instance to cancel 
the available  credit.
Bank of Scotland wasnt made aware  of Mr and Mrs Ls financial difficulties until 2016. I dont 
think I can fairly say that it should  have been  alerted  to their financial  problems  by their use 
of the flexible options account. The terms of the flexible options account  allowed Mr and 
Mrs L to re-borrow funds,  and there  were  limited circumstances in which Bank of Scotland 
could cancel this. Mr and Mrs L usually took out lump sums.  If these  were  then used to fund 
repayments, this wouldnt  have been obvious to Bank of Scotland.
The balance of the flexible options account  wasnt reducing. So at some point I think  it would 
have been fair for Bank of Scotland to contact Mr and Mrs L to discuss  how they would 
repay it before the mortgage term expired in 2023.  This should be early  enough for Mr and 
Mrs L to consider their options. 
Ref: DRN60460724Im not sure though that I can fairly  say that Bank of Scotland  should have contacted  Mr and 
Mrs L about repayment before 2016  which  was seven years before the term expired. 
While Mr and Mrs L say they werent  given the balance  this was on annual statements. And 
Bank of Scotlands notes  show  that Mrs L called and asked for the balance. She says she 
only asked for the amount available to borrow  but I havent seen anything to suggest she 
couldnt have  asked for the outstanding balance if shed wanted  that information.
financial difficulties 
Mr and Mrs L took advantage of the payment holiday option offered by Bank of Scotland  to 
make reduced monthly payments for the second  half of 2015.  Mrs L says they didnt tell 
Bank of Scotland that they had financial difficulties because they were worried it would take 
recovery action. 
Mr and Mrs L asked for a three months  payment holiday  for July to September  2016. From 
September 2016 there were payments  into the account from the DSS (now  the department 
of work and pensions).
Bank of Scotland removed the credit facility in August 2016.  I dont  think  this was wrong.  
Once it was aware  of Mr and Mrs Ls financial difficulties,  it knew further lending was likely to 
be unaffordable. The terms of the account say Bank  of Scotland  can withdraw or reduce the 
credit facility if the borrowers financial circumstances change.
Bank of Scotland made errors when payments re-started after the payment holidays in 2015 
and 2016. It sent letters  to Mr and Mrs L saying  the account was in arrears. It seems  from 
Bank of Scotlands notes  that it didnt set up the 2016 payment holiday correctly and didnt 
recalculate payments  properly when the payment holidays ended. I can understand this was 
upsetting. Bank of Scotland corrected this and said it hadnt recorded the arrears on Mr and 
Mrs Ls credit file. It asked them to contact it if their credit files were  affected, which  I think  is 
a reasonable way of putting  things  right.
extending the term of the mortgage 
Mr and Mrs L wanted to extend the term of their mortgage or switch  to interest only to make 
monthly payments  more  affordable.  They  asked  about this in 2016 and Bank of Scotland 
said this would require  an application and full review  of their income and expenditure. Mr and 
Mrs L say they didnt have enough  income  or a repayment vehicle to support  an application 
so didnt take this forward.  They say theyd  just started a new business so didnt have 
accounts available.
what should happen now?
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances  to require Bank  of Scotland to pay 
compensation for the mortgage being  unsuitable or write off all or part of the debt Mr and 
Mrs L owe.
Mr and Mrs L have a significant debt to repay in the next few years. They  say they wont  be 
able to repay the debt without selling their house, and I can understand they are worried 
about this. 
Ref: DRN60460725So far as I can tell, Mr and Mrs L havent  had a discussion with Bank of Scotland about what  
options might be available. Realistically, Mr and Mrs L will need to provide information  to 
Bank of Scotland so that it can understand their financial  position.  Bank  of Scotland asked 
Mr and Mrs L to contact  its specialist team to see if it can assist. I would encourage Mr and 
Mrs L to do this. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6046072