K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
When speaking to Santander over the phone Mr H took out PPI whilst arranging  a 
remortgage that started in January 2003.  The policy protected his mortgage  repayments in 
the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.  Mr H paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. 
Our adjudicator felt this was a complaint we should uphold. Based on information Mr H told 
us about an injury hed had in 1997 our adjudicator  thought  Mr H probably wasnt  covered for 
absence from work  related to health  problems  following his injury. She felt that if Santander 
had explained  this to Mr H, then it was unlikely  he wouldve wanted the PPI. 
And so she felt Mr H probably wouldnt have  bought  the policy if hed understood  this at the 
time and that hed lost out as hed been  paying  for it.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that as it had seen 
contradictory information, it required documentary evidence to show  when Mr Hs condition 
was diagnosed and how it was managed when it sold him the PPI.
Our adjudicator has made some further enquiries  but wasnt able to obtain the information 
Santander has asked  to see. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
It wouldnt  be reasonable to expect Mr H to remember exactly  what  was discussed  when he 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. This means that what he says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I have to base my decision on what I think is 
most likely given the available information  and the wider circumstances.
Theres no call recording available  now. But, based on what  this service  knows  about the 
way Santander  sold PPI over the phone around  this time, Ive no reason to think  that 
Santander wouldnt have  followed its usual  sales process and explained to Mr H that PPI 
was optional. 
In order to have  the PPI, Mr H was required  to complete a Paymentcare application  form that 
Santander says it wouldve  sent him following the call. Although I havent seen anything 
signed by Mr H to show  how he took out the PPI, Santander  has sent us an example of the 
sort of form I think its likely that Mr H wouldve had to complete to apply for PPI. He 
wouldve had the option to choose  the level of cover and say how much  monthly  benefit  he 
wanted to have. 
Ref: DRN63155572It looks like Mr H mustve decided he wanted accident, sickness  and unemployment cover  
after speaking with the advisor. I say this because Santander wrote to him shortly afterwards 
setting out details of the cover hed chosen showing that Mr H was covered  including what 
it would  cost. 
Mr Hs remortgage  was a major  financial commitment,  and his home  wouldve been  at risk if 
his mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. So, I can see why Mr H mightve felt PPI 
was useful to have at the time. 
On balance, I think its likely that during the call Mr H was persuaded of the benefits that the 
policy offered him. And PPI was added to Mr Hs account when he chose to buy it. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it needed to sell Mr H something that was 
suitable for him. And it needed to sufficiently highlight the significant details of the policy  to 
Mr H. The policy seems to have been  right for Mr H based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr H was eligible for the policy.  The policy wouldve paid out a 
benefit for up to 12 months in the event of a successful accident or sickness claim  and 
repeat claims were possible providing  Mr H with long term cover.  The policy  covered his 
mortgage repayments for longer than Mr H told us he wouldve received sick pay from his 
employer if he couldnt work  and it wouldve been  paid in addition to any work benefits 
Mr H mightve  got. 
Having PPI is more  dependable than relying on other people  to help out in the event of 
money problems. So I think  the policy couldve provided a useful  benefit  at a difficult time  
especially if Mr H mightve had extra costs  as a result of being off work as a result of illness  
or disability.  
The policy couldve  also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr H lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
So I think PPI was suitable for him. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. Mr H told us 
he had an injury in 1997 that had lasting consequences for his health.  So, Ive thought very 
carefully about whether this would have  made  the policy unsuitable for Mr H.
Under this particular policy, no monthly  benefit was payable for any disability arising from 
any condition that the policy holder had at the start date or any condition which the policy 
holder had received treatment or advice for during  the 12 months  before the policy started.
Our adjudicator asked  Mr H to tell us about  how his injury in 1997  impacted on his health in 
2002/2003. Mr H told us that his condition didnt affect his ability  to work  and he wasnt  
receiving treatment or taking medication at the time for it.
Although he first of all told us that during the 12 month period before the start date of the 
policy he did seek advice from a doctor, hes now told us this is incorrect. Hes explained that 
he had his injury  in 1997 and this was when he was registered disabled.  He says when the 
mortgage was taken out he was back at work, and he was still under the care of a specialist 
unit up until a few years ago but this was just for regular check  ups.
Mr H has sent us a letter  which  shows he is currently receiving Disability  Living Allowance.
Ref: DRN63155573Mr H wouldnt  have been covered for a pre-existing medical condition  he had when he took 
out the PPI. But, at the moment, theres nothing to suggest that the injury  Mr H had in 1997 
affected his ability to work when he arranged the PPI. Mr H told us his injury  didnt impact on 
his work  at the time.   
 
Mr H hasnt sent us any information to show when  he was first registered disabled.  But even 
if hes right,  and this was in 1997,  it appears  that Mr H wouldnt have expected  his condition 
to lead to him being off work and making a sickness claim when he took out the PPI. 
And Mr H still had the benefit of other  cover  that the policy offered. So I dont think its likely 
that this made the policy unsuitable for him or that having clearer  information about the 
circumstances when  the policy wouldnt pay out wouldve  made any difference to Mr Hs 
decision to take it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr H during the phone call. 
But the cost of the policy was shown in the welcome  letter sent to him and he couldve 
queried it then if he decided this wasnt something he wanted to pay for. But, from what Ive 
seen, it doesnt  look as if that happened.  Mr H hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the 
monthly premiums. And he wouldve  signed  an instruction form to his bank to cover the cost.  
So it seems  he was happy at the time to pay for PPI. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr H still wouldve  decided to buy the policy even  if hed been better  informed as the 
policy gave him useful protection in his particular situation. 
This means,  as things  stand, Im not currently planning to tell Santander  that it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr H told us that he had no further comments to add and Santander  hasnt sent me anything  
further.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
No further comments  have been received in response to my provisional decision that affect  
my view. So I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint  for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN63155574my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN6315557