K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about Hiscox Underwriting Limited (Hiscox) and the way he was dealt with 
by its staff when asking it to erase his data after trying to take out home  insurance online.   
background
In February 2019  Mr A requested  an online  quote  for Hiscox which  he decided not to 
continue with. Afterwards Mr A contacted Hiscox to erase his data. After  receiving an e-mail 
saying he wouldnt be contacted Mr A was called  about the quote. Unhappy with this Mr A 
called Hiscox and spoke  to various people about  erasing his data. And during these calls he 
says he had the phone put down on him. So he e-mailed asking for his data to be erased  
and for an apology. Hiscox responded saying it was dealing with the request and issued an 
apology. It also told Mr A it was entitled to hold onto some of his data under the relevant 
regulatory obligations for holding consumer data.  
Following further correspondence about the complaint Mr A complained  to this service. He 
feels Hiscox hasnt fully accepted its mistakes and should issue a full apology.  Our 
investigator felt Hiscoxs  response was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  Mr A 
remained unhappy and has asked an ombudsman to make  a final decision on his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. And for roughly the same reasons. I know Mr A feels  strongly 
about this complaint and this will come  as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
I note Mr A has already  reported the issue in relation  to his data erasure to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is the authority which deals  with members of the 
publics data. So I wont comment  in my decision on whether Hiscox is right or wrong to 
continue to hold Mr As data. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, I have  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities that is, what I consider is more likely  than not to have  
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
I believe its likely there was a disagreement  during Mr As telephone calls to Hiscox in 
February 2019. And I can see Mr A was quick to e-mail and make follow up calls to Hiscox 
about this. So Im satisfied  on balance  the phone  calls were likely ended  abruptly by 
Hiscoxs staff.
So I now need to decide if the actions it took have  caused Mr A any significant distress and 
whether the way it handled his complaint was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Although the call recordings in question are not available I can see why Mr A would have 
found Hiscox ending  the calls with him frustrating.  But having said this I believe Hiscox has 
taken the correct action by apologising (more  than once) to him. I note he isnt happy  with 
the manner of the apologies but Im satisfied they fairly reflect  whats happened here. 
I accept it must have been frustrating for Mr A to receive communication  from Hiscox about 
his quote and having to make numerous calls to try and resolve this issue. But Im not 
Ref: DRN65723232satisfied this would have likely caused  enough  distress to ask Hiscox to issue a further  
apology to him or make a compensatory  award. 
Hiscox has accepted it could have handled this issue better  and said the correct feedback 
would be given to staff in order to improve its service in relation to data protection enquiries.  
From the information Ive seen Im satisfied it took the issue Mr A was raising seriously.  
Additionally I dont think the way it has handled  these issues  is likely to have caused Mr A 
any significant detriment  or led to the wrong outcome after considering  the overall 
circumstances. 
Therefore I wont be asking Hiscox to take any further action in relation to this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6572323