K820x#14complaint
Mr V doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS)  to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to repay  a debt from which  he was discharged 
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr V complained to RBS in 2017 that he had been mis-sold PPI on seven loans.
RBS investigated  and upheld Mr Vs complaint. RBS wrote to Mr V offering compensation. 
Mr V accepted RBS  offer.  
However, in 2011,  Mr V had granted a trust deed   which became a protected trust deed   
for his creditors. 
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his/her creditors, which 
is administered by a trustee. 
Mr V was subsequently  discharged from his trust deed in 2016.
RBS paid Mr V some  of the compensation but it used the majority of the compensation to 
repay outstanding monies that it says Mr V hadnt  fully repaid, despite Mr V being  
discharged from his protected trust deed. 
Mr V, unhappy he hadnt received all of the compensation, brought his complaint  to our service.
Mr V says it is unfair  for RBS to use the PPI compensation to repay  a debt from which  he 
has been discharged. Mr V explained that there  had been a court  case  which focused on 
who PPI compensation  should be paid to when a consumer has been discharged  from a 
protected trust deed.  Because of this, Mr V says all of the compensation should  be paid 
directly to him.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. He thought RBS had acted fairly  in using the 
compensation to repay the borrowing that was left unpaid despite Mr V being discharged 
from his trust deed.  
Mr V disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the matter hasnt been  resolved, its been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain where our services  powers come from.
We were created by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA).  This Act also 
created whats now called the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).
Section 225 of FSMA explains  that were here to resolve disputes quickly  and with minimum 
formality. And section 228 says a complaint is to be determined by reference  to what is, in 
the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN62742682Alongside FSMA, the FCA sets out, in its handbook, some rules  for us to follow. These rules 
are known as the DISP  rules  and they can be found online.
DISP 3.6.1 R repeats  section 228 of FSMA. DISP 3.6.4 R adds that, when considering what 
is fair and reasonable, an ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
It has already been agreed that the PPI policies were mis-sold. So I wont  be looking at how 
the PPI came to be sold as that is no longer in dispute. And Mr V hasnt raised  any concerns 
about the amount of compensation RBS has offered.  Although from looking at what  RBS has 
offered it includes everything  I would  expect to see. 
All that is left for me to decide  is whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use the PPI 
compensation to repay the outstanding amount that Mr V says was written  off after he was 
discharged from his protected trust deed. 
Mr V say as he was discharged from his protected trust deed and in light of relevant  law 
(Scots law) all of the compensation should be paid directly  to him. 
RBS says it has the right to offset  the compensation against monies Mr V hasnt fully repaid.
Is it fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to repay an outstanding amount owed  
despite Mr V being discharged from his protected trust deed?
There have been  some court cases about  to whom PPI compensation should  be paid when 
a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed. And this is the law that Mr V 
says I should  rely on in determining what should happen to the compensation. 
Ill summarise  the relevant  court cases.
In July 2018, the Supreme Court  issued a judgment  looking at what should happen to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed completed.  The court  case  was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation  should not be paid to the trustee 
for the benefit  of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Another case that is also relevant is Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc [2017]  SAC 
(Civ) 1. And this is the case  that is more relevant to Mr Vs situation.
In Donnelly , the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a 
debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this 
has been appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Ref: DRN62742683Above, Ive explained  I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. But Im not bound  to follow  it. And if 
I decide to depart from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware  of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But, and 
importantly, within my role I must also apply an over-arching test of whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Vs complaint  as required of me through  
FSMA Section 228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation  to repay  the monies Mr V 
borrowed and didnt  fully repay. Ill explain why.
RBS has provided evidence to show that the loans, at the time they were written off, had an 
outstanding balance of around £16,000. This is money that Mr V wouldnt ever have had to 
repay to RBS. 
The fact that Mr V entered into a protected  trust deed and was discharged from his debt, 
when his trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think it would be unfair  to tell RBS to pay the PPI compensation  to Mr V, when Mr V 
wouldnt have had to pay back the many thousands of pounds  he borrowed.  
So it follows  that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to repay the borrowing 
that was left unpaid and that Mr V wouldnt have  ever had to repay.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to use 
the PPI compensation to repay the monies  left unpaid when Mr Vs trust deed came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6274268