K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the way in which Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) handled  his Section 75 claim.
background
In February 2017  Mr S entered  into a credit agreement with BPF to finance some  new 
windows. The total amount initially payable  under  the agreement was £9,694.06 over a 
period of 60 months with monthly  repayments of £100.77. The amount payable changed 
when Mr S decided to pay a higher deposit  but in any event the agreement was never  taken 
up and no payments have been made  by Mr S.
The windows were  installed by a third party in May 2017. Mr S wasnt  happy with the 
installation. He refused  to sign it off and made a complaint. The supplier/installer produced a 
rectification sheet which included removing some  of the frames  and re-plastering.
Mr S says he hasnt been able to get the supplier/installer to return  since  June  2017.  
Because the agreement was never taken up, the supplier/installer hasnt been  paid by BPF. 
It started  pursuing Mr S directly for payment.
Mr S contacted BPF in September 2017  and a Section 75 claim  was logged. BPF says it 
found it difficult to make  contact with Mr S. It took the view that the supplier/.installer  should  
be allowed the opportunity to rectify the installation. In March 2018  BPF issued a letter to Mr 
S rejecting his Section  75 claim. Mr S wasnt happy with BPFs  response and complained  to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said there was no dispute that the windows 
werent of satisfactory  quality. He was satisfied that remedial works had been unsuccessful  
and said that Mr S should be allowed  to reject the windows. The investigator said that BPF 
should refund the balance of the deposit (£686.78) and arrange for the windows to be 
removed and collected, refund the costs  of removing and refitting the shutters, refund the 
costs of any remedial  work and pay compensation.
Initially BPF didnt agree.  It said that because Mr S hadnt taken up the credit  agreement 
there was no Section  75 liability.  Subsequently BPF agreed that it did have Section 75 
liability. But it disagreed  with the investigators suggested redress  and felt that the 
supplier/installer should be allowed the opportunity  to complete the remedial works.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, Section 75 gives a customer an equal  right to claim against  the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Ss complaint against BPF, I would 
need to be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that 
BPFs response to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
It might be helpful for me to set out my role here.  In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  may have  under  
Ref: DRN69964822Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Ss complaint 
Ive taken Section  75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same 
conclusion as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S pursued a claim for breach of 
contract.
Has there  been  a breach  of contract?
The relevant  law says that goods must  be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply,  and that services must  be performed with reasonable skill and care. If this 
isnt the case,  then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Ive looked at the available evidence to determine whether the windows were fit for purpose  
and/or installed  with reasonable skill and care. Ive had regard to the comments  made  by 
both parties and Ive looked at the rectification  report. The supplier  has said that the items 
requiring rectification  are minor and says it hasnt been able to carry out these works 
because Mr S wouldnt sign the rectification sheet and wouldnt allow it back  on site. The 
report says that some  of the windows have been fitted with dummy  vents  rather  than actual 
vents and that there is damage  to some of the frames and boards.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a business is allowed one opportunity  to rectify any 
faults. Its clear from the rectification report that there are faults. The supplier says it hasnt 
been allowed  the opportunity to put things right.
Ive reviewed some of the emails between Mr S and the supplier. These cover the months  of 
June, July and August  2017. Mr S has highlighted  a number of issues with the windows. I 
cant see that the supplier  made any attempt to rectify the faults  during  this time. It was many  
months before rectification was offered,  by which time Mr S had lost faith in the supplier. 
Based on what Ive read Im not persuaded that the supplier was willing to rectify the faults.
I dont agree with the suppliers comments that the faults are minor. Ive got concerns  that the 
dummy vents mean that the property  isnt properly ventilated, which could lead to damp  
issues. The rectification report  says that some  frames need  to be removed.  I would class  any 
rectification which  involves removing newly installed windows as major.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think the windows have been  installed with reasonable skill 
and care. There are also faults identified with the windows themselves. I think there  was 
reasonable opportunity for the supplier to rectify  the faults in June, July and August 2017 but 
it failed to do so. The relationship between  Mr S and the supplier has now broken down so I 
dont think it should  be given the chance to put things right now.
What should the remedy  be?
Where breach of contract is established  under  section 75, Id expect the finance provider to 
take steps to put things right as if the breach hadnt occurred.
In this case, I think Mr S should be allowed to reject the windows. Hes paid a deposit  to the 
supplier, part of which was paid on a third party credit card and which has already been  
refunded. BPF should refund the balance of the deposit.
Mr S hasnt made any payments under the agreement so there  are no payments to refund. If 
the agreement  has been registered on Mr Ss credit file, it should be removed.
Ref: DRN69964823BPF must liaise with the supplier to arrange  the removal and collection of the windows. This 
should be arranged  at the same  time as Mr S arranges for his new windows to be installed 
so that hes not left without any windows.
If any remedial or cosmetic work is required as a result of removing  the old windows, and 
provided that these  are separately itemised by the new installer,  BPF should refund these.
Mr S has shutters which will need  to be removed as part of the process of removing the old 
windows and fitting the new ones.  BPF should cover the costs  of removing and refitting  the 
shutters, provided  that these  costs  are separately  itemised by the new installer.
I recognise that having the old windows removed is going to cause some physical 
inconvenience to Mr S. Im able to ask BPF to compensate Mr S for this because  its directly 
linked to the remedy Im asking it to apply. I think BPF should pay compensation of £500  for 
the inconvenience that removing the windows will cause.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Clydesdale Financial Services Limited must:
Allow rejection of the windows
Refund the balance of the deposit (£686.78)  together with simple interest of 8% from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Remove the agreement from Mr Ss credit file
Liaise  with the supplier to arrange  the removal  and collection of the old windows
Pay for any remedial  work necessary as a result of removing the old windows
Pay for the removal and refitting  of the shutters
Pay compensation of £500 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6996482