K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Portafina LLP (formerly Portal Financial  Services LLP)  wrongly  advised  
him to switch three personal pension plans  (PPPs)  to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2020.  Ive recapped the background below:
Mr C was referred to Portafina  by a third party in 2013. His circumstances  and pension  
provision were recorded as follows:
He was 57 years old and single
He was in poor health. He had a back injury, was awaiting a shoulder  replacement 
and had recently been hospitalised
He was unemployed and receiving Employment Support Allowance (ESA) benefits
He was living in a housing association property and received housing and council tax 
benefits which covered the cost of his rent
He had £3,200 in credit card debt. Payment  Protection Insurance  (PPI) was 
temporarily covering  the monthly  repayments
His monthly income was around £284.  His monthly expenditure equalled the same 
amount
Apart from his state pension  entitlement, his only retirement  provision was the three 
PPPs he held with one provider. Their total value was around  £76,000
Apart from his pensions he had no other assets. He expected to retire  at age 66
Portafinas Client Information Form and Personal Financial Questionnaire recorded Mr Cs 
objectives as:
He didnt want to take tax free cash (TFC)  or an income immediately as he was 
managing to get by. But as his PPI cover was limited, he wanted  to be able to access  
TFC when he needed it. He wanted  his fund to remain invested, with the option of 
drawing down income when needed
He wanted  greater investment fund choice
He wanted  to consolidate his existing pensions and have one set of charges
He wanted  better  performance and to improve average growth
He wanted  to pass benefits onto a named party in the event of his death
Portafinas suitability  letter dated 29 October 2013  said, amongst other things:
Mr C objectives for transferring were:
 
-To consolidate his plans
-Future Drawdown
-To have  greater investment fund choice
-To benefit from a potentially higher  investment performance, which  was of 
greater importance  than having  lower  charges
-To switch to a cheaper scheme
Ref: DRN64763692Mr Cs risk profile suggested he had a Moderately Adventurous  attitude  to 
investment risk (ATR)
To achieve Mr C objectives,  Portafina  recommended he transfer  his PPPs  to a SIPP 
and invest in the following funds:
-Lakeview UK Investments  9.00%
-Marbella Resort & Spa  16.20%
-Real Estate Investments USA  18.00%
-Strategic Residential  Developments  16.80%
-Invesco Perpetual European High Income  Z shares  5.50%
-Premier Multi Asset  Distribution  5.00%
-Standard Life Dynamic Distribution  4.50%
-Kames Ethical Cautious Managed D Acc  3.00%
-Premier Multi Asset  Income  & Growth  4.00%  
-Invesco Perpetual Managed Income   4.00%
-Old Mutual Managed   4.00%
-Cash - 10.00%
By following its recommendation Portafina  said Mr C would meet  his objectives  and benefit 
from a wide selection  of funds to ensure [his] pension  [achieved]  the best possible growth  in 
the most  effective funds.
Mr C agreed to Portafinas recommendations and in April 2014 the value of his PPPs  
(£79,355.82) was transferred to a new SIPP for investment. As an initial fee Portafina was 
paid 5% of the total value transferred. It was also agreed that Portafina would be paid 1% of 
the value of Mr Cs SIPP  each year for its review service.
In late January 2016 Portafina realised a proportion of Mr Cs pension  hadnt been invested 
as intended; 63.95% had been placed in Cash while his remaining funds had been invested 
as follows:
-Invesco Perpetual European High-Income Z shares  6.43%
-Invesco Perpetual Managed Income   4.83%
-Kames Ethical Cautious Managed B Acc  3.79%
-Old Mutual Managed   4.00%
-Premier Multi Asset  Income  & Growth  5.01%  
-Premier Multi Asset  Distribution  5.76%
-Standard Life Dynamic Distribution  5.49%
-Old Mutual Managed   5.01%
Portafina wrote to Mr C to explain the situation. It calculated hed lost out on £1,055.93 in 
growth and offered to add this amount to his pension  fund. It also offered £100 in vouchers 
and proposed to sell Mr Cs existing investments and invest  his SIPP (including the 
£1,055.93 it would add) in the following funds:
-Dimensional Global  Short-Dated  Bond Fund   15%
-Dimensional World Equity Fund   72.5%  
-Henderson UK Property Unit Trust  4.5%
-Premier Pan European Property   3%
-Cash  5% 
Ref: DRN64763693Mr C accepted Portafinas offer and agreed to its investment recommendations. 
In December 2017, with the assistance of a claims management company (CMC),  Mr C 
raised a complaint against Portafina  about the suitability  of the advice hed received.
Portafina responded to Mr Cs complaint  and didnt uphold  it. It said the transfer  and 
investments recommended were suitable  based  on Mr Cs circumstances and objectives  at 
the time of its advice.
Unhappy with Portafinas response, the CMC representing Mr C referred his complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators  considered the matter and said that the complaint should  be upheld.  
In summary  he said:
Portafina recommended a high-risk  investment strategy which  was unsuitable for Mr 
C
He disagreed with Portafinas conclusion Mr C was a moderately  adventurous 
investor and felt he was more  likely  to be cautious  or, at most, balanced
Consideration ought to have been given  to other funds  Mr C couldve invested  in 
while remaining in his ceding scheme
No comparison regarding costs  and charges had been carried  out to determine 
whether the switch  was financially viable
The switch resulted in increased  and unnecessary costs which werent in Mr Cs best 
interests
Our investigator set out how he thought Portafina  should put things right, which  included  a 
loss calculation and paying Mr C £200 for trouble and upset caused.
While Mr C didnt  disagree with our investigator, Portafina did. Portafina didnt think Mr C 
had suffered a loss. If anything, it said it appeared he was better  off as a result  of the switch. 
Because no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a decision.  
And my provisional findings were as follows:
I apologise to both parties for the length of time weve had this complaint. Ive considered  all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. 
Ill explain  why. But before I do, I should emphasise  that while Ive taken note of the 
extensive arguments and points raised, I have limited my response to the issue  I consider to 
be central to this complaint. That is to say, whether the advice Portafina gave Mr C was 
suitable.
In 2008, the regulator  issued a report entitled  quality of advice on pension  switching.  The 
report provided examples  of good,  compliant and poor practices it found regarding  the 
quality of advice.  It mentioned several  examples of what it thought could constitute 
unsuitable advice.  Amongst others,  this included:
Switching to a pension that was more  expensive than a stakeholder, but a 
stakeholder pension would have met the customers needs
Ref: DRN64763694Switching to a pension that incurred extra product  costs  without good reason. This 
outcome involved  assessing  cases where,  for example, the reason for the switch was 
for investment  flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund 
performance, but there was no evidence  the new scheme  was likely to be better;  or 
the reason was flexibility of a drawdown  option, but there was no evidence  that this 
option was needed
Switching to a pension to make investments that didnt match  a customers ATR and 
personal circumstances
With the regulators position in mind, Im not satisfied from everything Ive seen, that the 
advice Portafina  gave Mr C was reasonable. Overall, I dont think  the product  costs which  
resulted from Portafinas advice were justified. Nor do I think Mr C had the experience, 
knowledge or ATR to assess or fully appreciate the switch or the investments Portafina 
recommended. Mr Cs circumstances at the time of the advice  indicate  to me that he didnt 
have the capacity to bear the risk of loss the switch represented. And I dont believe he 
wouldve agreed to the switch and investment approach if hed sufficiently understood them.
For simplicity, Ill deal with each of the reasons  Portafina gave  for its recommendation in 
turn.
To consolidate  Mr Cs plans 
Portafina has said Mr C wanted to consolidate  his three pensions  into one plan and that its 
recommendation he switch to a SIPP enabled him to achieve  this objective. I dont disagree 
that switching  meant  Mr C could hold all his plans  within one arrangement.  But Im not 
persuaded this was a sufficient reason for Portafinas switching advice.
Although Mr C held three separate  PPPs, Im mindful that they were all with the same  
provider. And from what Ive seen, Mr C would also have been  able to use their combined 
value when he came  to take retirement  benefits.  So, he didnt appear to be losing out on any 
purchasing power  as a result of holding  three  distinct plans. 
Portafinas notes  from the time said Mr C would consider consolidating his plans so they 
were in one more manageable fund. But Ive seen nothing to indicate there were any 
identifiable issues or complications with the administration or management of Mr Cs plans 
as they were, such that switching for this reason would be of significant benefit.  If 
consolidation really  was one of Mr Cs objectives, I think  Portafina,  as the expert  Mr C was 
relying on, needed to identify what a more manageable  fund/arrangement  really meant to 
Mr C in practice and establish whether what he may have perceived as a problem was a real 
difficulty that meant switching was necessary  or even worthwhile. I cant  see that Portafina 
did this and so Im not satisfied this was a good enough reason for advising Mr C to switch. 
To pass benefits  on in the event of Mr Cs death
The client  information  form completed  for Mr C said he wanted  to pass his pension benefits  
onto family  or a named  person when  he died. But I havent seen anything which 
demonstrates that switching  to a SIPP would lead to any significant improvement  on the 
death benefits Mr C already  had under his ceding scheme or that his pension benefits  would  
die with him if he didnt switch. Portafinas suitability report  didnt  make  any detailed  
Ref: DRN64763695reference to death benefits  for example,  the death benefits he already had compared  to 
what hed be gaining  by switching. And theres nothing to indicate Portafina provided  Mr C 
with specific information  regarding this, such that he was able to make  an informed decision 
about switching  for this reason. So, I dont  think switching  to secure better  death  benefits 
was a reasonable justification for Portafinas  recommendation.   
Mr Cs ATR and capacity for loss
Portafina says its advice that Mr C switch  and make specific investments was based  on his 
ATR and capacity for loss. It assessed  Mr Cs ATR as moderately adventurous  based  on 
the Risk Profiling  Attitude  Questionnaire  he answered. Portafinas  Suitability Report  
described this as someone who was usually:
an experienced investor with moderate to high levels of financial knowledge 
willing to take on investment  risk with a substantial proportion  of their available 
assets
able to make up their mind on financial matters  quickly and would usually take a 
gamble where  potential rewards are attractive
Whilst I agree some  of the answers Mr C gave  to the questionnaire might have suggested he 
was willing  to take some degree of risk, I think other  answers shouldve led Portafina to 
question whether the assessment of his risk profile  was correct. There  were clear 
inconsistencies with some of the answers  Mr C gave and what  Portafina knew  of his 
circumstances at the time. For example, Mr C provided the following answers to the 
statements below:
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  Agree 
I associate the word  risk with the idea of opportunity  Disagree 
I am willing to take substantial investment  risk to earn substantial  returns   Strongly 
Agree 
I feel comfortable about investing  in the stock market  Disagree 
I have little experience  investing in stocks and shares   Agree 
I feel comfortable investing in property  Agree 
I have little experience  investing in property  Agree 
From what  Ive seen theres  no persuasive evidence Mr C was either an experienced or 
moderately adventurous investor. While the risk profiling  questionnaire he answered may 
have been a useful starting point, I think Portafina  needed  to use this as part of a much  
wider discussion about risk with Mr C; his answers  needed to be considered in the context of 
his overall circumstances. A willingness to accept a degree of risk isnt the only factor  to 
consider in providing suitable advice. The degree  of risk Mr C was in a position to take was 
also material  his capacity to accept losses in the context of his overall circumstances was 
a key consideration.
Portafina said it determined Mr Cs capacity  for loss for its recommendation to be a suitable  
level. It said this was based on Mr Cs situation  and his answers  to several  questions. Some 
of the questions (and corresponding notes)  were  as follows:
How high is your income  relative  to your  spending needs?
The more  surplus  income  you have the more you will be able to cope with any investment 
losses.
Ref: DRN64763696What is the value of your assets  (housing; investments; business etc) relative to your 
liabilities and spending needs?
The higher  the value  of your assets  relative  to your liabilities and spending  needs,  the more  
you will be able to cope with any investment losses.
How easy  would it be for you to reduce the amount you spend?
The more  flexible your spending, the more you can adjust to cope with any investment 
losses.
Will you be supported financially by a spouse  or other family  member if 
circumstances require?
If a spouse or other family member has the potential  to provide financial support, you have 
more scope to cope with investment losses.
Mr Cs answers  to these questions arent provided in the report. But given the above 
considerations, coupled with what was known about Mr C circumstances (i.e. he was single, 
his income was low, he had very limited assets  and no disposable income),  I dont think it 
was reasonable  for Portafina to conclude Mr C had a suitable  level of Capacity for Loss  for 
the investments  it went on to recommend  and or that he could  readily take a gamble with 
what little he had. Nor do I agree that Portafinas conclusion that moderately adventurous 
was an accurate reflection of Mr Cs ATR. And I dont  accept  that, as Portafina claims, Mr C 
not raising any objection to what Portafina determined  his ATR and capacity for loss to be, 
is indicative of either  being  correct or fair conclusions  to reach.
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr C clearly wasnt in a strong position financially. He was 
unemployed and almost  wholly  reliant  on state  benefits for his basic  needs. And given his 
poor state of health it seemed unlikely Mr C would be able to return to work and substantially  
improve his circumstances in the foreseeable future. Mr C had no savings, assets  or 
investments other than his pension funds. So, it seems to me his pensions  were his most 
valuable assets   apart from his state  pension  entitlement, they represented all he had to 
rely on for retirement income.
Im not satisfied that Portafinas assessment of Mr Cs ATR or capacity for loss was an 
accurate appraisal  of the investment risk Mr C was prepared or able to take with his pension 
funds. Based on what Portafina knew  about Mr Cs circumstances and investment 
experience, I think it wouldve been  more reasonable to conclude  that Mr C was a relatively  
cautious investor. And on this basis, I dont think he had the capacity  to accept the level of 
risk to his pension funds  that Portafinas recommendation presented.
To benefit from higher investment  performance, have greater investment choice  and 
achieve the best possible  growth in the most effective funds 
While wanting to improve the performance  of a pension arrangement is a common  and 
understandable objective,  I havent  seen anything  that makes  me think  a switch for this 
reason was adequately demonstrated  by Portafina to be in Mr Cs best interests  at the time.  
Portafinas Personal Financial Questionnaire recorded that Mr C wanted to improve [the] 
average growth of his pension and have  better  investment  performance. Its suitability report  
said there was the possibility the benefits available under Mr Cs new SIPP  arrangement 
would exceed  the benefits he held with his existing  provider. 
Ref: DRN64763697At the time,  two of Mr Cs plans (valued at £13,415  and £37,714 respectively) were 100%  
invested in his providers With Profits fund.  The performance of these plans had been 
relatively limited with average  growth  of around 2.31% each year over five years. Mr Cs 
third plan (with a fund value of £25,226) was held 50% in With Profits and 50% in his 
providers Managed fund. The performance of this plan had been much more  favourable  with 
average growth of around 8.45% over five years. 
Although past performance isnt a guarantee of future performance,  I can appreciate why Mr 
C may have  wanted  to benefit from higher investment performance overall. However, Im not 
persuaded switching for this reason was something Portafina sufficiently explored or 
adequately evidenced was likely to result  in Mr Cs objective in this regard being met. And 
not to such a degree that the risks Mr C would likely be taking to achieve higher performance  
was commensurate with his circumstances,  ATR and capacity for loss. I should also say that 
where Mr Cs plans  were originally invested  doesnt suggest to me that he was the 
moderately adventurous investor Portafina assessed him to be. I dont think they were 
indicative of Mr Cs ability to take greater risks with his only retirement  provision or his 
appreciation of the risks associated with the switch and investments Portafina was 
recommending. 
Portafinas references to Mr Cs objective of higher investment performance  in its suitability 
report were rather  general. There doesnt  appear  to be anything  to show  a discussion took 
place between Mr C and Portafina to establish  the level of growth or future income Mr C was 
aiming for. Nor have I seen that any projections  or illustrations were  produced  to help 
Portafina determine and Mr C understand whether the level of performance being sought by 
switching was realistic. So, its not clear  on what  basis Portafina was able to say that by 
switching it could ensure  [Mr Cs] pension  [would] achieve the best possible growth in the 
most effective funds. 
Portafina has said that based  on information it gathered from a call with Mr C on 3 
September 2013, it provided Mr C with suitable advice. But having listened to the call, Im 
not satisfied its contents ought reasonably to have led it to conclude that switching was the 
best course of action  for Mr C to take in the circumstances.  
In particular, I note that the majority of the reasons Portafina gave for the switch  identified 
as Mr Cs stated objectives in the suitability report  were actually factors  raised by the 
Portafina paraplanner Mr C spoke  with. They werent specifically articulated by Mr C. For 
example, it was the paraplanner who raised  the consolidation of his three  plans as 
something Mr C might  consider to avoid paying three  sets of charges. But Mr C responded 
saying this wasnt something hed really thought  about. There  was nothing to suggest this 
was something he was materially concerned about. And as to investment performance, Mr C 
didnt say there was any real issue with this. Again, the paraplanner brought up the matter of 
the performance of Mr Cs plans, saying  it [wasnt]  bad, but could be better. It also 
suggested Mr Cs plans  could be moved  to a more manageable arrangement, giving him 
the growth he required year on year. Again, Mr C has no significant response  to this. There  
was certainly nothing to indicate that benefiting  from higher investment performance was of 
greater importance to Mr C than having lower charges as Portafina suggested was one of 
Mr Cs stated objectives in its suitability report.
In the main,  I think that while  Portafinas  call with Mr C on 3 September 2013 did allow  the 
particulars of Mr Cs financial situation and personal  circumstances  to be discussed, Im 
unable to agree that the information Portafina did gather  from this conversation  shouldve  
reasonably led Portafina to produce the conclusion that Mr C had had a suitable capacity for 
Ref: DRN64763698loss for its recommendation. I am also concerned that in some instances, Portafinas  
suitability report either misrepresented or downplayed some of the contents  of the call. 
Overall the call and subsequent  suitability  report didnt  appear geared towards Mr C making 
a considered assessment of the reasons why he should or shouldnt be switching. 
Ive considered the SIPP illustration Portafina  provided to Mr C and note that the selected 
investment sectors  the illustration was based on didnt reflect those set out in Portafinas 
suitability report.  For example,  Portafinas report recommended that most of Mr Cs funds 
(60%) be invested in Property, whereas  the illustration made no mention of Property  as an 
intended investment  sector and instead  listed International Equities as the sector where 
most of Cs funds would  be invested (47%). Based on this I dont believe Mr C wouldve 
been able to draw  any meaningful or relevant conclusion  from the information  he was 
provided here. At best the illustration wouldve caused confusion and at worst  I consider it 
couldve been misleading. Overall Im unable to agree with Portafina when it says Mr C was 
provided with all the information he needed to make an informed decision about whether  
Portafinas switch  proposition and make certain investments was likely to be in his best 
interests.
In the suitability report, one of the justifications provided for Portafinas  switching 
recommendation was so Mr C could access  a wide range of funds. But Im not persuaded 
this or the opportunity to invest outside conventional funds was something Mr C really 
required, or which was appropriate given his experience. However, if switching funds or 
having greater  investment  choice was important to Mr C, Im mindful that he couldve 
accessed alternatives within his ceding  scheme   these  included funds which  shared  some 
of the same  or similar  asset class as several  of the funds  Portafina initially  advised  Mr C to 
invest in. Theres insufficient  evidence the alternative options (including  switching  to a 
cheaper alternative like a stakeholder) were  adequately explored before being discounted by 
Portafina. 
Within the investment portfolio Portafina  first recommended, Ive seen that it advised Mr C to 
place around 60% of his funds in investments which were either  illiquid, abroad or 
unregulated; in some instances,  they shared all three of these high-risk  characteristics. 
Some of the recommended funds involved investing  in UK and overseas property 
development projects/companies where the targeted returns were said to be up to 15% per 
annum. Risk and reward are inextricably  linked, and in my view, investments offering that 
level of return can reasonably be assumed to be high risk. Especially at a time when interest 
rates were  generally  quite low.
Portafina did provide  Mr C with some  information  about the recommended  investments and 
referred to their illiquidity.  However, I think it downplayed  the risks associated with this when 
it said that despite illiquidity, the investments do produce returns  that can be used to meet 
your income requirements and as such are considered suitable ().  Its not clear  to me how 
Portafina was able to make  this determination.  I also think  its statement was misleading 
given Portafina  didnt appear  to assess or record what Mr Cs income requirements were or 
show that the companies money was to be loaned to as part of the investment funds had 
established track records such that property completion and trading were likely to be 
successful. There was a real risk the properties  might prove  difficult  to sell and not generate 
any returns. I havent seen any persuasive evidence the new scheme and in particular, the 
recommended underlying  investments were  likely  to outperform Mr Cs existing arrangement  
to such a degree that the switch would  be worthwhile.  I also cant  see that the potential 
failure of Mr Cs investments or risk of significant  capital erosion were  sufficiently highlighted 
to him. But even if it was, Im not satisfied the investment portfolio Portafina initially  
Ref: DRN64763699recommended was suitable  anyway.  Disclosing the risks of the recommended Portfolio to Mr 
C wouldnt have made it suitable.
Although I recognise  that, following an error,  Mr Cs funds werent invested as originally 
intended, I still think Portafinas first investment recommendation  is relevant when 
considering its reasons  for advising Mr C to switch in the first place. It also formed  part of the 
basis on which Mr C accepted Portafinas advice he switch. 
After realising more than 60% of Mr Cs funds had been incorrectly placed in Cash  for over 
eighteen months, Portafina  went on to make new recommendations. This involved placing 
72.5% of Mr Cs money in Dimensionals  World Equity Fund and 15% in its Global Short-
Dated Fund.  The former  resulted in Mr Cs money being overwhelmingly  invested in equities  
with significant  international  exposure. 
Ive seen Dimensionals Key Investor Information for both funds. The World  Equity  fund 
primarily invested in shares  of companies with exposure to developed and/or emerging 
markets; using a core strategy  involving a greater allocation to shares  of smaller sized  and 
valued companies. Im mindful that smaller  companies are generally  more vulnerable than 
larger companies to adverse market conditions, with their shares  also sometimes being  
more difficult to sell. The fund information  highlighted  the additional risks associated with the 
fund, such as, currency and market risks. And I think its reasonable to believe there could 
also be issuer specific,  economic or political risks presented  by investments in emerging 
markets.
With reference to risks,  Dimensional  gave its World  Equity  fund a risk and reward profile 
rating of 5 on a scale of 1 to 7. It explained this was () because  of the high range and 
frequency of price  movements (volatility) of the underlying investments (). The investor 
profile Dimensional attached to this fund said it was suitable for investors () prepared to 
accept a high degree of volatility. I dont think Mr C comfortably lined up with the type of 
investor this Dimensional  fund appeared to be geared towards. Although Mr Cs objective 
may have  been  to secure a higher-level  of investment performance, Im not persuaded he 
wouldve wanted, or had the capacity to expose  his capital to the level of risk I believe was 
associated with the fund in question. I think it was clear Mr C wasnt the moderately  
adventurous investor Portafina said was comfortable accepting a higher than average risk 
of large swings in value [who  wasnt] solely dependent on this part of their savings for their 
core retirement income. With the exception  of state benefits and the state  pension,  Mr C 
was dependent on his PPP savings.
Before switching to a SIPP, I cant see that Mr C had any direct experience making  
significant investments  in international  equities. That being so, I find it difficult  to conclude 
that investing so much  of his only pension provision  in equities with large international 
exposure, was likely to be consistent with his understanding and experience of investment 
risk, his objectives for his money  or an investment approach informed by what  shouldve 
been determined  to be his ATR.
Dimensional gave  its Global Short-Dated Fund a risk and reward  profile  rating of 2 on a 
scale of 1 to 7 because of the low range and frequency of price  movements  (volatility)  of the 
underlying investments referenced by the fund.  On the face of it this wouldnt appear  wholly  
inappropriate for someone  like Mr C. But I dont think this made the advice to switch suitable  
and Im conscious that Portafinas recommendation only involved  placing 15% of Mr Cs 
money in this apparently low risk fund; 72.5% was placed in Dimensionals World Equity 
fund.  
Ref: DRN647636910I appreciate theres  no single answer  to constructing  an investment portfolio. But I think  
Portafinas advice  to place over 87% of Mr Cs retirement provision in Dimensional  funds 
resulted in an excessive  exposure to one particular  fund and one fund manager. Although 
there may have been some diversification  within the funds, given their significant 
international exposure and the fact that a substantial  proportion of Mr Cs pension  money  
was tied up in one fund, primarily in one asset  class liable to fluctuate, I think  this further 
increased the risk to his investment if things went wrong. I cant see that any meaningful 
justification was given for why investing  in the Dimensional funds Portafina went  on to 
recommend was in Mr Cs best interests. As such, I dont think  Portafinas advice in this 
respect was suitable.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Cs money was ultimately invested. I believe Portafinas  recommendation 
that Mr C switch to a SIPP in the first place is the most important consideration. And were  it 
not for the switch, Im not persuaded Mr C wouldve gone on to make  the investments 
Portafina recommended.
Portafina has referred to the exceptional growth  Mr Cs SIPP has experienced as a result 
of the switch and investments it recommended. I acknowledge the growth  Portafina  has 
pointed to and would  generally regard  this as positive. However, I dont take this to 
automatically mean the advice Mr C received  was suitable. It may however mean that any 
redress due to Mr C might be lower than it would otherwise  be had other investments been 
made. 
To take TFC when needed and access drawdown in the future 
Portafina has said another  reason  for its recommendation Mr C switch to a SIPP  was so he 
could take TFC when  he wanted and have  the flexibility of taking benefits via income 
drawdown. However, I cant see that either  of these were options Mr C didnt already have 
with his original  provider. Literature from Mr Cs ceding scheme  indicates  he was able to 
take benefits from his PPPs from age 55 (he was 57 years old at the time of Portafinas 
advice) and could access the income  drawdown  option without having to switch  to a new 
provider.
But even if Mr C wasnt able to access these  options  under  his ceding scheme, Im not 
persuaded they were reason enough for Portafinas  advice to switch at the time. Portafina  
said, it believed that at present the [SIPP] may be a suitable  place to draw [Mr Cs] income  
from in retirement () and that he may well decide income drawdown is preferable further 
down the line. But I think it was important for it to give more  consideration to Mr Cs position 
in retirement, ensuring hed have the appropriate  income provision in place  long-term. What  
may have  suited him at present or appeared preferable wasnt a reasonable basis on 
which to advise him to switch. If Mr C reached  the stage where he wanted  to access  TFC or 
the drawdown option and he knew exactly what he required, he couldve  considered  his 
options at that point  and where necessary, taken benefits from his existing scheme or  if 
sufficiently demonstrated  to be in his best interests  long-term  switched to another  provider.  
These werent things  Mr C needed  to make a decision about or incur  relatively  high costs  for 
at the time.
Although Mr C has used some of the flexibility available under his SIPP, I dont think this 
makes Portafinas recommendation suitable or negates what  Ive said above. As Ive said, I 
believe Mr C couldve accessed this flexibility under his ceding  scheme  and Im not 
Ref: DRN647636911convinced he had the ATR to suit the approach recommended in this instance. I would also 
say that having a number  of different plans as Mr C did couldve  afforded  him a certain  
degree of flexibility  in terms of staggering taking benefits, if he wished to do so.
Mr Cs PPPs  represented a significant  proportion of this pension provision  so his capacity 
for loss was limited. He was at the point of unemployment, ill health and in receipt  of 
retirement benefits, rather than much  earlier in his working life when taking on some  more 
risk to build  up funds mightve been  something  he was in a position  to consider. In the 
circumstances I think Portafinas  recommendation came at a time when Mr C shouldve  been 
advised to be reducing the level of risk he was taking  with his retirement provision. 
To switch to a cheaper scheme  
In addition to not being  satisfied that switching  for better investment performance,  improved 
death benefits, and flexibility, was justified  or suitable for Mr C, Ive also thought about the 
cost of the switch.
Portafina recorded that Mr Cs objective was to move to a cheaper scheme. And its 
suitability report said a pension switch might be suitable for Mr C for this very reason. 
Portafinas suitability  letter confirmed the following charges  would apply if Mr C switched:
an initial fee of 5% of the total value  transferred  to the SIPP
a 1% ongoing advice fee
an annual management  charge  (AMC) of 0.5%
Additional fund charges also applied. As I understand  it, the charge for Dimensionals Global 
Short-Dated Fund was 0.28% and 0.40% for its World Equity Fund.  
Under Mr Cs ceding scheme  for the two pensions he had invested  in the With Profits Fund 
the charges were implicit and taken into account  before bonuses were declared.  There was 
no AMC. The same  applied to 50% of Mr Cs third pension  which  was invested in the With 
Profits fund. The AMC charge on the other  50% invested in the Managed  Fund was 0.5%.
Combined, the overall cost of the switch represented a sizable reduction in Mr Cs transfer 
value. The charges were  higher than Mr Cs existing arrangement, which  was invested in 
funds I consider were  already broadly in line with his circumstances, experience and what  I 
believe Portafina shouldve established  was his cautious or at most, balanced ATR. And 
bearing in mind the investment approach that would ordinarily be taken for such an investor, 
I dont think there was any great prospect of making up the charges via investment growth  
anytime soon  not without taking the risks associated with Portafinas recommendation, of 
which Mr C didnt appear to have any experience.
Portafinas suitability  report  did say that by switching Mr C might be moving to a contract 
with higher charges and that it may cost more  than his ceding scheme. But I dont think  it 
went far enough. In order to make an informed decision about  switching I think  Portafina 
needed to be explicit about the associated costs and ensure Mr C clearly understood the 
exact charges  under  his existing arrangement  compared with the specific charges under 
what Portafina was proposing. This included the potential  impact  this might  ultimately  have 
on the value of Mr Cs pension provision. 
Ref: DRN647636912Although Portafina  said benefiting from higher investment performance  was of greater 
importance to Mr C than having lower charges, for this to be a sound reason for switching, I 
think Portafina needed to carry out some form comparison or cost/benefit analysis. It needed  
to demonstrate there was a reasonable prospect the potential  for Mr C to be better off (as a 
result of the switch and incurring higher costs)  was enough to more  than compensate  for the 
risk Mr C might end up worse off. I cant see that Portafina did this. There was a risk the 
projected growth might not offset  the impact of any shortcomings for transferring and the 
costs deducted  for the advice itself. Even though Mr C may have been  attracted to higher 
levels of performance,  this didnt negate Portafinas  duty to give suitable advice. And given 
Mr Cs lack of investment experience I think he relied on Portafina  to act in his best interests  
and advise him accordingly.
Overall, Im not persuaded Portafinas principle reasons for its switching advice were sound.  
Having overstated  Mr Cs ATR, I think Portafina  went on to advise Mr C to switch and make  
investments in a way that exposed him to a level of risk which  exceeded what  he was willing  
 or in a position  to accept. I dont believe the information Portafina collected  ought 
reasonably to have  led it to the conclusion its recommendation was suitable  for Mr C. Nor 
am I satisfied that Portafina provided  Mr C with sufficient information or explained  things to 
him in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so he could make  an informed assessment or 
choice about his retirement planning. Rather  confusingly, I note that Portafinas suitability 
report set out the risks associated with transferring out of a final salary occupational  pension 
scheme when this wasnt relevant to Mr Cs situation. 
As I, like the investigator, consider Portafina shouldnt have advised Mr C to switch  to the 
SIPP, it follows that he wouldnt  have  gone  ahead with the switch of his PPPs. He also 
wouldnt have gone on to make the recommended  investments that the SIPP appears to 
have been set up to accommodate. 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C in the position, or as 
close as can reasonably be achieved, he should  be in, but for the unsuitable advice. Here, 
had he been suitably advised, I dont  think Mr C would have transferred his three personal 
pensions and gone on to make the recommended investments. Im satisfied his three 
personal pensions  wouldve  remained  invested where they were.  
Ordinarily Id direct Portafina to determine any loss Mr C has suffered by obtaining  notional  
transfer values  (as at the date of my decision) for Mr Cs three  pension  plans if they had not 
been transferred  to the SIPP and remained invested where they were and comparing this 
with the transfer  value  (as at the date of my decision) of Mr Cs SIPP.  However, the provider 
Mr C originally held his personal pensions with hasnt, despite several requests, been able to 
confirm itd be able to provide notional transfer values for Mr Cs plans following a final 
decision being issued.  In light of this, Im satisfied what Ive outlined  below is a reasonably 
proxy for the type of return that could have been  achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
What should Portafina  do?
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark  shown.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Ref: DRN647636913         Portafina should add interest  as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase  its value  
by the amount  of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr C £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the failings that occurred.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. Portafina should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP mixedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average  
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market). Where this 
Ref: DRN647636914applies, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Portafina should take ownership of any illiquid investment by paying a commercial  value  
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Portafina  may require that Mr C provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount  she may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.  
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr C's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position.  It does not mean  that Mr C 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude
Ref: DRN647636915I invited Mr C and Portafina  to respond to my provisional decision. Both confirmed receipt  of 
the provisional decision but neither provided any further comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
I remain of the view that Mr Cs complaint should  be upheld on the basis  I outlined  in my 
provisional decision.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C in the position, or as 
close as can reasonably be achieved, he should  be in, but for the unsuitable advice. Here, 
had he been suitably advised, I dont  think Mr C would have transferred his three personal 
pensions and gone on to make the recommended investments. Im satisfied his three 
personal pensions  wouldve  remained  invested where they were.  
Ordinarily Id direct Portafina to determine any loss Mr C has suffered by obtaining  notional  
transfer values  (as at the date of my decision) for Mr Cs three  pension  plans if they had not 
been transferred  to the SIPP and remained invested where they were and comparing this 
with the transfer  value  (as at the date of my decision) of Mr Cs SIPP.  However, the provider 
Mr C originally held his personal pensions with hasnt, despite several requests, been able to 
confirm itd be able to provide notional transfer values for Mr Cs plans following a final 
decision being issued.  In light of this, Im satisfied what Ive outlined  below is a reasonably 
proxy for the type of return that could have been  achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
What should Portafina  do?
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
         Portafina should add interest  as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase  its value  
by the amount  of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
Ref: DRN647636916age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr C £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the failings that occurred.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. Portafina should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP mixedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average  
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market). Where this 
applies, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Portafina should take ownership of any illiquid investment by paying a commercial  value  
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Portafina  may require that Mr C provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount  she may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN647636917To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.  
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr C's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position.  It does not mean  that Mr C 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to calculate and pay compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2020.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6476369