K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Money continued to add 
interest and charges to her account  and to send letters to her despite having  agreed not to 
do so.
background
In April 2018, Ms L contacted Post Office Money to say she was suffering from health 
issues. Two months later she contacted  it again to say she was in financial difficulty and her 
health issues had worsened. Post Office money  agreed to set up a repayment  plan for £30 a 
month and to freeze the interest and charges on her account for 12 months.
But despite  this interest and charges were  added to her account  so in September 2018 Mrs 
L had to contact Post Office Money to complain. She was also unhappy about the letters  ad 
correspondence she was receiving from Post Office Money about her account. Post Office 
Money refunded  the charges and interest  and apologised but said it had to continue to write 
to her about her arrears as this was a regulatory  requirement. It offered her £100 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience shed had. Mrs L remained unhappy and 
brought her complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator agreed that Post Office  Money  had made a mistake  by adding interest and 
charges to Mrs Ls account  after it had agreed  not to do so but it had refunded these,  
apologised and offered compensation, which he felt was reasonable. He understood that 
Mrs L had health  problems and that she was now having financial difficulties that were 
making this worse. But Post Office Money  had agreed a repayment plan, initially  at £30 a 
month, which it had now reduced to £5 a month  and had agreed to freeze the interest  and 
charges on Mrs Ls account for 12 months. He thought this was a reasonable response  to 
Mrs Ls situation at this time. And as the Post Office was required to send letters  to Mrs L 
about her account  he couldnt agree it had made  a mistake in sending  them.  He considered  
the compensation offered  was reasonable and for that reason he wouldnt be asking Post 
Office Money to do anything more.
Mrs L disagreed and said she didnt accept the letters were a regulatory  requirement as Post 
Office Money had said. She felt Post Office Money hadnt taken into account the impact this 
had had on her and her health and that £100 didnt reflect  the distress this had caused. She 
asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Post Office  Money has now confirmed that 2 payments totalling £185 have been paid to Mrs 
L for the distress caused  by whats  happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think Post Office  Money  
has dealt reasonably with this complaint so I wont be asking it to do anything more  as Ill 
now explain.
Ref: DRN60854792Im sorry  to see that Mrs L has been unwell and Ive seen the impact her current financial 
problems are having on this. In such  cases  Id expect a business  to respond positively and 
sympathetically and in this case I think that, overall,  Post Office Money has done  this by 
agreeing to freeze any interest and charges for a period  of twelve  months and by putting  in 
place a repayment plan.
But Mrs L says its still continuing  to write  to her about her account and the arrears.  Its clear 
from what she says that she finds these letters threatening and says its affecting  her 
health. Shed now like them to stop.
Ive given very careful consideration to what Mrs L says. I understand that she finds  the 
letters difficult but as Post Office Money has explained, its required to send regular updates 
to its customer  about  their accounts  so I cant reasonably ask it to stop contacting  Mrs L. 
completely. I note its agreed to stop sending  statements and its own collections letters so 
that Mrs L should now only receive the letters Post Office Money is required to send.
In respect of the compensation Ive seen Mrs L says she doesnt  feel £100 is enough to 
reflect the distress and upset shes been caused  by whats  happened. Theres  no precise 
way of calculating  such awards but Ive taken into account the impact this has had on Mrs L 
and the steps  Post Office  Money took to put matters  right. I can understand why Mrs L was 
upset to find interest and charges had been  added but Ive also seen  that as soon  as Post 
Office Money was told about this, it took steps straight away  to put matters  right.  
Since the complaint was raised  Post Office Money has provided information to show  its 
made two payments to Mrs L totalling £185. In the circumstances that seems a fair amount 
to reflect  the upset caused to Mrs L and in line with what Id have awarded for a complaint of 
that type. In the circumstances I wont be asking Post Office Money to pay anything more  to 
resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that the compensation already paid by Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading 
as Post Office Money is sufficient and I wont be asking it to pay anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6085479