K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services plc T/A: M&S  Bank  changed the 
address it held for him when it shouldnt have. 
background
Mr C has a credit card account with M&S. In June  2018 M&S  received a letter from a claims 
management company  (CMC) asking if Mr C had any accounts where payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  was present. This letter showed  an address for Mr C which  was different to 
the one M&S had for him. M&S changed its records in July 2018.
In August  2018  Mr C called M&S  to say he hadnt received his monthly statement. Over the 
next few weeks  there were a number of calls between Mr C and M&S.  In these it was 
established Mr C hadnt instructed a CMC, and the address M&S had taken from the letter it 
received in June  2018 wasnt his. His address was corrected in M&Ss records. 
Mr C was unhappy his address  had been  updated so easily, that a statement had been sent 
to someone elses  address, and with the service he was receiving in general. M&S didnt 
think it was wrong to update his address as it didnt think it was to know the CMCs letter  
wasnt genuine. It did apologise for not sending him a replacement  statement when it said it 
would, and for the inconvenience hed been caused.  It paid him £100  compensation in total 
in recognition of this. It also refunded  a charge, interest and amended  Mr Cs credit file. This 
was because hed missed a payment while this matter was going on. 
Mr C didnt think M&S had taken the matter seriously enough. He complained to our service.  
The investigator concluded, in summary, that:
-it had been  reasonable for M&S to change Mr Cs address following the letter  from 
the CMC;
-M&Ss actions around the charge, interest and credit file meant Mr C hadnt lost out 
financially; and
-Mr C had been caused frustration and inconvenience, but £100 compensation was a 
fair amount.  
Mr C didnt agree. He remained of the opinion his address shouldnt have been  changed,  
that the service  hed received had been poor, and that his complaint hadnt been taken 
seriously. He asked to pursue the matter further  so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator, for much the same reasons. 
The letter M&S received in June 2018 was from what appears to be a legitimate CMC. It 
contained Mr Cs details,  such as his first and last names, his date of birth,  and his previous 
address. It also contained an authorisation form which  would allow the CMC  to act on his 
behalf. I dont  think it would have been  apparent  to M&S that the letter and authorisation 
Ref: DRN62568892form werent genuine, or that the address given for Mr C wasnt  his correct address. So I 
think it was reasonable  for M&S to change Mr Cs address. It follows  that I dont think  it was 
wrong to send Mr Cs statement to the address  it thought  was his.
A minimum  monthly  payment wasnt paid to Mr Cs account when  it should  have been. This 
resulted in a charge, interest  and a late payment marker on Mr Cs credit file. M&S  refunded  
the charge and interest, and removed  the late payment marker.  So Im satisfied its done 
enough to ensure Mr C hasnt lost out financially, or that his credit  rating  has been adversely 
affected. 
Mr C feels let down by the service hes received. Hes said, amongst other things, that he 
was told hed been sent a replacement statement when  he hadnt, that calls disconnected or 
werent returned, and timescales werent  adhered to. He also feels the apology  he was given 
wasnt sufficient, and that M&S didnt take this matter  seriously.  
From M&Ss investigation notes and multiple  final response letters Im satisfied it did take the 
matter seriously. But Im also satisfied the customer service could have been better. In the 
overall circumstances  though, I consider  £100  compensation  fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Mr C.
my final decision
I dont require Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc T/A: M&S Bank to take any further 
action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6256889