K821x#15complaint
Ms H and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) failed to close  
down a sole trader account in the late Mr Ws name. This led to various issues  in running the 
business account. 
Ms H has brought  the complaint as the newly appointed solicitor  for the sole trader account. 
And Mrs W on behalf of the late Mr W. 
background
In the summer  of 2018 the late Mr W sadly died. He held a sole trader  account  with Natwest. 
Shortly after, Mrs W went into a branch  with a death certificate  to tell Natwest he had died. 
On 5 February 2019 Ms H was appointed by the Solicitors Regulation  Authority (SRA) as the 
supervising solicitor for the sole trader from 9 August 2018 for twelve months. This made  her 
a trustee of the client funds at the time of the complaint. In February 2019 a no-operations 
marker was placed on the business accounts,  so Mrs W made a complaint. Mrs W said she 
was unhappy  with how one of the complaint handlers had spoken  to her on the phone. She 
also said this meant  she was unable to add Ms Hs name to the account  and remove  some 
third party names. Natwest sent a final response on 18 February telling Mrs W the no-
operations marker  had been placed on the account  due to an admin error. And if Mrs W 
wanted to remove  it she would need to visit a branch with some identification. 
In early March 2019 Ms H and Mrs W noticed  a block  had been  put on the business 
accounts. With help from Ms H, Mrs W contacted  Natwest  to find out what had happened  
and to raise another complaint. Ms H and Mrs W said they were  unhappy  the block  had been 
put on with no explanation  of how to remove it. And the block  was causing  various  issues 
with the business continuing to operate, which in turn meant Ms H had to ask for help to 
cover some of the businesss costs.  They also said they were  unhappy Natwest  failed to 
make them aware of the correct way to close the sole trader  account when Mrs W notified  it 
of Mr Ws death  in 2018. 
On 18 March 2019 Natwest sent a further final response letter.  It said the no-operations  
marker had been  put on correctly in February 2019.  And because it was a sole trader  
account and Mr W had now died,  no further parties  could  be added to it. It also told Ms H 
and Mrs W the account  had now been passed to the bereavement team  and funds couldnt  
be released until it received a grant  of probate.  Natwest did uphold  the complaint in relation 
to the service it had provided to Mrs W. It said this wasnt  acceptable  so it offered her £250 
with an apology and flowers with its condolences. 
In late March 2019 Ms H brought the complaint to this service  with Mrs W. They also 
provided a grant of probate to Natwest. In early April 2019 Natwest  confirmed it had received 
everything it needed and the accounts were  marked for closure. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint. She felt Natwest  hadnt handled the complaint  
properly which had caused Ms H and Mr W trouble and upset so she asked it to pay £400. 
Natwest didnt agree. It felt the £250 it offered was fair because  it had worked  within 
standard timescales to close an account. Ms H also didnt agree with the investigators 
opinion and the compensation recommended. She said no explanation  had been  given why 
the block was placed on the account  and why it had to be closed. Also payments had to be 
Ref: DRN68384182covered by Ms H while the account was blocked.  This also had an effect  on the businesss  
reputation. 
So this complaint has now been  passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
And Ill explain why below. 
Im satisfied that Natwest failed to inform Mrs W of the proper process when  closing down 
the sole trader accounts. When Mr W died the sole trader  account  should have been closed 
and arrangements to transfer the funds  to an account in Ms Hs name.  From the evidence 
thats been provided Im satisfied the correct process wasnt  followed  due to human error 
following Mrs Ws visit to the branch in August 2018. And this has led to the issues  which  
happened in early 2019. 
The events which followed were a result of Natwest realising the sole trader  account in 
Mr Ws name should have already been  closed down. Their  response was to put a block  on 
the account until they had received the appropriate documentation to close down the 
account in the late Mr Ws name.  Here  this was a grant of probate, an executor mandate and 
evidence of Ms Hs appointment. If these had been  requested following Mrs Ws visit to the 
branch this is unlikely  to have caused as much inconvenience as it did after the block  was 
unexpectedly put on the account. 
An additional  problem  here was that Natwest also held on to the client money in the sole 
trader account without  an explanation. I believe it would have been surprising and stressful  
for Ms H to find out the account had been  blocked in early  2019. Although Mr W had died, 
the money in the sole trader account was client money and didnt form part of Mr Ws estate. 
So this should  have been released when Natwest was satisfied with the information  provided 
by Ms H to show her appointment taking  over from Mr W. 
I thought about  the approach this service normally takes when making considering  an award 
to both Mrs W and Ms H. Mrs W has brought the complaint on behalf of the late Mr W. Ms H 
at the time of the complaint was working  as a trustee of the client  money  the sole trader held 
and was appointed by the SRA. So both can receive  a compensatory  award due to the 
inconvenience caused by Natwest when dealing with the closure of the sole trader account. 
Natwest has offered £250 for the way it handled  the complaint. But I dont think that is 
enough here. Im satisfied  from the information provided by Ms H and Mrs W that the issues  
with the block  on the account and the way the complaints were handled caused 
inconvenience here in conducting the day to day running of the sole trader  account. 
Although Ms H was still acting in a professional capacity, there were issues with paying for 
the sole traders lease.  I also dont doubt  there were issues with the business trying  to pay 
clients and staff members, which would have been  stressful and inconvenient. There  was 
also a negative review  left online about  a clients money not being released. So I can 
understand why Ms H feels  Natwests actions potentially harmed the reputation of the sole 
trader. 
Ref: DRN68384183I can also understand why Ms H and Mrs W were  confused by Natwests communication and 
actions. And that this caused inconvenience  beyond  what  you would expect  to deal with 
when dealing with this type of issue. So I agree  with the investigator  that an additional £150 
would be a fair sum to award here.  
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Ms H and Mrs W £400 in 
total (including the £250 it has already offered). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mrs W, 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6838418