K820x#14Complaint
K, a business, says HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt do enough to help when it fell victim to a 
banking payment scam. It says HSBC should  have done more to prevent the payment going  
through.
Background
On 23 May 2018, K made an online  payment of £9,850 from its HSBC current account for, 
what it understood to be, professional tax advice.
K subsequently  discovered it had actually made the payment to a scammer who didnt 
provide any services in return for payment. K contacted HSBC on 31 August 2018  to tell it 
what had happened, and to see if there  was anything the bank could do to help.  HSBC  
contacted the scammers bank the same day to see if any of Ks money  could be recovered. 
But the scammers bank  confirmed that no money remained from Ks payment.
K was unhappy with how HSBC handled  things, so it referred  a complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at what had happened but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
The adjudicator felt HSBC had done all it reasonably  could to try and help, so they didnt 
think it needed to do anything more.
K disagreed, saying  the amount paid and payment method  used were  unusual enough for 
HSBC to at least contact K to query the transaction. So, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Ref: DRN69150472And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
K when  it made a payment  of £9,850 to a new payee in May 2018,  or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
But I dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual  enough  to say HSBC  
ought to have had concerns that K was being scammed.  The amount of Ks payment wasnt 
particularly unusual for it and it had been  authorised. Having reviewed Ks account activity  in 
the weeks and months  leading  up to the transaction, I dont think  it was sufficiently 
suspicious to conclude  HSBC ought  to have  identified that it may be potentially fraudulent. 
Ks noted that other,  legitimate, payments it had attempted  to make had been recognised by 
HSBC as suspicious and were questioned, and that this payment should  also have been 
questioned. But, as I say, there was little about this particular transaction  that could  
reasonably be considered  unusual or suspicious.  
Even if HSBC had flagged  the payment as suspicious, Im not persuaded K wouldnt still 
have authorised it. I say that because of the complex nature of the scam and the fact that K 
clearly genuinely  believed it was making  a payment for services  to be provided.
 
So, in the circumstances, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong by following the instructions 
K gave  and sending the money.
When, more than three months later, K told HSBC that it had been scammed the bank 
contacted the scammers bank later that day to see if any of Ks money  was still in the 
receiving account  and could be retrieved. Unfortunately, by that time, all of Ks money had 
gone. Its not unusual in scams like this for the scammers to withdraw funds quickly. 
Ref: DRN69150473Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of HSBC,  and it wouldnt have unrestricted  access  to that 
information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve  the money was all HSBC 
could do to help K at that stage. 
Its unfortunate that Ks lost out, and I understand that this whole experience  will have been 
hugely upsetting for those concerned. But, in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say 
that HSBC should have  done more to prevent K losing its money. I cant  hold HSBC  
responsible for K having fallen victim to a scam,  and I think  it did what it could to help once it 
knew what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to compensate K for 
its loss.
Im aware that another banks reimbursed K under, what K says,  are similar circumstances. 
That said,  we consider each case on its own facts. HSBC was entitled to reach  its own 
decision as to how it should respond to K and its complaint and, for the reasons given, I 
dont think it treated K unfairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6915047