K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc took payments out of her account towards  her 
loan when another company was already  taking  them. Also, when she asked for a copy of 
the loan agreement, this wasnt provided  quickly enough. 
She would like the bank to refund  all the duplicate payment that she made. She would also 
like the bank to reduce  the balance on the loan because of the late arrival of the loan 
agreement. 
background
Mrs S took out a personal loan with the bank. 
After struggling with repayments, the account was transferred to another  company  who set 
up repayments from Mrs Ss account to them. 
Mrs S discovered that from June  2017 to July 2018, she had been  making  two monthly  
repayments of £15 each to both the bank and the other company. She should  only have 
been making one payment of £15 to the other company. 
She asked  for a copy of the loan agreement but the bank delayed  sending this. 
Mrs S complained to the bank.
The bank wrote to her on 19 October 2018.  They accepted that there had been poor 
customer service  in sending Mrs S her loan agreement and paid her £62 compensation for 
this. 
But, they didnt  accept that they were wrong  to take the duplicate  payment of £15 per month. 
They said that they regarded these payments as additional payments to reduce her balance. 
Mrs S wasnt  happy with this decision so she came  to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He agreed that the bank could take the extra 
£15 as additional payments. He had looked  at Mrs Ss bank statements and didnt think  that 
she had suffered financially by making  the extra payments. 
Mrs S wasnt  happy with this outcome so the complaint has now come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mrs S wont be happy with my decision. I dont think  that the bank has done  
anything wrong. I will explain why. 
Mrs S says that making  the extra payment of £15 per month  was difficult  for her as she was 
struggling financially. I have looked  at her statements and I cant  see that she was struggling 
with these payments.  
Ref: DRN68652922Ive also seen the contact notes from the bank saying that the other company wouldve told 
Mrs S to cancel her standing order to the bank. Im afraid that I think that it was Mrs Ss 
responsibility to do this. Had she been checking her accounts more regularly, she wouldve 
realised that she was making the extra payment much sooner. Im sorry if this sounds harsh 
but I cant see that it was for the bank  to tell her that she was making the extra  payments. I 
think that the bank  were  entitled to decide that the payments that were  coming  in were 
additional payments to clear the loan faster. I see no reason why they should then have 
brought this up with Mrs S. 
The bank has accepted that they did delay sending a copy  of the loan agreement.  I think that 
the compensation of £62 that they paid to Mrs S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mrs S was hoping for. I hope that I have  clearly  
explained why this is my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Bank  of Scotland  plc to do anything  else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6865292