K821x#15complaint
Miss T makes a number  of complaints about Tesco Personal Finance PLC following its 
decision to increase her credit card limit.
background
Miss T says she received a letter from Tesco telling her that the credit limit on her credit card 
was being increased from £1,900 to £3,900 which she says she couldnt  afford. She says 
she called  Tesco on 28 November 2018 to reject the increase. But she says she noticed that 
Tesco had increased the limit some two days before it said it would. Miss T says she 
believes Tesco was trying to take advantage of her and that she asked for information  from 
it. In summary Miss T says the increase was irresponsible and the whole episode has 
affected her health  and caused her stress and Tescos offer of £110 compensation isnt 
enough.
Tesco accepts that it didnt handle a call particular well and didnt act upon Miss Ts request 
for information. It also accepts it didnt  apply Miss Ts request to reject the credit limit. Tesco  
has offered Miss T £110 compensation made up of £50 each for the failing to request 
information and failing  to action the credit limit rejection and £10 for the call that wasnt 
handled well. Tesco says Miss T didnt lose out financially as a result  of what happened or 
that applying the credit limit increase two days early had any real impact.
Miss T brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought  overall the compensation 
offer didnt go far enough. He thought Tesco should  pay £300  compensation  which fairly 
reflected all of the problems that had taken  place as well as the way Miss T was addressed  
in a message  from Tesco. The investigator also thought that compensation amount reflected 
the time Miss T had spent  on the phone to Tesco and that it suggested it would answer her 
complaint within  15 days.  The investigator  didnt think there was any impact on Miss Ts 
credit file.
Miss T says she would accept that compensation amount but would like Tesco  to extend its 
interest free offer.
Tesco doesnt accept  the investigators  view and says it told Miss T that it may take up to 
eight weeks to resolve her complaint but would aim to resolve within  15 days. It says it did 
give Miss T updates on her complaint and says it will not increase  the interest free period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator that the compensation offer doesnt go far enough.
There is no real dispute  here that Tesco didnt apply Miss Ts request to decline  the credit  
increase and didnt send  her the information she wanted. So Im satisfied that Miss T was 
forced to call Tesco again to find out what had taken place and why the credit limit had been 
applied before Tesco said it would be applied. I have no doubt that Miss T was caused 
distress and inconvenience by what happened  and spent some  time on the calls to Tesco.
I can see that Tesco accepts that its staff member didnt deal with part of the call 
appropriately. And I can also see from Tescos records that it sent a message to Miss T in 
which she was inappropriately addressed.
Ref: DRN65189342So Ive come to the overall view that, although  Tesco has fairly apologised for whats  
happened, the compensation offer doesnt fairly reflect the amount of mistakes here. And 
that it took some time to resolve them. I think the compensation proposed  by the investigator  
is fair and reasonable and reflects whats taken place and that this wasnt one mistake  but a 
series of mistakes.
I make  it clear  to the parties that Ive not seen  any evidence that Tesco  made a mistake  by 
offering the increase to the credit limit or that the increase was irresponsible. I also dont 
think Tesco  has breached  the contract  between the parties and in any event that issue  would 
be for a court to decide. I dont think what happened  had any affect on Miss Ts credit file or 
that Tesco made a mistake by telling Miss T it could not offer her any credit limit increases 
for a period  of time after she rejected  this one. 
I also cant fairly order that Tesco increase the length of any promotional offer that Miss T 
may have  as I dont  think that is linked to this complaint in any event. I dont think  that Tesco 
has paid Miss T the £110 it offered and so I make  clear that I intend to order  Tesco  to 
increase that amount to £300 in total.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to pay Miss T total compensation of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6518934