K820x#14complaint
Mr K (1) complains  on behalf of his father  Mr K that Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) didnt close Mr Ks account  when it should have done so. As a result the 
account has gone overdrawn.  Mr K would like Nationwide to close the account, refund  all 
charges and compensate for distress and inconvenience.
background
Mr K (1) says in January  2018 he went into a Nationwide  branch with Mr K so that Mr K 
could close his account. He explained Mr K had been having problems with a company 
taking out an un agreed amount of money via a direct debit.
Mr K (1) says a member of staff gave Mr K a paper to sign,  took his bank card and gave him 
a cheque for the full balance on the account. So they both believed  the account  to have 
been closed as per Mr Ks wishes.
Nationwide says its notes  show Mr K withdrew  £1,958.14 by cheque  in branch. But its 
records dont confirm  the account was closed at that time. An ongoing direct debit continued 
to be made  from the account until August 2018  when the last payment was made.  As a 
gesture of goodwill Nationwide refunded £63.74 of charges. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found after Mr K withdrew funds  from the 
account he continued to get statements showing  charges and the balance.  She noted that 
Nationwide had refunded the charges applied so felt it had acted fairly.
Mr K didnt accept this view. Mr K (1) made  a number of points on behalf of   Mr K to which  
our investigator responded to individually as follows:-
-Firstly Mr K (1) said he had video  evidence to confirm that a member  of staff in 
branch said he would get back to him within a week but didnt. Our investigator said 
Mr Ks complaint was about his account going  overdrawn  when believed  he had 
closed it. However  she explained that banks have  eight weeks  to respond to 
complaints so even  if Mr K had been  given  misleading information  the bank didnt 
have to respond within one week. She added that Nationwide  had also refunded 
charges as a gesture of goodwill.
-Secondly Mr K (1) didnt feel that Nationwide shouldve allowed a direct  debit to 
continue to be paid.  Our investigator  says the direct debit set up gave permission for 
those payments to be made.
-Thirdly Mr K (1) said the whole issue began as the company to which  the direct was 
paid to didnt cap the amount it took which it shouldve done so. He says his Mr K  
chose to close his account down as Nationwide said it could help him get his money  
back. Mr K (1) thinks Nationwide should do a charge  back  to reclaim the money. Our 
investigator explained that charge backs apply  to payments via credit cards  not direct  
debits as is was the case here. 
Our investigator added  that Mr K hadnt  raised  a complaint about a dispute  with Nationwide  
about direct  debits. His complaint was that his account wasnt closed when he believed  it 
shouldve been.
Ref: DRN67099262Finally Mr K (1) said Mr K couldve withdrawn money from a cash  machine had he needed to 
do so rather than by cheque. He felt the fact Nationwide kept Mr Ks card and Mr K received 
funds from his account by cheque showed  Mr K had intended to close  the account.
Mr K (1) also asked  for details of the outstanding balance owed. And for a copy  of the 
contract his father signed to show his account  could go  over drawn. Our investigator said Mr 
K would need  to get confirmation  of the exact  amount owing from Nationwide. However as a 
guide she referred to the sum of £351.40 as stated  in one of Nationwides  response letters to 
Mr K.
As Mr K still wasnt happy he asked  for an Ombudsmans view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K feels  strongly about this and I do understand why. So I appreciate he is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same view as our investigator.
I dont think there is any dispute that in a branch meeting  in January 2018 Mr K received a 
cheque for the full balance of his account - £1,958.14. Ive seen a copy of the cheque  and a 
copy of Mr Ks account statement showing this withdrawal. 
Unfortunately Nationwide has spoken to the member of staff concerned but too much time 
has passed for a full recall of events. However although Nationwide  has found a copy  of the 
cheque and withdrawal  form it has no records to show the account  was closed at that point. 
I accept Mr K (1)s view that withdrawing all of the funds might indicate  Mr K intended to 
close the account. But that isnt necessarily so.  Mr K (1) has also said that Nationwide took 
Mr Ks bank  card. I would agree  that might indicate  the account  was closed. But we have 
checked with Nationwide  who say it didnt take Mr Ks card. Theres  also no paperwork  that 
either side has been able to give me to show that the account  was closed.  So on that basis  I 
dont think I can reasonably conclude that Mr K did close his account that day in branch.
After Mr K believed his account to be closed Nationwide continued to send  him bank 
statements. From these  he wouldve  known  his account wasnt  closed, that there was an 
ongoing direct  debit payment coming out of his account, and bank charges. Mr K (1) says his 
father didnt  get these.  I dont know why that would be. Ive seen copies  of the statements 
and they were correctly  addressed. So I do believe Nationwide sent them. And I dont 
believe it can be held responsible if Mr K didnt get them.
Mr K (1) has told us there was a particular problem direct debit going from his account.  He 
says the amount taken each month shouldve been  capped at a fixed sum but wasnt. He 
says this is why Mr K he closed this account. 
Ive no reason to dispute that Mr K had a problem with a direct debit.  However even if Mr K 
had closed his account he  would still have  had to sort out ending his contract   with  the 
company to whom  he was paying the direct debit to. That was Mr Ks responsibility not 
Nationwides  
Ref: DRN67099263Mr K (1) has given  us evidence of various family  bank accounts to show that direct debits 
were transferred over from the account  Mr K believed he closed. But I havent found any 
evidence that the particular direct  debit in question transferred over.  So I dont feel that, in 
itself,  is proof that Mr K believed his Nationwide account to be closed.
Finally the direct debit  in question continued to be paid until August 2018 when the last 
payment was made. As only Mr K couldve cancelled this payment  he must have known he 
was making the payment. And must  have  arranged to cancel it. 
Mr K (1) asked  for a copy of the contract  Mr K signed to show  Mr Ks account  could  go 
overdrawn. We havent been able to get that from Nationwide. However as Nationwide  has 
refunded all the charges that accrued on the account I dont feel I need  to pursue that any 
further as Nationwide has made  good any losses Mr K incurred
The only outstanding payment on Mr Ks account now is the total amount from the one direct 
debit that continued to be paid. As I havent  found Nationwide  has done anything wrong I 
dont think I can reasonably expect it to waive  this. Or to pay compensation as Mr K would 
like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6709926