K820x#14The complaint
Mr V complains about a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr V took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn  to finance 
the purchase of a used car. The car was eight years  old, had travelled  more than 76,500  
miles and cost just under  £17,000.
Shortly afterwards Mr V reported a number  of faults to the dealer who supplied the car. He 
said that there was no cigarette lighter,  and no remote  control  for the DVD player, the 
electric front seat wasnt  working, and the front passenger door and back passenger  side 
doors were difficult to open. He said that the back light and brake light werent  working, and 
when he was driving the car it went into limp mode and the engine management system light 
came on, as well as the ignition control  system light. He also said the battery died. He said 
he took the car back to the dealer to have the issues fixed. He said the lights  were  fixed but 
when he got the car back the battery died, and the engine management system light came  
back on after he managed  to get it started.
In December 2017 his complaint was passed  to Moneybarn by the dealer. The dealer told 
Moneybarn the faults had been fixed. But Mr V said there were  still issues:  hed not received 
the DVD  remote,  the rear door was too stiff for partner  or children to open, there was no 
cigarette lighter,  the driver seat would not go up or down, the brake light had failed again 
despite the bulb being replaced. And he said the battery was faulty as the car often struggled 
to start.
At this point Mr V told Moneybarn he was losing faith in the car.
Moneybarn said that the faults with the car had been  fixed.  This included the repair  to the 
diesel particulate  filter,  the issue that caused  the car to go into limp mode. They  issued a 
final response letter in February 2018.  They said the remaining  issues  were either cosmetic 
in nature, or the supplying  dealership had agreed  to look at them  again  if Mr V arranged  for 
the vehicle to be inspected. They said Mr V didnt take the car back  to the dealer for further 
inspection so they closed the complaint.
In April 2018 Mr V contacted Moneybarn. He said the dealer wouldnt look at the car. He 
called Moneybarn again in May 2018  to report further issues.  He said the issues had been 
there for eight months and hed be able to provide evidence.
In June 2018 Moneybarn rejected his complaint. They said the outstanding issues such as 
the battery, and the rear passenger door,  were considered to fall under wear and tear 
Items, and the others such as the missing cigarette lighter and wires hanging down from the 
rear-view mirror were  cosmetic matters.
One of our investigators  looked into his complaint. She felt that because of the age and 
mileage of the car the reported issues would be considered  to be wear  and tear. And 
because the dealer who supplied the car was willing to investigate  the issue  with the front 
seat, she couldnt say that Moneybarn have made an error.
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN69323312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn supplied Mr V with the car under the conditional sale agreement they had with 
him. Theres a term implied in the agreement that the car would be of satisfactory  quality. 
What is satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory  
given the price, description and other  relevant circumstances. In this case  this would include 
things such as the age and mileage  of the car.
Mr Vs car was eight  years old and had travelled more than 76,000 miles when he got it. So, 
a reasonable person might expect  to have to repair  or replace some parts of the car over 
time.
He first reported faults within  days of getting the car. The relevant law, The Consumer Rights  
Act 2015,  gives him the right (amongst other  things)  to ask for a repair  or a replacement. He 
returned the car to the dealer and it carried  out the repair. It replaced the diesel particulate 
filter and theres  no evidence that this repair didnt  fix the problem. So Im satisfied that the 
repair worked.
But Mr V was unhappy with other issues. These  included the DVD remote, the rear door, the  
cigarette lighter,  the driver seat,  and the brake light. And he said the battery  was faulty as 
the car often struggled to start.
The test I apply is whether or not the car they supplied to Mr V was of satisfactory  quality. 
Ive explained  above how this would  include  the age and mileage of the car. Moneybarn said 
these issues were  all cosmetic  or were  caused by wear and tear. And our investigator 
agreed that was a fair conclusion for them to reach.
So I need to consider whether or not I agree  the issues  hes continued to report  meant  the 
car wasnt of a satisfactory quality. And Ive reached  the same conclusion  as our investigator  
for the same reasons.
Im satisfied the issues Mr V identified  were things that you could expect  to go wrong in a car 
that was more than eight  years old. Its reasonable to expect a battery  to need replacing 
after this time, and more  than 76,000  miles. And because of this, its reasonable for 
Moneybarn to say that the battery  should  be considered as a wear  and tear issue rather than 
a fault. And all of the other issues  he raised  are also items  Id expect to have to repair or 
replace on a car of this age.
Im also satisfied that Moneybarn took steps to arrange for a further inspection of the vehicle. 
Mr V had his own reasons  for not going back to the garage that supplied  the car, but that 
doesnt mean that Moneybarn has done anything wrong. They invited  him to provide 
evidence. I think in the absence of any further information it was reasonable for them  to 
conclude the issues were caused  by wear and tear
I know that Mr V is disappointed because he paid a lot of money for a premium car. But parts  
in all cars, including premium models, are subject to wear and tear, and for the reasons Ive 
given, Im satisfied that the car supplied to Mr V by Moneybarn  was of a satisfactory  quality.
Hes also believes  that Moneybarn delayed its response to him, and this delay meant he was 
out of time to reject the car. Ive explained above  that the legislation  allowed him to reject the 
Ref: DRN69323313car or to ask for a repair when he reported the initial fault. He asked the dealer to repair,  and 
it supplied him with a car whilst it did so. And because Im satisfied the car was of a 
satisfactory quality after the repair, I cant say that he was denied the opportunity to reject 
the car.
I know this has been frustrating for Mr V. He bought a car that he says he is unable  to use. 
But Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen,  that it was reasonable for Moneybarn to 
conclude that the outstanding issues were caused by wear and tear 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6932331