K820x#14complaint
Mrs A is the current, sole director  of A, a limited company. Shes  asked the company 
secretary (Mr A) to bring a complaint against  Vitality Health Limited about an administrative 
issue relating to the companys healthcare plan.
background
The companys healthcare  plan includes a Personal Health Fund  (PHF) benefit. This is a pot 
of money which  each plan member  can use to pay for certain  services  and treatments which  
arent covered under the main part of the policy. The amount of money in the pot can change  
depending on the plan members Vitality  status, up to a maximum amount. And any money 
not used in a particular  year is carried forward to the next year.
After renewal in 2015, Mr A realised the PHF balances  werent  right. He contacted Vitality 
and the problem was corrected. Vitality  also sent a cheque for £50 by way of compensation 
for the poor service it had provided. 
Similar issues arose after renewal in 2016  and 2017, which meant Mr A had to contact 
Vitality again to get things put right. In 2017  it offered a further £75 compensation, but Mr A 
said that wasnt enough, given the time hed spent  getting a recurring  problem fixed and 
because Vitality hadnt complied with his request for a breakdown showing whatd happened 
with each plan members pot. And he asked us to look into the complaint.
Our investigator said Vitality shouldve provided a breakdown when it was first requested. 
She asked  for this and Vitality confirmed  there  was still a discrepancy in the balance 
showing on the two remaining  plan members pots,  which it couldnt correct  at that time. Our 
investigator said the compensation thatd been  offered was sufficient and we couldnt force 
Vitality to fix a problem when it hadnt yet worked out how to do so.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators explanation, so the complaint has come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality should have ensured  that the balance in each of the PHF pots was correct at all 
times. And I have difficulty understanding, given the relatively simple calculations  its shown 
to be involved,  why this proved so difficult each  year and/or why there  was still a discrepancy 
when the matter was referred to this service.  Having said that, I do understand that systems  
problem can take some time to put right. And I cant fine or punish a business for failing to do 
so in a more timely manner. What I can consider is whether compensation should be paid 
relative to the impact  the failure has caused.
With that in mind, it looks like Vitality managed, on the whole, to correct things promptly  each 
year. I say that knowing there were  still some slight discrepancies when the complaint was 
referred to us  Mr As pot was short  by £31.07  and Mrs As had £50 too much. But I havent 
seen anything which shows  any of the historic or current plan members have been unable  to 
use the benefit when they wanted  to because  of the problem with their individual PHF pot 
balances. And I have some difficulty, given the correspondence Ive seen between  the 
Ref: DRN68814602parties, accepting that it has taken  a total of three  days work on Mr As part to sort things out 
since the problem  began  in 2015.
Vitality has apologised  for the problem and any inconvenience thats been caused.  It also 
paid £50 compensation in 2015  and has offered a further £75. And, after I spoke with Vitality  
recently, it said the problem with the PHF balances re-setting to zero at renewal has now be 
fixed and didnt recur  when the plan renewed  this year.  Having said that, Mr As pot is still 
£31.07 short and Mrs As has £50 too much. But Vitality has now confirmed it will allow 
Mrs A to use the extra £50 and it will send Mr A cheque  for £31.07.
As the investigator  has explained, this complaint was brought on behalf  of the company. It 
was Mr A who had to spend time getting  in touch with Vitality  to ensure things were put right. 
But I think its likely he did so in his capacity  as company secretary.  And I think  its possible 
part of his everyday role is to sort out anything relating  to the companys healthcare  plan  
that seems likely given he was the one who contacted Vitality each year. And any 
compensation I award must be relative to the time spent and inconvenience caused  to the 
company, not by Mr A personally. 
Overall, given whats gone on, I consider  £125 to be sufficient compensation. I understand 
£50 has already been paid which leaves £75 still to be paid to the company.
my final decision
My final decision is that Vitality Health Limited should pay a further £75 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A (as the 
director of A) to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6881460