K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  that Millennium  Insurance  Company Limited (MIC) wont meet a claim she
made on her home insurance after a burglary.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. A copy of this is 
attached and forms part of this decision. In summary  I said I was minded  to uphold Miss As 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A says she agrees with my provisional  decision.
MIC initially  asked for more information than was in the provisional  decision. It was asking 
for additional legal precedents to support my arguments. We confirmed the legal basis  was 
outlined in the provisional decision, and invited MIC to give us any additional arguments or 
evidence. 
MIC has now confirmed  it accepts the conclusions in my provisional decision.
With no new information to consider  I see no reason to change  my provisional  conclusions.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order MIC Insurance  Company Limited to:
1. Reconsider Miss As claim subject to any other terms and conditions in her policy.
2. Pay £200 compensation for the way its handled the claim and complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65004332Copy of provisional  decision issued December  2018
complaint
Miss A complains  that Millennium Insurance Company Limited (MIC) wont meet a claim she
made on her home insurance after a burglary.
background
Miss A was burgled in early  2017.  Her partner reported the crime to the police and Miss A
then submitted a claim to MIC via MICs  administrator. The claim was handled on MICs
behalf by a company that assesses losses when  claims are made, and in this instance,
responded on the insurers behalf. However,  MIC as the insurer remains responsible for any
decisions made  about  the claim   so Im going to refer to it throughout  the rest of this
decision.
MIC said it wouldnt meet Miss As claim. It said the policy Miss A held required that both
forcible and violent means had been used to break into the house before it would meet  a
claim. It said there was insufficient evidence to prove  this.
Miss A complained,  saying  the police concluded the thief probably got into the house by
using a wire of some  sort to lever the handle  open. And she pointed out some scratches on
the door which she said werent  there previously, as extra evidence that the thief had tried to
force the door. MIC didnt  change  its mind, and Miss A brought  her complaint  to us.
Our investigator explained  to Miss A how the courts have assessed the meaning of forcible
and violent. She said, using these legal precedents as a guideline, she hadnt seen sufficient
evidence that violence  had been used  to gain entry.
Miss A remains unhappy with this, so Ive been  asked  to decide the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss As policy contains various terms and conditions. It also lists situations where 
although it might accept  theres a valid claim   it wont meet  that claim. These are commonly
called exclusions.
Miss As policy says that MIC wont meet a claim for burglary unless both forcible and violent
entry has been made. So I think it fair for MIC to assess whether both those conditions  have
been met before  agreeing  to meet  Miss As claim. However, to rely on this exclusion,  its for
MIC to show the exclusion  applies, not for Miss A to prove it doesnt.
At the moment Im not persuaded MIC has shown  it can rely on the exclusion. I say that
because its representative said in a letter to Miss A that the most probable  way the thief got
into the house  was by using  a wire through the letter box to pull the inner handle  and open
the door. I understand that was also a suggestion made by the police, although  I havent
seen the relevant report. Miss A hasnt been able to get a copy  of the police report, and I
cant see that MIC made  any attempt  to get a copy.
I accept that our investigator gave  some  examples of interpretations of force and violence
when she gave Miss A and MIC her opinion about the complaint. However, Ive also looked
again at the case law (Dino Services Ltd) for how violent  might be interpreted. In the
judgement of that case, His Lordship  gave obvious examples of violence, such as breaking
down a door or forcing open a window. However,  he also cited an earlier Court of Appeal
Ref: DRN65004333decision on the same issue  Calf v Sun Insurance Office [1920] 2 KB 366  and indicated
his approval  of the following  passages:
that by the words  actual forcible and violent  entry it was intended  to mean  an entry
effected by the exercise of force in a manner  that was not customary in order to overcome
the resistance of the usual fastenings and protections in the premises.
If a person turns  a key he uses  force  but not violence. If he uses a skeleton key, he uses
force but not violence. If, on the other hand, instead of using a key he uses  a picklock, or
some other  instrument, or a piece of wire, by which as a lever he forces  back  the lock, it
appears to me that he uses  force  and violence
So, applying this to Miss As case, it seems to me that entry to the house  by means  of a wire
or some other instrument through the letterbox, constitutes entry  by forcible  and violent
means even  if it leaves  no physical damage to the door or lock. I dont think anyone would
think using a wire in this way was a customary way to open a door that would  in the normal
course of events  need a key to unlock it from the outside. And I think  that also fits with this
services remit to interpret  the evidence  provided in a fair and reasonable  manner.
It follows therefore that I dont  think MIC has made a strong enough  argument to support it
relying on this exclusion.  So Im intending to order it to reconsider Miss As claim, subject to
any other terms or conditions that might apply.
I also think  Millennium has caused Miss A some trouble  whilst shes been making  this claim.
I can see Millennium didnt send her a final response to her complaint which told her about
her right to bring her complaint to us. Fortunately that didnt stop Miss A from asking  us to
look at her complaint,  but its an error  on Millenniums part. And Miss As also shown us
evidence that Millennium (or its representative)  has sent letters for someone else to her
address. Taking into account  these errors  and the trouble Miss As been put to, Im intending
to order  Millennium to pay Miss A £200 compensation for this.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and order Millennium  Insurance Company Limited to:
1. Reconsider Miss As claim subject to any other terms and conditions in her policy.
2. Pay £200 compensation for the way its handled  the claim and complaint.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6500433