K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Ms W bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a credit card in store. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint  because:
 Ms W signed  the application form to indicate she wanted  PPI separately to where  she 
signed for the credit card. So I think FICL  made Ms W aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I appreciate  she doesnt remember 
this, but thats understandable  given it was 25 years ago. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms W so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ms W doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. 
 While  she had some  sick and redundancy pay through her work, the PPI wouldve paid 
15% of her outstanding balance until she returned  to work or the outstanding balance 
had been paid off. This wouldve protected any sick or redundancy pay so she could 
use it for something  else. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ws comments. But these points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019..
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6577860