K823xcomplaint
Miss G complains  about the way Santander UK Plc have treated her in relation to her 
interest only mortgage. She says her requests to convert some or all of the mortgage to 
repayment were unfairly declined. She also says Santander wouldnt offer her lower interest 
rates, so shes paid more  interest than she needed  to.
background 
Miss G took out an interest only mortgage  with Santander in 2008 via a broker. 
The mortgage was initially on a fixed interest rate until 2010, after which  the mortgage 
remained on Santanders standard variable  rate (SVR). The mortgage term ended in 2018, 
and was redeemed  when Miss G sold her property in 2020.
Miss G says she contacted Santander over the years to ask about options  available to her 
for switching  her mortgage  to repayment  and taking out a new rate. She says Santander 
wouldnt allow her to switch any of her mortgage to repayment, or offer her a new deal. 
Santander says that in 2014 they discussed  the interest rate on Miss Gs mortgage and 
made her aware of the rates that were available at the time, but no application was made.  
In 2016 a discussion was had about  the possibility  of switching  some  of Miss Gs mortgage 
over to repayment, but as this was deemed unaffordable due to Santanders  criteria,  a full 
application wasnt submitted. Santander told Miss G to contact them  again  when  her 
mortgage term was closer to expiry.
Miss G complained at the time about what happened in 2016. Following that, Santander 
arranged for Miss G to have another discussion with an advisor to see if there  was more 
they could do to help. So in 2018  Santander  carried out another review of Miss Gs 
circumstances, but again  Santander  said that switching the mortgage to repayment was 
unaffordable. Santander had also instructed a field agent to visit Miss Gs property in 2018. 
This visit never  took place, but Miss G was charged  a fee of £18 at the time.
Miss G asked  our service  to look into her complaints. Santander didnt give consent  for us to 
consider all of Miss Gs complaints, and the matter of what we could consider was referred 
to an ombudsman to decide. The ombudsman decided we could consider the following parts 
of Miss Gs complaint:
The interest rate charged to Miss Gs mortgage   but only from 1 October 2012
onwards;
Whether Santander has acted fairly in dealing with the end of the interest only
mortgage, including the discussions in 2016 and since, and including the field agent
and the fee added to the mortgage balance;
Whether Santander should take action now to assist  Miss G in paying back her
mortgage.
Our investigator looked into the above complaint  points and found overall that Santander 
could have handled things better. She said that whilst  she didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly in regards to the interest rate theyd  charged,  they should  have done more to help 
Miss G when  shed contacted them  from 2016 onwards. She said she couldnt know what 
the possible result of any further  enquiries or applications could have been at the time, and 
as Miss G had now redeemed the mortgage that part of the matter  is now resolved. 
Ref: DRN60058962However, she did recommend Santander  pay Miss G £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the way they handled  things from 2016  onwards.
Santander accepted the investigators view but Miss G didnt. In summary,  she said that 
when she did discuss interest rate options with Santander, they wouldnt let her apply  for any 
rates unless she switched  her mortgage  to repayment. She said had her request  to switch 
earlier been approved, she would still be living in her family home,  and shes calculated that 
shes due over £54,000 in redress due to Santanders actions. This includes £5,000  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
The complaint has now been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The interest rate
Miss G is unhappy that her mortgage has remained on the SVR since  2010. She said shes 
been paying a lot more  than other people she knows,  and if shed  been  given a lower rate, 
she could have paid off more of the capital over the years. Miss G always  managed  to make 
the contractual monthly payments (CMP) to the mortgage, but she says she built up a lot of 
unsecured debt as a result.
Miss Gs mortgage offer states  that a fixed interest  rate of 5.89% would apply  to the 
mortgage until 3 June 2010.  After  that date, interest would be charged  at the banks SVR for 
the remaining  term, which was 7.34%  at the time. There  was nothing in the mortgage  offer 
that guaranteed Miss G would  be entitled  to lower interest rates for the remaining term.
However, after the fixed rate ended Miss G was able to apply for interest rate products if she 
chose. Santanders  records show that they wrote to her in 2010 when her product ended  to 
let her know what her new interest  rate and therefore CMP would be. Ive also seen the 
information they included in Miss Gs annual mortgage statements about  the interest rate 
and the fact that other rates may be available. Im unable to consider what  happened  in 2010 
under the scope of this complaint, but I have looked  at what happened  from October  2012  
onwards.
At that time,  there was no requirement for lenders to pro-actively  contact borrowers about 
other interest rates that may have been available on their mortgage.  Santander  provided  
information to Miss G about  the rate she was paying, and it was up to her if she wanted to 
apply for a lower  interest rate with them. In practice some borrowers prefer to stay on the 
SVR due to the flexibility  it offers, but others  will shop  around to try and find the best deal 
available. 
Ive looked at the contact records for the mortgage  and theres no record of any 
conversations taking place after October  2012 until May 2014. Ive listened to a recording of 
a call in May 2014. Miss G was calling to find out what interest  rate deals were available with 
Santander. The adviser went through the different  rates  that they were offering at the time, 
but Miss G said they werent very competitive,  and shed  found cheaper deals elsewhere. So 
she didnt proceed  with an application.  During this call Santander  did not tell Miss G that she 
needed to switch her mortgage to repayment  in order  to take out a new rate.
Ref: DRN60058963Whilst fixed rate products  do often tend to be cheaper than a lenders SVR, its ultimately up 
to the lender as to where they want to price their products on the market.  Santander  did 
have rates available to Miss G if she wanted to apply for them, but it seems Miss G chose 
not to. So, Im not satisfied Santander were  acting unfairly by charging the SVR on her 
mortgage. Whilst Miss Gs mortgage  was on the SVR, it wasnt  subject to any early 
repayment charges  if shed wanted  to redeem the mortgage early to take out a cheaper  deal 
with a new lender.  And Santanders SVR was not out of line with those charged by similar 
lenders in the market at the time.  
Both parties  agree there was no further contact  about the mortgage after that until 2016, 
when a review of both the repayment type and interest rate took place. Ive listened to a 
recording of this call, and whilst it was largely  about  switching some  of the mortgage to 
repayment, Miss G did also make it clear she wanted to discuss new deals. After Santander 
explained that they wouldnt  be able to switch any of the mortgage over to repayment 
because of their eligibility criteria, the call ended and nothing  further about  the interest rates 
was discussed.
Santanders adviser was aware that Miss G wanted  a lower interest rate product, so I think 
this still should  have been discussed during the call in 2016,  despite the switch to repayment  
not going ahead.  Ive looked  at what rates would have  been  available  to Miss G at that time,  
and the shortest  period that Santander offered was a two-year rate (both  fixed and variable). 
As Miss G had less than two years left on her mortgage term, there wasnt  a product 
available that was suitable for her as the mortgage  stood  at that point. So even if the rates  
were discussed further, Im not persuaded it would have led to a different outcome.
Whilst there wasnt anything available for Miss G as her mortgage was at the time,  Ill now 
go on to consider whether Santander  should  have made any changes to the term or 
repayment type as a result of that conversation.
But overall, considering the evidence, Im not satisfied Miss G has overpaid interest on her 
mortgage as a result of Santander applying the SVR to her mortgage unfairly.
Request to change repayment  type
During the call in 2016, discussions  were  had about switching Miss Gs mortgage  to 
repayment, as she didnt have a repayment  vehicle in place to redeem her interest only 
mortgage at the end of the term in 2018. Miss G was happy to do that, but Santander found 
that switching  the full mortgage balance to repayment and extending the term to Miss Gs 
planned retirement age was not affordable for her based on her income  at the time. So 
Santander looked at whether she could afford to switch only part of the mortgage  to 
repayment, keeping  some on interest only, and extending the term. 
Having done this, Santander  found  an option  that Miss G was happy  with and that she was 
comfortable she could  afford, which included taking out a new interest rate. But when the 
Santander adviser tried to process this through to application, she explained Miss G wasnt  
eligible to make the change as she didnt  meet the minimum salary limit for interest only 
borrowing. 
Considering the circumstances,  I think  Santander  should have acted differently here.  Firstly, 
there are rules  set by the regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), that allow for 
lenders to set aside  the outcomes of strict  affordability assessments for some existing 
Ref: DRN60058964mortgage borrowers if its in their best interests to do so. In Miss Gs particular  situation,  this 
would have meant that Santander could have set aside the outcome of an affordability 
assessment when looking to switch some  of the mortgage to repayment, had the change 
been in Miss Gs best interests. But as the adviser told Miss G that she didnt meet  the 
eligibility criteria, she never  submitted an application  and a full affordability  assessment 
wasnt completed. 
Whilst I appreciate the reasons behind Santander  having eligibility criteria for who they will 
lend to, as they need to ensure theyre meeting their obligations to lend responsibly, Miss G 
was not a new customer to the bank. This was not an application to take out a brand new 
interest only mortgage. It was a request  to change the interest  only mortgage Santander had 
already lent to Miss G, by reducing  the part of it on interest only terms. As a result, I think 
Santander should have taken Miss Gs specific circumstances into account and allowed a 
full application  to be submitted and assessed.  
As this didnt  happen, theres no way of knowing what  the outcome  of that application  may 
have been. Whilst  Miss G had demonstrated  she could have afforded the CMP whilst it was 
on the lower rate, Santander also would have  had to consider  whether the mortgage  would 
have been affordable for her over the entire proposed term, taking  into account potential  
future changes in interest rates,  as well as any other  credit commitments Miss G had at the 
time. 
I cant ask Santander  to conduct  that assessment now,  as Miss G has already redeemed  the 
mortgage and moved  elsewhere. And without  having seen the outcome of that assessment, I 
dont think it can reasonably be determined that even if the mortgage was deemed  
unaffordable by Santander, it would have been  in Miss Gs best interests to commit her to 
another 18 year mortgage that she may not have been able to afford.
Miss G has questioned how the mortgage could be deemed unaffordable for her when the 
figure she was quoted  during the call for her new monthly payments was lower  than what  
she was already paying. And I can appreciate why she might question  that. But this was not 
a short  extension  Miss G would have been  committing herself to another  18 years of 
mortgage repayments. Its important for lenders to think about the sustainability of the 
mortgage for the borrower over the entire term. 
Miss Gs initial monthly payments were going  to be lower than she was currently paying,  but 
that was on a quote which included  a three  year fixed interest rate. And that monthly  
payment also went very close to what Miss G said was the maximum shed be comfortable  
to pay on her mortgage payments each month.  So in the event that interest rates  rose when 
her fixed  rate ended, or her circumstances changed, this could  have affected  her ability  to 
afford the monthly  payments.  
As Ive explained, that long term full assessment never took place, but just because Miss G 
could have afforded the initial payments on the fixed deal, doesnt necessarily mean the 
overall mortgage would have been affordable for her. And, as it was found when a full 
assessment was carried out later in 2018,  the change to the mortgage was unaffordable.
So in summary,  I think Santander  should  have allowed Miss G to submit an application  to 
extend the mortgage term and switch some of the mortgage to repayment. But based  on 
everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded having  done  so would have resulted in a different 
outcome at the time.
Ref: DRN60058965After this conversation, Miss G complained, and as a result  of that complaint Santander 
offered to have another conversation with her about  potential options she may have. 
In this call in February 2018, Santander made Miss G aware there were three options 
available to her at the end of the term. She could sell her home to redeem the mortgage, she 
could apply for a lifetime  mortgage (though not with Santander), or switch  some or all of the 
mortgage to repayment. As Miss Gs preference was to keep her home, and switch as much 
of the mortgage  as possible to repayment,  Santander took information about Miss Gs 
circumstances to check whether this would be affordable for her. But having  done so, the 
assessment still didnt pass Santanders  affordability  assessment.  And Miss G explained she 
would look at re-mortgaging elsewhere  in order to redeem  the mortgage.  
Unfortunately, shortly after this Miss G called back to explain shed had surgery for a serious 
illness and was waiting  to see if shed need  further  treatment. She was planning to sell the 
property but wasnt  in a position to do so at the time due to her health.  Although  the 
mortgage term had expired  by that point,  Santander agreed to put a hold on the account to 
allow Miss G to recover, which  Im satisfied was fair.
However, a few months later Santander  sent Miss G a letter informing her a field agent visit 
would take place. The visit didnt actually happen,  and it seems the letter  was sent in error 
due to internal  processes, but Miss G was still charged a fee of £18. Santander have since  
refunded the fee, but I still think receiving  that letter after shed told Santander about her ill 
health would  have caused Miss G some unnecessary distress and inconvenience.  So Im not 
persuaded Santanders refund of the fee does enough to put that right.
Conclusion
Overall Miss G had an interest only mortgage that was due to be repaid in 2018.  Whilst I 
understand shes told us that she always wanted  a longer term, this was the mortgage  
Santander offered  to lend her, and that she ultimately  agreed  to. So that outstanding  
balance did need  to be repaid. 
Miss G feels  that Santander are responsible  for the fact shes lost her family home. I 
understand why Miss Gs upset that she had to sell her home and move to a new property. 
But based  on the information  Ive seen, Miss G wasnt in a position to be able to switch the 
mortgage to repayment. Because of this, Santander allowed her some  time to consider her 
options  and Miss G ultimately decided to sell her home. Whilst Ive identified  Santander 
could have handled some  things better here, Im not persuaded theyre  responsible for the 
position Miss G ultimately found herself in, as she claims.
Having considered the service Santander  provided  Miss G in 2016, and also during  2018 
when they were aware she was going through a very difficult  time,  Im satisfied Santander 
caused Miss G some  unnecessary distress and inconvenience.  I think  the £500 award 
recommended by the investigator is a reasonable amount  in all the circumstances.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint in part and 
instruct Santander UK Plc to pay Miss G £500  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
Ref: DRN60058966Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6005896