K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Caxton FX Ltd didnt tell him it had migrated to a new system in 2012  
and hasnt transferred  funds he had already paid on to his account.  
Background
Mr W opened an account with Caxton FX in July 2010. Mr W has forwarded email 
confirmations from Caxton FX showing that between August 2010  and January 2011 he 
regularly transferred (loaded) funds into his account. 
On 11 December 2012 Caxton FX moved  Mr Ws account onto a new system. Caxtons 
records show Mr W had £0 available when the systems changed. Caxton FX says that 
before the new system was put in place it contacted all of its customers  by email. 
On 27 December 2018 Mr W contacted Caxton FX as he couldnt log into his online account.  
Over the following weeks Caxton FX investigated Mr Ws account.  Caxton FX said that, due 
to the passage of time, it doesnt  have  account  information prior to the system migration in 
December 2012.  As a result, it cant  provide Mr W an account history showing what  
happened to his funds. 
Mr W referred his complaint about  Caxton FX to our service  and it was passed to an 
investigator. They didnt uphold the complaint and Mr W asked to appeal so his case has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Caxton FX says that it migrated accounts from an old system that used Mastercard to a new 
system that used VISA over the course of 2011  and 2012. Caxton FX says it emailed all 
account holders  about the changes before  they took effect. In addition,  Caxton FX says that 
any credit  balance held on the account  would have been transferred to the new system.  
Caxton FX also says that it only retained personal  information, like account statements, for a 
limited time due to data protection rules. As a result, when  Mr W contacted  Caxton FX about 
his account on 27 December 2018, there was no account history available  to show what  had 
happened to the funds  that hed previously paid into his account. I appreciate  Mr Ws 
concerns. But businesses dont retain information indefinitely. Had Mr W used his account  in 
the last six years, Id have expected Caxton FX to be able to provide statements or an 
account history. But as he hasnt, Im satisfied Caxton no longer has a record  of how the 
funds held in the account were spent. 
The only record available comes from 11 December 2012 and is from Caxton FXs systems. 
The systems records show the balance available when the account migrated to the new 
VISA system was £0. Caxton FX says any money  Mr W held on the old system would have 
been transferred  to the new account, and Im satisfied thats the case. I think Mr Ws Caxton 
FX account had a balance of £0 on 11 December  2012. 
After December 2012, theres nothing to show Mr W tried to use his Caxton FX account. 
Ref: DRN61109072Mr W has provided emails  as evidence to show he paid around  £8,000  into his account 
between August 2010 and January 2012. But there is no evidence to show he transferred 
anything to Caxton  FX after January  2012,  before the system  migration  at the end of the 
year. 
Where information is disputed or incomplete  Ill base my decision on the balance  of 
probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred having taken all of the 
evidence and information available into account. In this case, I dont doubt that Mr W paid 
funds into his Caxton  FX account. But given there was a £0 balance  on 11 December 2012, I 
think its more likely  than not that he spent the funds available before that date. 
Mr W says he didnt receive  Caxton FXs email before it changed systems. But Caxton  FX 
has confirmed that email notification of its intention to switch systems  was sent to all of its 
customers. On balance, Im satisfied  Caxton FX did contact Mr W to let him know  it was 
migrating systems prior to 11 December 2012.  
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W but I havent  found  that Caxton FX has kept the money he 
paid into his account. As Ive said above,  on balance, Im satisfied the funds Mr W loaded 
onto his account were  most likely spent before 11 December  2012. As I havent found 
Caxton FX has unfairly  kept Mr Ws money, Im not upholding this complaint or telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6110907