K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them two payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland in December 1992. Alongside it, 
they took out PPI. The policy cost £28 per month  and covered them  for £400 per month for 
up to 12 months per successful claim, for accident, sickness and unemployment. The benefit 
was split between  them 70% to 30% in Mr Ms favour.
Mr and Mrs M later bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2002 when they 
were taking out further borrowing. The PPI part of the policy cost £44.27 per month for 
£565.10 of cover. They were both equally covered under this policy.  The policy wouldve 
covered them for up to 24 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed,  so their complaint was 
passed to me. They said this service had already found they were mis-sold the endowment  
mortgages these  PPI policies were sold with. They said they believed  the advisers  were  
acting in their best interests when recommending the policies to them.  But, they now know  
the advisers were  acting  in their own interests.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have to base my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other  
words, on what  I consider is most likely  given  the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
1992 sale
Bank of Scotland hasnt got all the paperwork from the sale.  But this isnt surprising as it was 
so long ago. Banks often  only keep records for six years.  Based on the limited information 
still available, and what we know about Bank of Scotlands sales processes around this time 
from dealing with other cases, I dont have enough to fairly conclude  that Mr and Mrs M 
werent told PPI was optional. I think it more  likely  that they were told they didnt have to 
have PPI, and chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN60335292Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to make sure it was 
suitable. Overall, I think the PPI was suitable, based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time.  I say this because:
They were eligible to take out the policy.
Mr M said he was entitled to at least 3 months  worth of sick pay and redundancy 
pay. Mrs M said she wouldve got six months  worth of pay at full pay and six months 
at half. She said her public sector employer didnt make people  redundant.  However,  
the PPI wouldve paid out on top of their work  benefits for up to 12 months  per 
successful claim.  So, I still think the PPI couldve  been useful  to them,  particularly as 
it was safeguarding their home.
They said they had some savings and their parents wouldve helped  out with their 
repayments. PPI wouldve  allowed them  to use their savings  to meet  their other  living 
expenses if one of them  wasnt working.  I accept their family may have  wanted  to 
help, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time comes.  So, I 
havent placed much reliance on this. 
The policy appeared affordable and the monthly premium couldve been  cancelled at 
any time without them  losing out financially.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Mrs M all the information they needed 
before they decided  to buy PPI. But, as Ive said above, it appears  to have been affordable. I 
also dont know when  Bank of Scotland first pointed out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But as neither Mr or Mrs M were  affected  by any of the main  limitations  or exclusions 
in the policy,  I dont think having  better information  about these things wouldve changed 
their decision  to buy it.
So, I cant see that this policy  was mis-sold.
2002 sale
Bank of Scotland hasnt got all the paperwork from this sale.  Again, this isnt surprising as it 
was so long ago. 
Based on what we know about  the banks sales process at the time, I think  its most likely Mr 
and Mrs M wouldve completed  a TMPP application form selecting the elements of the cover 
they wanted, after discussion with the bank. Based on what theyve said, I think  Mr and Mrs 
M wouldve  understood  they didnt have to have PPI, but chose to take it, having been 
advised to do so.
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances were  largely the same in 2002  as they were in 1992.  TMPP 
wouldve covered  them for 24 months per successful claim, so for considerably longer than 
their work benefits wouldve covered them for. So, for the reasons given above in relation to 
the 1992 policy, I think the 2002 policy was suitable for them. I cant see that being given 
more information  about the main benefits and costs wouldve made  them take a different 
decision and not take out the policy. I cant see that Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of 
what Bank of Scotland may have done  wrong.
Ref: DRN60335293my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6033529