K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy Standard  Life Assurance Limited  has increased the fund management 
charges in relation to his personal pension plan without telling him.
Mr A is represented by an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA)  B in bringing  this complaint. 
background
In 2000 Mr A started  a Group Personal  Pension  through his employer with Standard  Life, 
which was switched to a personal pension  when he became freelance in 2010.  Mr A 
continued to contribute to the pension plan, and his personal  service  company maintained 
the employer contributions. A servicing agent  remained  connected to the plan.
In 2014 he engaged B to review his financial affairs. Standard Life confirmed to B that Mr As 
accumulated fund was subject  to a fund management charge of 0.503% after the application 
of an overall 0.497% reduction, part of which (0.3%) resulted  from commission given up by 
the servicing agent of his plan at that time. It appears the remaining reduction was a 
combination of value for money discounts applying to the earlier  increments to the plan and 
large fund discounts applying  to the later increments.  Standard  Lifes  response says [Mr A] 
currently  benefits from preferential lower cost charges.   
In March 2016 Mr A made two contributions to his pension  totalling £180,000 which had the 
large fund discount,  but no longer benefitted from the 0.3%  discount.  Mr A believes this has 
resulted in him paying an additional £600  per year which he wasnt  told about. He wants this 
extra charge  refunded.  Standard Life explained that Mr As fund is made  up of a number  of 
increments; the charging structure for each  depends  on the applicable terms at the time. It 
says its own charges havent increased,  but it can no longer offer a discount based  on 
commission given up by an agent. B and Mr A feel Standard Life didnt  bring these different 
terms to Mr As attention,  so they complained to us. To resolve his complaint  Mr A wants 
Standard Life to restore the 0.3% rebate backdated  to every unit purchased since  2012.
I issued a provisional decision in April, not upholding this complaint for broadly the same  
reasons as our investigator. But I did so mainly because B thought  our investigators 
response didnt  address  all the points Mr A had raised.
Standard Life had no further  comments to add. But B responded in detail. As well as making  
some corrections to the background  which Ive reflected in my final decision, in summary 
they said as follows:
No dispute  exists with Standard Life over the non-disclosure of the terms at the time 
Mr A made further contributions in autumn  2016;
Mr A thought he was dealing direct with Standard Life following the closure of his 
servicing agent. But he shouldnt be disadvantaged  for not having an advisor;
What evidence is there to show the large fund discounts  applied from 2012;
Its incorrect to say the 0.3% discount only applied to contributions arranged by the 
servicing agent between 2010  and 2011. The discount applied to the whole fund for 
units purchased between 2000 and 2012;
There must be more relevant factors regarding the discount,  as the servicing  agent  
was only involved since the tenth year of the policys life;
Standard Life relied  on a defunct agent to Mr As detriment and it erroneously 
blamed the Retail  Distribution Review  for having to stop the commission  rebates, a 
position it believes I accepted in my provisional  decision;
Ref: DRN61044062Theres no evidence Mr A received  a policy document  in 2016 explaining charges 
may increase and special terms removed or reduced
Even if he did, this statement isnt clear enough  to warn him the discount  hed 
previously benefitted from had been removed;
As theres no evidence Standard Life told Mr A anything about charges before 
September 2016 his complaint should  succeed.
As a resolution Mr A would accept being  permitted  to transfer the units purchased  
with the March 2016 contribution to a cheaper  provider of his choice and an 
adjustment of the 0.3% discount  applied retrospectively. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive no reason to depart 
from the conclusion  reached in my provisional decision. Ill revisit my provisional findings  
below to take into account the further points B has made.
I need to decide if its fair for Standard  Life to effectively  increase the charges  for Mr As 
pension, and whether this was communicated to Mr A. B says Mr A believed he was a direct 
customer of Standard Life since 2010 as the first servicing agent  had ceased trading. But 
thats not quite  right.  It was absorbed into a larger  group  in 2013, but was still trading (and 
still is). As Standard  Life hadnt been  asked to update Mr As record  it remained under the 
impression he was still using the servicing agent.  He wasnt  as orphan client as B 
suggests. Its records were only changed  in May 2016 to reflect  Mr As appointment of B.
contributions made in 2010 and 2011 (via the servicing agent)
Ive seen the covering letters, so I can see all three  of the contributions made  in 2010 and 
2011 totalling £140,000  were arranged through the servicing agent  (no contributions were 
made in 2012). And all benefitted from the 0.3% discount funded by a specific arrangement 
with that servicing  agent, whereby agents  gave up their commission  to benefit their 
customers. Its not clear  from Standard Lifes final response letter  whether the increments 
before 2010 were also on a nil commission  basis, but that doesnt have a bearing on this 
decision.
This arrangement could  no longer  apply  to increments made following the Retail  Distribution 
Review (RDR)  in 2012 which banned future  commission arrangements.  This meant there 
was no possibility of there  being commission on new increments, which  the servicing agent 
or any new adviser (such as B) could then give up. Whilst  Standard  Life was free to react to 
the changing environment and take the opportunity to revise  its charges on future 
increments, it was under no obligation  to do so. Thats  the nature of a competitive market. 
So I dont  agree this is an issue of Standard Life attributing the RDR for causing its charges 
to increase.
Although Mr A no longer received the 0.3% discount on new contributions,  as his fund had 
reached a certain  level he benefitted from a large fund discount. My understanding from 
Standard Lifes  final response is this large fund discount had been in operation  on all 
increments made since  Standard  Life had previously simplified its charging structure in 
2001. Increments  prior to that date had instead  benefited from the value for money  
discount. 
Ref: DRN61044063Ive seen copies  of annual statements for 2012,  2013 and 2014 sent to Mr A, to the address 
hes given this service. The 2012 statement says charges may vary. The 2013 and 
subsequent statements were set out in a clearer format, in response to customer feedback.  
These say charges may vary in future  and included  a link to the relevant section of 
Standard Lifes  website. Standard Lifes records note that copies were  also sent to Mr As 
advisors at the time. 
Mr A has clearly  stated he makes his own decisions in relation to his pension, including  how 
much to invest and the choice of funds. And he believed  he was transacting  direct with 
Standard Life and not through a servicing  agent.  So Id expect him to carefully read the 
policy documents, including information  about charges. Mr A may not have appreciated the 
implication for his own pension, and he may not have  been aware of any special commission 
arrangement with the servicing agent.  But as the three contributions the servicing agent 
made on Mr As behalf in 2010 and 2011  were on nil commission terms, I think its 
reasonable for Standard  Life to have expected them to make Mr A aware of any commission 
they were giving up. 
contributions made by Mr A in March  2016  
In February 2015  Mr A asked Standard Life to provide information to B about  his pension. 
This information included the phrase Your customer currently benefits from preferential  
lower cost charges . But given the warnings  in the statements,  I dont think  B or Mr A should  
have assumed that because hed received a discount on charges relating to contributions  
made several years earlier,  the same charging  structure would apply to future contributions.  
As far as I can see, neither B or Mr A specifically asked about the charging structure, or 
checked whether  the discount  Mr A was currently benefitting from would apply going  
forward, prior to him making the two contributions totalling £180,000 in March  2016. I think 
the word currently was reasonably a prompt for them to make  these  further enquiries. As it 
turned out, the figure Standard Life gave at the time was the figure  averaged across several 
different increments, each  of which had slightly different charges. So a decision on whether 
to set up a new increment, which again would  be subject to the charges applicable at the 
time it began, couldnt be based on this figure  alone.
Ive seen a copy  of the literature sent to Mr A in 2016 following those contributions.  B says 
theres no evidence  Mr A received this, but as its correctly addressed I think on balance it 
was probably sent to Mr A. I cant hold Standard Life responsible if Mr A didnt receive it. But 
I think its more likely he did, and either doesnt remember due to the passage  of time, or he 
simply didnt read it carefully  at the time. 
The covering  letter included a 30 day cooling off period, and the enclosed policy booklet 
includes the following  at section 15(4) of Standard Lifes terms and conditions:
 Charges may be increased (and we may reduce  or remove any special terms) to 
reflect increases  in overall costs, or changes  in the assumptions that we make, or because 
the criteria on which we agreed to provide special terms are not being satisfied. Where your 
special terms reflect terms available to your financial adviser  (or the person who introduced  
your business to us) that are better  than our standard terms, we may also reduce your 
special terms if we reduce  or remove those better terms.  (my emphasis). 
Ref: DRN61044064Mr A says he thought  he was dealing with Standard Life direct rather than through  an agent, 
and hed just made  a significant contribution to his pension. So I think  its reasonable to 
expect him to review  the information he was sent within that 30 day period when he could 
have asked questions  or changed his mind. I appreciate  Mr A didnt see this information until 
after hed made the contributions. But this clause means Standard Life is entitled to set the 
terms on which it accepts new contributions, and special terms are not guaranteed to 
continue indefinitely. Ive explained why I dont  think  the reply  Standard  Life had previously 
given to B meant  Mr A could presume  what charges  would apply to his next increment.  
Reference to charges  varying had also been included in the statements he received in the 
intervening years. And if in doubt,  given that he wasnt going through the servicing  agent  it 
was open for Mr A to double check with Standard Life his understanding of what the charges 
on a new increment would be.
It also wouldnt have been necessary  for Mr A to refer to his cooling off literature so closely if 
hed requested (or arranged for B to ask) for an illustration beforehand  showing the potential  
benefits to be secured  by the further contributions he was about to make  particularly given 
their value.
transfer from the more expensive provider in October 2016
In September  2016 B requested a personal  illustration of Mr As personal  pension plan. This 
was prior to Mr A transferring funds  from another provider, which he describes as more  
expensive. Page 4 of that illustration, under a large, bold heading What  are the charges? 
says as follows:
We deduct  charges to meet the cost of setting up and managing  your plan. The charges 
weve shown may vary and depend  on the actual investments you choose.
Then a table is displayed showing the charges applicable to Mr As funds (1.000% for both),  
then below that additional charges for auditors fees etc. of 0.011% for one fund and 0.008%  
for the other.  Underneath this it explains the additional  large  fund benefits for funds of over 
£25,000 and £50,000. 
Ive previously said I think the heading is significantly prominent, and the information 
presented in a clear  table format to enable  Mr A and B to understand the charges which  
apply to his funds. Theres no mention of any other discount, so I dont think  Mr A or B 
should have assumed one applied. B says that no dispute exists with Standard Life over the 
non-disclosure of these terms, which I take to mean  that its accepting the illustration is clear 
rather than that these contributions arent  part of the complaint  as they were included when 
the complaint  was made to Standard Life. So Ive continued to address them  in this decision 
on that basis.
Following this illustration Mr A decided to transfer  more than £33,000  from another  provider 
whose charges he believed were more expensive. But it seems he made his decision  
without checking  whether  the other providers charges were actually higher than Standard 
Lifes. Mr A says he transferred the funds based on Bs recommendation that he was 
currently benefitting from a favourable  charging  arrangement. It seems both B and Mr A 
have interpreted this to mean that any additional contributions  made in the future would also 
be on the same favourable terms as set out in Standard Lifes response from 2015. But I 
dont think they should have assumed this. When  Standard Life initially  provided information 
to B about Mr As pension plan it was given  no indication that Mr A was considering 
transferring funds held with another provider. So it had no reason to explain what  charges 
Ref: DRN61044065would apply to new money. But even if it turns out the other providers  charges  werent  more  
expensive, I cant say Standard Life misled Mr A or encouraged him to make  the transfer on 
false pretences. 
conclusion
B is correct that the RDR doesnt  prevent Standard Life offering a discount on new business  
(for a reason unrelated to commission) if it wished. But its not obliged to, and while  Im sorry 
Mr A wasnt  aware, I dont think this means  the standard  terms Standard  Life applied to 
post-2012 contributions didnt apply to him. These terms applied  across the board (subject  to 
any additional large fund discount) to all policyholders making new contributions. 
I understand why B is concerned that Standard Life has changed the charges with (from Mr 
As point  of view) inadequate  notification.  But this isnt a situation where its increased the 
ongoing charges on his existing increments. The terms and conditions dont require 
Standard Life to accept new contributions on the same basis  as it may have done in the 
past. And the change here was as a direct  result of Standard Life withdrawing its special 
terms but on new increments only. It would be unfair  for Mr A to benefit from lower charges 
than other  policy  holders.  
So taking everything into account, I dont uphold  this complaint and wont be asking 
Standard Life Assurance Limited to make any refund  to Mr A. And if B is correct  that 
Standard Life doesnt permit split transfers, it follows I wont require them  to allow  Mr A to 
transfer the units purchased with the March 2016  contribution.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6104406