K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited wont  pay her jewellery care 
insurance policy claim for her stolen jewellery.  
background
Mrs S bought some jewellery from a high street retailer in 2015. At the same  time she 
purchased a policy which provided  cover  for theft,  damage or breakdown  of her items. 
In January 2019, Mrs S had her boiler  serviced by an engineer. Some days  after his visit she 
realised a number  of items of her jewellery had been  stolen. She notified the police and 
made a claim under  her policy to Assurant.  Assurant considered Mrs Ss claim  against  the 
policy terms and regrettably  declined it. It said the policy didnt provide cover for theft 
undertaken by persons lawfully in Mrs Ms home (such as the service engineer).  
Mrs S complained to Assurant about its decision to decline her claim. It looked into her 
complaint but didnt  change its mind. It said this was because the engineer  had been  
welcomed into her home to carry out the service to the boiler.  It said it appeared he was 
unfortunately not in Mrs Ss sight the entire  time because she was caring for her sick 
husband. It said it seemed that whilst she was doing  so he entered  her bedroom and stole  
her jewellery. Assurant said it sympathised  with Mrs Ss loss, the fact shed been taken 
advantage of and that shed been  the victim of an opportunistic theft. Despite this it said the 
theft didnt meet the policy terms and so it wasnt able to cover  her claim.
Unhappy with the outcome of Assurants investigation Mrs S complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into her complaint and recommended that it was upheld and that 
Assurant settle her claim in full. 
Mrs S accepted our investigators assessment but Assurant didnt. In response it said it 
didnt doubt Mrs Ss account of events at all or that the theft had occurred as described.  But 
it said the policy terms said claims for theft where the perpetrator  had been lawfully on the 
premises (regardless of which rooms  they may have been  in) were excluded  from cover.  
Assurant asked for the complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans decision.  
I issued a provisional decision on this case earlier this month. I didnt  think  that Mrs Ss 
complaint was one that should  be upheld. I made the following provisional findings:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
With regret for the upset  this will cause Mrs S, I dont think  her complaint should be upheld. 
Ill explain  why. 
Insurance policies,  of whatever nature, dont provide  cover for all eventualities. Assurants 
policy provides Mrs S with cover  for a five year term for theft,  damage or breakdown  of her 
jewellery. And within the policy  terms there  are certain circumstances listed   called policy  
exclusions  where  the jewellery wont be covered by the policy  if stolen, damaged or 
broken. 
Ref: DRN67776132The risk of providing cover for stolen, damaged or broken jewellery rests with Assurant.  It 
decides the terms it wants to offer cover  on, what circumstances it wants  to exclude from 
cover and it sets the price  accordingly. Generally the higher the price the greater  the cover. 
The circumstances excluding cover  are typically those which  an insurer  considers to be too 
risky  or, put differently,  more likely to happen. In Mrs Ss policy,  one of those scenarios is 
that Assurant isnt willing to provide cover for theft if that theft is carried  out by someone  the 
policyholder has lawfully invited into their home. 
Of course I understand  that Mrs S needed her boiler serviced and I empathise that she was 
attending to her sick husband  whilst  the engineer  was there. Consequently he wasnt in her 
sight the whole time he was in her home. And I note the police have arrested the engineer 
and that he is under suspicion  of carrying out other similar thefts in the locality. Mrs S did 
nothing wrong  and she has indeed been  the victim of an opportunistic,  unpleasant, 
unwarranted crime. I have  every sympathy  for the situation she has found herself in. 
But despite  the natural  sympathy  I have  for Mrs S it wouldnt be fair for me to make Assurant 
settle her claim in circumstances where the policy did not provide cover.  That wouldnt be 
reasonable. I cant say whether the engineer  needed to go into her bedroom (in order  to 
check the radiator  as part of the service maybe) or not, but even if he didnt, and he didnt 
have her permission  to be in there, that doesnt mean Assurant has to pay the claim. The 
policy refers to the premises  so that means  the whole home. The policy  doesnt specify 
which parts  of a home a lawfully invited person is and isnt allowed to enter in order  for cover 
to engage. 
So it follows  that I dont  think that Assurant has unreasonably  declined  Mrs Ss theft claim 
and that Im unable to uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Assurant replied to my provisional decision to say it was happy  with it and had nothing 
further to add. Our investigator spoke to Mrs S on the telephone. She said she had nothing  
to say in response  to my provisional decision  but was naturally upset about the circumstance 
she was in. She told our investigator that shed spoken to the manager of the boiler company 
and that he had indicated that he would make a claim  on his own business insurance and 
reimburse her for her loss. 
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any substantive comment in response to my provisional 
decision my provisional findings  and provisional  decision remain unchanged.  For the 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied that this is a complaint that shouldnt 
be upheld. I sincerely  hope that the engineers employer is able to make a successful claim 
on his own insurance  and that hes able to reimburse Mrs S for her loss.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN67776133Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6777613