K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
April 2010. Mrs P says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs P bought the policy in April 2010  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  The sale 
took place online.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because they didnt feel Mrs P was given clear enough 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations. They thought this would have 
mattered to Mrs P because she had a pre-existing  medical condition and thought she 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy had she been  given clearer  information. Barclays didnt 
agree with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs P got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Barclays has provided us with a copy of the PPI policy wording which  sets out, amongst 
other things,  the policy exclusions and limitations.  Looking at the policy wording  its clear  that 
any claims related to pre-existing conditions arent covered under the policy terms. This is 
important, as Mrs P has told us that she suffers from an ongoing medical  condition  which  
was diagnosed several years before she purchased  the PPI. So, Ive gone on to consider 
whether the exclusion  relating to pre-existing conditions was made clear to Mrs P at the time 
of sale.
Barclays has provided our service with copies  of the screenshots  of the online application 
process from the time Mrs P applied for her credit  card and purchased  the PPI. A review of 
these screenshots  shows that the exclusions relating  to pre-existing medical conditions were 
set out in a scrolling text box which appeared at the point at which Mrs P selected the PPI. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think the exclusion relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions was sufficiently  brought to Mrs Ps attention. I say this because there was no 
requirement for Mrs P to scroll through all the text in the scrolling text box before agreeing to 
purchase the PPI. 
So, Ive considered whether Mrs P would have  done  anything  differently had she known 
about the policy exclusion. Taking  everything  into account, I dont think Mrs P wouldve 
bought the PPI if shed realised she wouldnt be covered for claims resulting from her pre-
existing medical condition. In the knowledge that the policy wouldnt cover claims for the one 
Ref: DRN66859362thing that she was most likely to be concerned  about, I dont  think she would have 
considered the PPI a useful thing to have. So, I think Mrs P has lost out because of what 
Barclays did wrong. 
Barclays has said that it doesnt think Mrs Ps medical condition wouldve affected her 
decision to take out the PPI policy. Its based  this on the fact that Mrs P hadnt  mentioned 
that shed had any time off work  for her medical condition. Barclays  says this shows  that its 
likely that Mrs Ps medical condition was well managed. Ive thought about what Barclays  
has said, but I havent seen enough  to say that this would have been  the case. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint on the basis that I dont  think  Barclays made it 
sufficiently clear that Mrs P wouldnt be able to claim for anything linked to her pre-existing 
condition. And I dont think she wouldve agreed  to the policy had she known this. 
putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI and:
A.Barclays should find out how much Mrs P would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs P owes and what  she 
would have owed.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Mrs P would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs P paid more than enough  to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs P paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs P wouldve  owed Barclays something  on her credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year from then on.
C.Barclays should tell Mrs P what its done to work  out A and B.
I can see that Barclays has already paid Mrs P compensation for undisclosed commission 
on the premiums she paid for her PPI policy. Barclays can take off this amount from the 
additional redress due.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give    
Mrs P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN66859363my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6685936