K822xcomplaint
Mr C and Miss M have complained about the mortgage advice they were given by Hay 
Habito Ltd (referred  to here as HHL) when they were buying  a new-build property.
background 
What happened  can be summarised briefly.  In February 2019 Mr C and Miss M were  looking 
to buy their first property. They found  a new-build  property which allowed them  the benefit of 
the Government Help To Buy (HTB)  scheme.  The property also came with a builders  
incentive of £5,000 towards the purchase price. The property price was £199,995  and a 
deposit of £10,000 was required (5% of the purchase price).
Mr C and Miss M contacted HHL for mortgage  advice. HHL recommended  a mortgage  with a 
building society.  It (incorrectly) told Mr C and Miss M that they could use the £5,000  
incentive towards their deposit. But the building society would not accept a builders 
incentive towards the deposit.
This came to light when  the transaction was under way and as a result Mr C says he was 
forced to withdraw £5,000 from his Lifetime  ISA (LISA) to put towards the deposit and he 
and Miss M also had to borrow £5,000 from a family member to complete the purchase.
Once the error came to light, Mr C and Miss M say that HHL continued to try to get them to 
proceed with the building society, telling them there were no lenders which  would accept a 
builders incentive  towards a deposit.  Ultimately Mr C and Miss M sourced a mortgage  from 
another lender. The transaction completed on 29 March 2019, with the builders  incentive  
applied at completion. 
Mr C says that, because  he had to withdraw  £5,000 from his LISA,  he lost a £1,250  bonus 
by withdrawing the funds  within a year of the LISA  being opened  (which  had been in 
September 2018). 
HHL acknowledged it had made mistakes in the application process. Initially  it offered to pay 
compensation of £200 for additional rent Mr C and Miss M had had to pay, £60 for extra 
legal fees and £150 for trouble and upset  a total of £410. HHL wasnt willing  to reimburse 
the £1,250 lost on the LISA  withdrawal.
Unhappy with this, Mr C and Miss M brought  their complaint to us. An investigator  looked at 
the complaint.  She thought the redress offered was fair, other than the payment for trouble 
and upset. She asked  HHL to pay an additional  £100, which  it agreed  to do, bringing the 
total compensation to £510.
Mr C and Miss M didnt think this was fair. They say that, although they could have  
withdrawn from the purchase once  HHLs  mistake  came  to light, theyd already incurred 
solicitors fees, purchased  furniture and arranged for broadband to be installed at their new 
home. They say that, no matter what choice they made  to proceed with the purchase or to 
withdraw from it  theyd have made significant losses.  So they decided to proceed  with the 
option that negated the loss as much as possible and so went  ahead with the purchase,  
losing the £1,250 bonus due to the LISA  withdrawal.
Ref: DRN69146562In the circumstances, Mr C and Miss M argue that HHL should also reimburse the £1,250 
which Mr C lost when he had to withdraw the funds from his LISA. Mr C argues that this is 
money he would not have  lost, but for HHLs mistake.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im glad to see HHL has acknowledged that the service it provided  fell short of the standard 
Mr C and Miss M were entitled  to receive. Because there is no dispute  that errors  were 
made, the only issue I need  to decide  is what compensation should be paid. Mr C and 
Miss M have said that, in addition to the £510 already offered, they want HHL to reimburse 
them for the £1,250 which  Mr C lost when he had no option  but to withdraw £5,000  from his 
LISA to put towards the deposit. 
The terms of his LISA provided that the government would pay a 25% bonus, up to a 
maximum of £1,000 per annum. If any money  is withdrawn during  the first 12 months,  no 
bonus is paid.  There is also a withdrawal charge of 25%, so for a withdrawal of £5,000,  the 
charge is £1,250. The LISA had been opened in September 2018, so any withdrawal before 
September 2019 would  incur a withdrawal  charge.
Where a mistake has been made, I have to decide what I think would have happened if the 
mistake hadnt been made. In this case, the mistake  was that HHL told Mr C and Miss M that 
they could use the £5,000 builders incentive  towards their deposit, when they could  not.
Mr C and Miss M found their property in February  2019, and wanted to complete  in early 
March 2019. They needed a £10,000 deposit.  The withdrawal penalty on Mr Cs LISA 
applied until September 2019.
Ive read the live chat from Mr Cs first telephone  conversation with HHL on 2 February 2019. 
In relation to the deposit, Mr C explains that he and Miss M will be contributing  £5,000 each. 
Mr C also says My deposit is all coming  from my savings in a [building society] LISA. 
[Miss M] has some  savings in a HTB ISA and the rest in a [bank] account. So my [LISA}  has 
£5,000.
This is before there is any mention of a builders  incentive or any advice by HHL that the 
builders incentive  could be used towards the deposit. In the circumstances, Im satisfied it 
was Mr Cs intention from the start to use the LISA  for his deposit. So Im satisfied, given that 
completion was originally to take place in early  March  2019, that Mr C would always have 
incurred the £1,250 withdrawal penalty  by withdrawing the money  before  September  2019. 
Mr C and Miss M should not have been  told that they could use the £5,000 builders 
incentive towards a deposit. When this mistake came to light, Mr C followed through  with his 
original plan to use his LISA for his share of the deposit. This means  that Mr C was back  in 
the position hed have  been in if the mistake hadnt been made. 
It follows that if HHL hadnt  made  the mistake of telling Mr C that the builders incentive could 
be used towards the deposit, Mr Cs position wouldnt have been any different in relation to 
the LISA withdrawal.  
Ref: DRN69146563HHL has accepted that its actions resulted in additional expense, as well as trouble and 
upset, for Mr C and Miss M. I appreciate  Mr C and Miss M were disappointed  that they 
couldnt use the builders incentive  towards  their deposit and instead had to fund this from 
their own savings. But, as Ive noted  above,  this is what  theyd always intended to do in any 
event.
Ive noted HHLs offer of settlement and Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable and 
proportionate to the mistake that was made.  For the reasons given above, I can see no basis  
on which it would be fair or reasonable for HHL to compensate Mr C and Miss M for the 
withdrawal costs from Mr Cs LISA.
my final decision
My decision  is that I partly  uphold this complaint.  In full and final settlement I direct Hey 
Habito Ltd to pay Mr C and Miss M compensation of £510 made up as follows:
£200 for additional rent;
£60 for legal fees;
£250 for trouble and upset.
I make  no other order or award.
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint, which means that we will 
be unable to enter into further discussion  about  the merits  of the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6914656