K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Homer & Co LLP (Homer) incorrectly set up his mothers (Mrs Cs) bond 
so that it was only in her name, rather than in joint names with him as the sole beneficiary.  
background
In June 2011, Mr C contacted the business about Mrs C investing some money. She had 
£200,000 available from the sale of her home, and wanted an investment that would provide 
an income. Mr C was acting for Mrs C as power of attorney  over her affairs. 
A few days  later the business  wrote  to Mr C and Mrs C with information about a MetLife 
bond, which was duly set up in early July 2011 following a meeting. Sadly Mrs C passed 
away and the bond was surrendered  the proceeds  were paid to Mr C.  
It seems  the bond provider thought  Mr C was the sole beneficiary  which  was an error  
and in due course  he had to pay his sister half of the proceeds.  
Mr C maintains he was the sole beneficiary, and Homer set the bond up incorrectly  against 
his instructions. He says he shouldnt have had to pay his sister half of the money. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, and thought it should be partially upheld. 
In summary,  she said:
Having reviewed the available evidence, on balance hes satisfied that the policy was 
correctly set up in Mrs Cs name only. Theres insufficient evidence  to suggest it 
shouldve been set up otherwise. 
Homer wrote to Mr C and Mrs C, twice, before and after the meeting at the end of 
June 2011, before  the bond was set up. It referred  to the bond  as Mrs Cs and only 
took into account her financial circumstances at the time. 
After the meeting a suitability letter was provided  which  addressed Mrs Cs 
investment needs, her attitude to risk, and why the recommendation was suitable  for 
her. Whilst the letter mentions Mr C, twice, this doesnt mean  the bond was a joint 
recommendation. If joint ownership  was intended thats what wouldve been 
addressed in the suitability letter but there was no mention of it. 
Despite Mr Cs belief that he was placed  as the sole beneficiary, the only way he 
couldve been is if Mrs C assigned the bond  to him, or if Homer had arranged  a 
discounted gift trust (DGT).  
The sentence  Mr C mentions has to be read in aggregate  with the whole document 
rather than in isolation. The investigator doesnt agree with Mr Cs interpretation that 
its evidence of Mr C being  the sole beneficiary of the bond.
The sentence  reads: Whilst  I would not suggest  that you encash the AXA bonds,  I 
feel the MetLife Plan offers  more security for you and Nell and I have  discussed  this 
aspect of the new Investment In detail  but the investigator says it should be read 
with a comma  after you, so it should read I feel the MetLife  Plan offers more  
security for you, and Nell and I have discussed this aspect  of the new Investment In 
detail. (the above bold underlined comma is my emphasis added). 
Whilst she doesnt disbelieve Mr Cs version  of events, on the face of the available 
evidence, and on balance, shes unable to safely say its the correct  version. 
Notwithstanding the above, there  are a number of errors on the application form to 
the bond provider and Homer shouldve raised concerns with it when  
Ref: DRN69146542correspondence was received suggesting  that Mr C was a plan owner   which  wasnt  
possible in the circumstances. 
She can see why Homers  evaluations to a third party, led to the bond  being 
interpreted as a joint policy  and Mrs Cs Will being interpreted  incorrectly.  
Given the trouble  and upset this was likely to have caused  Homer should pay Mr C 
£350 compensation.  
Mr C disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary,  he maintains that he should  
be paid the money  that hes had to pay out to his sister and a greater compensation for 
trouble and upset.  He has also mentioned  that hes incurred costs of £2,547.00 which  he 
wants reimbursing. 
Homer made  the following  key submissions:
Whilst the complaint  was partially upheld it dealt  with the complaints process fairly. 
The valuation information it provided  to the third party  was done in good  faith and 
was only when questions were raised  about  the value of Mrs Cs estate, in relation to 
her bond  only. 
It ceased working with Mrs C in 2015   it wouldve been happy  to provide any 
information requested  about inheritance tax in 2016. 
Probate was granted  in May 2016 and it feels Mr Cs solicitor and any third party 
wouldve already  been aware whether or not the value of the bond should or 
shouldnt be included  in the calculations. 
It reiterated the two ways in which Mr C couldve  been  the sole beneficiary. So any 
complaints now about the way the estate was distributed should be against the 
Solicitor and the third party not Homer.  
If the bond was in joint names it wouldnt have been subject to IHT at the time. 
Any reference to Mr C in the correspondence wouldve been  in relation to his role as 
the power of attorney and not as the beneficiary. 
It has always told Mr C the proceeds would have to be split with his sister and would 
be subject to IHT and Mr C moving the investment away  from Homer a year before 
Mrs C passed away hasnt changed this point. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to partially  uphold  this complaint. 
One the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the bond was set up correctly  in Mrs 
Cs name only. However I do think Homer has caused Mr C trouble and upset for which  it 
should pay him some compensation.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise the Mr Cs strength of feeling  about this matter.   
Ref: DRN69146543He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by him and the business, and reach what I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Ive seen nothing  to suggest that this bond was 
set up incorrectly by Homer. The documentation suggests that it was more  likely than not set 
up correctly in line with Mr Cs instructions. 
I note Mr C and Mrs C were supplied with documentation that made reasonably clear the 
nature, operation and set up of the bond. If the bond wasnt  set up as Mr C had intended, 
then as the attorney for Mrs Cs affairs held through an enduring power of attorney  held 
since 2007  the responsibility was with him. Its possible Mr C didnt read all the paperwork 
or just assumed  because hed acted for Mrs C alone, the proceeds would be paid to him. 
Despite what Mr C says about  being named as the sole beneficiary, Ive seen nothing  to 
suggest that he was. Ive not seen any evidence that the bond  was assigned to him, or that a 
DGT was set up which are the two most common ways of ensuring that Mr C was formally 
the sole beneficiary of Mrs Cs bond.  
   
Despite what Mr C says, I agree with the investigator that the sentence he refers  to (quoted 
in the background section above) has to be read with the whole document rather than in 
isolation. Having  done so, I dont  agree  with Mr Cs interpretation of it, and I dont accept that 
its evidence of Mr C being  the sole beneficiary. I think  any mention of Mr C within the 
correspondence was likely to have been  because of his role as attorney, as made  clear  once 
the missing comma was put in in the sentence. 
Its not entirely clear  why the bond provider only paid out to Mr C. Im conscious of some of 
the inaccuracies on the form referred to by the investigator sent to the bond  provider, its 
possible that these  inaccuracies  despite  the bond  being set up correctly  had an impact.  
I understand the complaint was raised after probate when Mr Cs sister  questioned the size 
of Mrs Cs estate.  And thats  when  the actions of the bond provider came to light and Mr C 
had to pay half of the proceeds of the bond to his sister. But this doesnt absolve Homer of 
the other errors  that Im satisfied it has made.  Im persuaded that its actions were partly 
responsible for the third party thinking  Mr C was the sole beneficiary of the bond,  which  was 
more likely than not to have impacted on how Mrs Cs Will was interpreted. And despite  what 
Homer says about the timing of probate this doesnt  mean that it shouldnt pay compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused. 
In this instance I think £350 compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused  is broadly fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Homers subsequent actions would have led Mr C to 
think he was entitled to the entire proceeds  when he evidently wasnt.
Ref: DRN69146544If Mr C is still unhappy  with the bond providers  actions   Im aware  that his sister received 
some redress from the bond provider  thiss a separate  matter  between him and the bond 
provider. In this instance  Im only looking  at his complaint against Homer.  
Im mindful of Mr Cs points about  the legal fees hes incurred  but in this instance Im not 
satisfied that hes entitled to be reimbursed. Complaints referred to our service are free of 
charge for consumers  and I note Mr C represents himself in this instance. Ive not seen 
anything that a solicitor  wouldve done that Mr C hasnt done  just as well in putting his 
complaint.  
I appreciate Mr C will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, despite partially  upholding this complaint, Im unable to 
give him what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. 
Homer & Co LLP should pay Mr C £350 compensation for trouble and upset. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6914654