K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed him to withdraw money from his account 
without identification  or his debit card.
Mr S is represented by his father in bringing  this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.
background
On 12 June 2018 Mr S visited  an HSBC  branch  and withdrew £1,000 using  his full driving 
license as proof of identification. He wasnt able to use his debit card as it had been taken by 
his parents beforehand.  They were  trying to help him through the financial difficulties he was 
experiencing by restricting  his ability to access his money.
When Mr S withdrew his money on 12 June 2018  his signature matched the banks records  
and the withdrawal form was completed. Six days later he visited  the same branch  again 
where he withdrew £500 from his account. And an hour later he attended  the same branch 
again and withdrew a further £700. On the second  and third attendance, Mr S wasnt  able to 
produce any identification because, by now, this had also been taken by his parents. His 
parents thought this would stop him being able to withdraw money from his account. But 
HSBC said it allowed the two transactions on 18 June 2018  as Mr S had been identified by 
staff, whod recognised  him from the previous week. And it said his signature matched the 
one it held for him.
The funds Mr S withdrew had been received via a payday loan. He used the money to 
gamble and complained to HSBC that it shouldnt have allowed him to withdraw the money 
without valid identification.  He said, in doing  so, it had failed to correctly  and securely 
manage his account.  He also said that by allowing this to happen it had placed him in 
substantial debt. To resolve his complaint, he asked HSBC to refund the £1,200  hed 
withdrawn on 18 June  2018.
But HSBC  didnt uphold  Mr S complaint so he referred it to us. While  our adjudicator 
empathised with him, they didnt think that HSBC had done  anything wrong or needed to do 
anything more here. Mr S didnt agree  with this and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr S so Ill explain  why.
I think its important to say at the outset that, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was 
wrong of HSBC to allow Mr S to withdraw this money. A bank should  generally follow  the 
instructions of its customers unless theres  good reason for it not to. HSBC  says before 
allowing a customer to withdraw cash over the counter an employee must  ensure that 
theyve identified a customer satisfactorily. It has a policy to help with this process. This 
policy says the customer must provide a signature,  which must be signed  in front of the 
employee. That signature must then be compared to the sample signature held by the bank 
on its records. Its only when the payment exceeds  a certain amount, and the customer  isnt 
Ref: DRN68594472known to the employee, that photographic identification must be presented  to continue  with 
the transaction. 
Mr S believes HSBC  was wrong  in not asking him to produce identification. But because  his 
withdrawals didnt exceed the relevant amount identification wasnt required in line with 
HSBCs policy. From having seen  Mr S sample signature from HSBCs  records  Im satisfied 
the counter withdrawal  forms  are endorsed with his signature.
In any event, if the customer is known, its HSBCs policy not to require identification  from 
them. The bank said Mr S was known to staff because of his transactions  there the previous 
week. And I also understand  from HSBC that Mr S nearly always visits the branch in 
question so I think it reasonable  that hed be known to staff there. Where thats the case, I 
think its fair that HSBC  didnt feel it was necessary to identify Mr S any further as it knew 
who he was  which is ultimately the purpose of any further identity  checks  HSBC would do.
Security checks are put in place by banks to stop third parties accessing accounts but that 
hasnt happened  here because theres no dispute that it was Mr S who attended the branch 
to withdraw his money.  And I understand that HSBC asked Mr S a security question, which  
he answered correctly. So Im satisfied that HSBC followed its policy  properly and that the 
employees who served Mr S believed  theyd identified him satisfactorily before they 
authorised the withdrawals hed requested. Mr S may disagree with that policy, but were  not 
the regulator of banks  and building societies. So, we cant comment on whether a business 
policy is right or tell it that its policy should be changed. Im satisfied it acted fairly here 
though.
 
HSBC hadnt been made  aware  of any issues with Mr S management of his account.  It cant 
be seen from Mr S bank statements that he was using the money in his account to gamble.  
Ive seen a pattern of money being paid into Mr S account  and then being  quickly  
withdrawn. But HSBC couldnt  have  known how Mr S was using the money he was 
withdrawing unless  it had been  told. There were funds available to cover each withdrawal. 
And taking  everything  into account,  I dont think there was any reason for HSBC to refuse  
Mr S access  to the money he wanted to withdraw. 
I understand why Mr S parents  went to such efforts to try to restrict Mr S access to his 
money and I have sympathy for the situation  they found themselves in. I think  they were just 
trying their best to help Mr S. But my role here is to look at this complaint  impartially and 
while Ive had regard  for all Mr Ss parents have said on his behalf, I also have to be fair to 
HSBC too. 
With that in mind, I cant see there was any reason that HSBC shouldve  acted differently 
here. It wasnt  on notice of the situation underlying the withdrawals and I dont think  it could 
have known about this from the conduct  of the account alone. And even when  HSBC  asked 
how Mr S was intending to use the money hed withdrawn  here,  it says he gave it valid 
reasons for the withdrawals. It follows that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require 
it to refund  these withdrawals. 
So, for the reasons given Im satisfied that HSBC  acted fairly and reasonably and Im not 
going to be asking it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN68594473my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6859447