K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that a delay by Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) in providing her with an annual  
statement for her investment ISA led to her incurring a loss when she sold it. 
background
Mrs T usually received an annual statement for her ISA in the second  half of November,  
showing a valuation made in mid-October.  But in 2018 some statements were  sent late by 
BoS because  of an issue with printing. This meant  that Mrs T didnt receive her 2018 
statement until 6 December 2018, around  two weeks later than normal. 
When Mrs T did receive it she immediately called BoS and explained that she wanted to sell 
the investment  as she was concerned about its falling value. The sale was completed but 
when Mrs T received her cheque she noted that the amount  generated by the sale was less 
than the indicative  value shed been  given on the phone and also the value given in the 
statement. So she felt BoS had caused  her to incur a loss. 
She called BoS to complain. It investigated  the matter and explained  how the printing issue  
had led to a delay in sending statements. It offered Mrs T £150  to compensate her for the 
trouble this had caused. But BoS didnt think it had caused Mrs T a financial loss as it said 
she couldve  taken steps to sell her investment at any time  thered been no need  for her to 
wait for receipt of the statement.  
Mrs T didnt  accept BoS response and referred  the matter to this service.  Our investigator 
didnt agree with BoS. He felt that the delay  in the sending the statement  had caused  Mr T a 
loss. He was satisfied that if shed received the statement two weeks earlier,  on 22 
November 2018,  she wouldve  proceeded exactly as she did when she actually received the 
statement. So, in addition to the £150 compensation,  the investigator  felt BoS should pay 
Mrs T the difference in the actual value she received from the sale and the value she 
wouldve received  if shed sold earlier, on 22 November 2018.  
BoS didnt agree. It remained  of the view that Mrs T hadnt had to rely upon receipt of the 
statement in order to sell. It said she wouldve  been aware she hadnt  received the statement 
and couldve  queried the ISAs value  at any time if she was concerned about its performance. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate BoS point about Mrs T being able to monitor  the performance  of her investment 
by means other than the annual statements. And, as such, she couldve have assessed the 
situation and taken the decision to sell earlier if shed wanted.
But while Mrs T certainly could have used other means to get a value I dont think  its fair to 
say that she should have  done. I think it was reasonable for her to choose to rely upon the 
annual statements that BoS were required to send as the way she preferred to monitor  the 
performance of her investment.
Ref: DRN68200312And while I accept that there was no absolute requirement on BoS to ensure the annual  
statements arrived with Mrs T on a particular  date, I think  its fair to expect it to have 
managed the process so that the statement arrived within a reasonable period of time. 
BoS has explained that there was always as much as a six week period between  the 
valuation date and receipt of the statement  which would take the normal  date of receipt to 
around 26 November.  Its also said that the statements can be received anytime up to the 
end of November.  
But it has acknowledged  that in 2018  printing  issues led to an approximate two week delay 
meaning that statements were sent and received outside these normal parameters. As Mrs T 
received her statement on 6 December 2018  this suggests, as the investigator noted,  that 
without the delay caused by the printing issue Mrs T wouldve received her 2018  statement 
on or around  22 November 2018.
As Mrs T sold her investment as soon as she received the statement  on 6 December 2018  I 
think its more likely  than not that she would also have sold immediately if shed received the 
statement without the delay, within the normal time limits  and it seems reasonable to use 
22 November  2018 as the hypothetical  date. 
So, in summary,  I think its reasonable to make a finding that a problem on the part of BoS  
the printing issue   led to Mrs T receiving her annual statement outside the customary  time 
limits for receipt. And because of this delay she sold her investment later than she would  
otherwise have done. This being  so, I think its fair that BoS compensate her for any loss she 
may have  incurred as a result. Ultimately  I think Mrs T did nothing wrong in using  the 
statements to monitor her investment, whereas BoS did do something wrong in that it failed 
to administer its statement process within the normal, reasonable time limits.
I note Mrs Ts point  about the statement value being  higher, but I think  its clear that even if 
things had run smoothly as normal she wouldnt  have been able to achieve that value when  
she sold as there would always have been  the normal delay between the valuation date 
and receipt of the statement.  Similarly, she wouldve  always  have made  her usual monthly  
contribution to the ISA in November 2018  as contributions always occurred at the beginning 
of the month.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that the complaint should be upheld.  I direct Bank 
of Scotland plc to calculate the amount the sale of Mrs Ts investment wouldve generated 
had she given her instruction on 22 November 2018 rather than 6 December 2018. 
If the amount is higher than the amount she actually received, BoS should pay her the 
difference, plus interest at 8% simple  from 22 November 2018 to the date of settlement. (I 
recognise that Mrs T wouldnt have had the funds available  immediately on 22 November but 
given the size of the sums involved I think its reasonable to use that date as an 
approximation.) 
Ref: DRN68200313BoS should also pay the £150 it offered Mrs T for the trouble  and upset caused  by the 
matter, if its not done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6820031