K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card, in November 2005. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him 
PPI with the card. He says it was sold during an internet application he made.
To keep  things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover)  arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the case and said they didnt think  we should uphold  the 
mis-sale element of the complaint. 
They also said that although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything  wrong  in relation to the 
commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has since made  an offer to Mr M as if 
it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back some of the cost in relation to the 
commission element was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information  
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. However, 
Ive also considered the issue of the non-disclosure  of the commission  as mentioned  above.  
Ive seen that Halifax has made an offer in respect this, and I too think  the offer to refund 
some of the cost to compensate  for the commission element is fair in the circumstances.  Ive 
summarised my reasons for each  of these conclusions below. 
 
I think Halifax made it clear enough that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI if he didnt 
want to, however he chose to take it out. I say this because I think  he would have first 
agreed to the PPI during the internet application  process. He would then have probably 
been sent some documentation to check and sign. Ive seen the original credit 
Ref: DRN64094782agreement and I note he ticked a box and also signed his name against the statement I 
wish to purchase credit card repayments  cover. He also signed the form elsewhere to 
agree to the terms.  In short, I think Halifax properly obtained his consent.
As an internet  sale, Halifax probably didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M because he 
would have made his way through the web-based application in his own time and without 
any intervention from Halifax. This means  Halifax didnt have to check  that the PPI was 
suitable for him, it was for Mr M himself to think about this. Nevertheless,  Halifax still 
have to give Mr M enough clear information  so he could  decide  for himself if the policy  
was right for him.
There was nothing  about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions 
that would  have affected his ability to successfully claim.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it could have been, but as Ive said, he himself chose to take it out so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt wrong for Mr M as Ive mentioned  above,  or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably  thought he was buying  from the information  he was 
likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable for him so it seems like 
it would  have been useful if something went wrong.  I therefore  dont think Mr M would 
have declined the policy even if Halifax had done a better  job at explaining things.
While  the policy contained certain limitations  or exclusions on claims relating to back and 
/ or mental health conditions, in light of Mr Ms own circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite these  limitations or exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. So 
I think he would have  still thought he had some  good reasons  to take the policy out.
Overall, I therefore consider that Mr M would  have still taken out the PPI. I think  the policy  
provided a useful benefit. I also think  the it was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought  
he was getting.  In those circumstances, I think  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event because the evidence shows it was something he wanted to have.
Mr Ms representative raised a number  of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Halifax should  have disclosed  the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
However, Mr Ms representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things carefully and how they might  apply in Mr Ms particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
Ref: DRN64094783non-disclosure of commission
As I mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Halifax didnt  need to disclose the commission  it received 
under the rules that apply   but in any event  I note its offered to pay back some of the cost 
of PPI, so theres  nothing  more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr Ms representative has made  a number  of points about this part of the complaint including  
the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on his complaint. In summary they said Mr M should  get back  all the money  he paid for the 
policy because Halifax failed to tell him about  the high commission  and profit-share rates  
paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover.  Because  they 
say these things  meant  the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had he known about  the level of commission. His representative 
says he should  receive  a refund of all the premiums paid.
However, in this case, Halifax  has shown us that the commission for Mr Ms PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Halifax  has worked  this out 
and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Ms case was less 
than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules about 
compensating consumers.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which require a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed  to tell Mr M about the commission levels in this particular case.  It 
follows that I dont  think the non-disclosure created  an unfair  relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mr M unfairly.   This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr M back  
any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mr M some  of the cost of 
the PPI to compensate Mr M as if it had treated  him unfairly. I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded that the 
non-disclosure of commission  could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN64094784my decision
Having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide  what  is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set out above, 
I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mr Ms complaint or make any award  in his favour. 
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, but it has already offered to pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr M. It should  therefore now make arrangements to pay him, if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6409478