K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
July 2003 alongside a credit card. Mr S, who is represented by a third party,  says 
Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. From what Ive seen 
about the card application  process, I think Mr S made a decision to take out the policy.  Ive 
seen that on his application  form a box was marked with an X to show  hed chosen PPI. I 
think he would have  had the opportunity to review  his application and discuss  it with his BoS 
representative at a meeting in the branch  before making his decision to buy the policy  and 
then sign the application form. 
 I think BoS recommended the PPI to Mr S at the meeting  even though  Mr S isnt so 
sure about  this. As a recommendation, BoS had to check that the PPI was right for him. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example, he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  I say this given that 
it would  pay out in addition the existing benefits he was receiving from his employer if he 
was unable to work.  And it would pay out for longer  up to 12 months  than his existing  
benefits, which hes told us were between 3 and 6 months. The PPI would also pay out on 
top of his employer benefits  and if he lost his job. And although Mr S has told his wife would 
have been able to support him, thats  something  that very much depends on circumstances 
making that possible at a given time.  The PPI also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  And although Ive thought  about  the points 
those representing  Mr S made in response to our adjudicators opinion,  they dont affect my 
decision. 
So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mr S paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mr S back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
From what  Ive seen, it looks as if BoS might not have yet paid this to Mr S. Now that Ive 
issued my decision, if it hasnt already, BoS can make  arrangements to pay the offer sum to 
Mr S. 
Ref: DRN62019412my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6201941