K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a loan in 1991. Mr S has complained on behalf of himself and the estate of Mrs S, 
his wife. 
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold this policy  to them. 
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a 10 year loan for £4,000 in 1991 and at the same  time they were 
sold a PPI policy to protect their loan repayments  in the event of Mr S becoming  unable to 
work or losing his job. Mrs S wasnt covered on the policy.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mr S disagreed with 
this and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit agreement  for this loan. Its the type of agreement 
Ive seen before and theres a section  on it about PPI. There  were two boxes available on 
the form to either say yes or no to having  a PPI with their loan. I can see the yes box was 
ticked and the other  one was left blank. Both Mr and Mrs S signed  the form.
Mr S has provided a number of views  about  why he thinks the policy  was mis-sold. Ive 
looked very carefully at everything hes sent to us. But Im afraid I think the above document  
shows, strongly in my opinion, that Mr and Mrs S agreed to have the PPI. They would also 
have been able to see they had a choice and that they didnt need to agree to it if they didnt 
want to.
I therefore think Halifax properly obtained their consent to add the PPI.
I also know Halifaxs sales processes usually meant  that these types of sales  were advised 
sales. This means the PPI was recommended to them  and so Halifax  had a duty to make 
sure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs. Mr S said the PPI wasnt  suitable, 
because they didnt need it. But Im afraid  I think it was.
I think this because this was a relatively long-term loan and the consequences  of not being 
able to keep up payments  could have been serious.  I accept Mr S says he had some 
protection from sickness at work and I agree that this would  have probably  been quite 
generous. But in my view,  this doesnt  make  the policy unsuitable.
This is because the unemployment and sickness protection in this policy  lasted for 24 
months. This means that in the event of a successful claim, the policy  couldve covered  the 
loan repayments  for that amount of time. This was in addition to any other means  Mr and 
Ref: DRN69061392Mrs S had in place and at around £2.50  per month (variable), I dont think this wouldve been  
unaffordable for them. 
So I think the policy was suitable.
I cant say Mr and Mrs S would have been told everything they should have been. But I note 
the costs of both the loan and PPI were shown on the agreement.  So I think  they knew the 
costs and who was covered.  
To uphold  this case Id need to think Mr and Mrs S were made  to buy the policy  back in 
1991, that it wasnt suitable for them, or that there were some  other  flaws  in the sale. I simply 
dont have that evidence. What Ive seen shows me Mr and Mrs S agreed to the cover,  
probably because  it was something they thought would  be of use. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but this policy wasnt mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Bank  of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to do anything to put matters  right.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S (and the 
estate of Mrs S) to accept or reject  my decision before 28 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6906139