K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  in connection  with a mortgage in 1998 and 1999.  
background
The complaint was looked at by an adjudicator who didnt  think  that the complaint should be 
upheld. Miss H didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings. So the complaint  has been 
passed to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  our approach to complaints about PPI on our website, and Ive used this 
approach in this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  these  complaints.  I explain why below.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Both Lloyds  and Miss H agree that the sales took place during a meeting.  Ive closely looked  
at the paperwork  from both sales. To get both PPI policies  Miss H had to complete an 
application form that was separate to the application for the mortgage. And Miss H had to 
sign for the cover separately to signing for the mortgages. So, overall I think  that Miss H 
knew she was taking  out PPI on each occasion and knew  she had a choice about doing  so.
Miss Hs circumstances  appear to have  been  similar on the occasions  of the two sales.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI on each occasion,  so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
Miss H  and based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances on both occasions, I think  that it 
was. 
 
I say this because  Miss H was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limitations to the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a need for the 
cover. Miss H told us that whilst her initial sick pay was good it dropped significantly after six 
months. And Miss H told us she had some other means she could rely on such as renting 
out a room.  But the PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and in addition to any 
sick pay Miss H wouldve received and would have  paid out longer than her employer would 
have paid her at her full rate of pay. And the policy may have helped Miss H avoid having to 
let out a room  to make ends meet. And the policy also provided  a benefit in the circumstance 
that Miss H lost her job, in which event her employers sick pay arrangements  would not 
have been available to her. So, considering all of these things and the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured  on your home, I think  Miss H wouldve found 
the PPI policies useful.
As well as making sure the policies were  suitable for Miss H, Lloyds also had to make sure 
that it provided information sufficient for Miss H to be sure the policies were right for her. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But for the same reasons that I think the policies were suitable,  I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put Miss H off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN61068492Ive carefully reviewed all of the information  provided  to me. As a result Im not persuaded, 
for the reasons given above, that the policies were mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6106849