K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that British Gas Insurance Limited gave her poor service under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints about insurance companies and 
other regulated financial firms. Where I refer to the insurer or British  Gas, I refer to the 
insurance company  of that name, and I include its engineers and others  for whose actions I 
hold that company responsible.
Mrs J owned a property  that she let to tenants.  She called British Gas for help with the 
central heating boiler. Mrs J complained that British  Gas said it needed a new flue that it 
couldnt source. This meant she had to spend about £1,500.00 on getting someone else to 
install a new boiler,  Mrs J says.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
was satisfied with the way British  Gas had addressed the complaint.
Mrs J disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked  for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. She has sent us further evidence about the flue.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provided  that British Gas would  repair the boiler. But it said that if British  Gas had 
warned that it might  be difficult to find spare parts,  then British  Gas would do what  it could, 
within reason, to repair the boiler.
Mrs J says British  Gas hadnt told her that there  was a problem with spare parts.
But from its records, I see that the boiler  was at least seventeen years old and British  Gas 
had for many years told Mrs J that the boiler was old and in need of replacement. I find it 
likely that British Gas had said that  because of its age - not all spare parts would be 
available.
Mrs J reported that the boiler had a pressure  problem and a British  Gas engineer inspected 
the boiler on 8 October 2017.  His computerised  note was as follows:
CODE5,  EXPATION VESSELL REQUIRED,  BOILER OFF WALL JOB, PARTS 
ORDED, AR BOILER OUT OF ACTION
From that I find that he said the boiler  needed a new expansion vessel.  And that would 
involve taking the boiler off the wall. I find that he ordered  the necessary parts.
The engineer returned on 10 October. Unfortunately theres a conflict  of evidence about  
what happened.
Ref: DRN61876852Mrs J says that the engineer said that if he took the boiler off the wall, it would cause 
damage to the flue. So Mrs J bought  a new boiler  and paid another  engineer  to fit it. She has 
sent us receipts  for £700.00 for the boiler  and £300.00 for installation.
When she first brought her complaint to us, Mrs J sent us a copy of her engineers  report  as 
follows:
We were  requested beforehand by the above  mentioned to remove the flue with the 
utmost of care. This was done  by carefully  removing all cement caulking around the 
annular flue opening.
This Item was then handed  to the owner of the property.
More recently, she has sent us an amended  version of the report  as follows:
We were  requested beforehand by the above  mentioned to remove the flue with the 
utmost of care. This was done  by carefully  removing all cement caulking around the 
annular flue opening. Both the boiler  and flue came out intact and there  was no 
damage to both.
These items  was then handed to the owner  of the property.
I have underlined  the words that have been added  recently.
British Gas says that someone else had damaged the flue. So it contacted the manufacturer  
to see if a replacement  flue was available  which it wasnt.
I prefer the British Gas version  of events for the following reasons:
Mrs Js engineer said that he carefully  removed the old flue and handed it to her - yet 
she hasnt made  it available to British Gas for inspection. 
Mrs Js plumber didnt at first say the flue came out intact and with no damage.
Mr Js plumber still hasnt said the flue was in a condition satisfactory  for re-use.
Therefore I dont find that British Gas treated Mrs J unfairly by declining  to complete  the 
replacement of the expansion  vessel. I think Mrs J was right to recognise that the time had 
come to pay for a new boiler.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to order British  Gas to pay Mrs J a refund of the premium 
she paid or compensation for the cost of the new boiler.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I do not 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61876853
Ref: DRN6187685