K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1998. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility for this sale. 
So, in my decision, Ill just refer to FICL  as the PPI seller. Mrs F says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of the store  card application form Mrs F signed.  I can see FICL made  her 
aware that she had a choice about  adding PPI and that she chose to take it by signing in 
the relevant place . I can understand if she doesnt remember  that now, after all this time.
I dont consider that FICL personally recommended the PPI to Mrs F. So it didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for her. But FICL  should have given her the information she 
needed to decide  for herself  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And I can see why as, despite her enhanced sick pay entitlement,  the PPI benefits 
were considerable and would have paid out for a significant time.  They  covered her for 
unemployment too. I also think its likely Mrs F realised there was a cost for the cover.
Based  on what Ive seen of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover   so it would  
have been useful to her if something went wrong. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mrs Fs lost out because  of how FICL  sold her the 
PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject 
my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6191857