K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited did not inform him of relevant 
changes to his mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when it took over as 
underwriter of the policy.
background
Mr S bought the PPI in 2002 to cover his mortgage  repayments if he was unable to work  due 
to accident or sickness. At that time the policy was underwritten by a different insurer.  
However, Assurant took over as the underwriter  in 2009. Mr S subsequently became 
concerned that the terms of the policy had been changed and that it no longer covered his 
pre-existing medical condition.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint. Assurant disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S had a pre-existing medical condition  when he took out the policy  in 2002. He says that, 
at that time, he was careful to ensure  that his condition would be covered by the policy.  
However, he became  aware in 2018  that his condition might  not be covered.
In advance of taking over as underwriter in February  2009, Assurant sent out a transfer  pack 
in December 2008, informing policyholders of the impending change.  It is Assurants view 
that Mr S was therefore given suitable  notification  of the changes.  It says that whilst the term 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions changed  slightly from those in place at the 
inception of the policy, it has not prejudiced Mr Ss position.
Looking at the transfer pack, it does highlight that the term relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions is changing.  The pack included  a comparison table showing the difference  
between the original and new terms.
The original  terms stated  that a claim for accident or sickness would not be paid if it was 
caused by or related to a condition for which  medical treatment or advice  had been  sought in 
the twelve months prior to the inception date, until two years  had passed since treatment or 
advice had been received.
From 2009,  the term stated that claims for accident or sickness  would  not be paid for 
conditions for which  treatment or advice was sought  in the six months prior to inception of 
the policy for any chronic or continuing  medical  condition.
The comparison table notes that this particular change is either  an improvement on the 
previous cover or benefit or there has been  a reduction in the exclusions applied  at the point 
of claim.
However, looking at the new policy document in full, there is an additional term that was not 
present in the original cover. It says that:
Ref: DRN63395602You will not receive life benefit or incapacity benefit  for any claim, which is caused by, or 
resulting from:
any Chronic Condition  that occurs  prior to the Start Date
A chronic  condition is defined as:
A condition  that occurs  and that continues  indefinitely, or cannot  be cured or eradicated or 
that recurs or requires  treatment.
The comparison table provided  in the transfer  pack does not mention this additional term at 
all.
It would have been important for Mr S to know of this change to the policy because the 
condition he had was likely present from birth and could  not be cured.
In response to our adjudicators view, Assurant  said that the term about chronic conditions  
wasnt introduced  until 2011. This was queried,  as we have an Assurant policy  with a 
drafting date of November  2008  that does contain  the exclusion for chronic conditions, the 
timing of which fits in with the changeover from the original underwriter to Assurant. Assurant 
has now accepted  that the term was indeed present from 2008.
Assurant also said it hadnt seen any evidence that Mr S has a chronic condition  and that 
besides, the assessment of any claim would be dependent upon the medical evidence 
provided in the claim form.  Mr S has provided sufficient information about his health for me 
to be persuaded  that his condition meets the definition of chronic condition  as set out in the 
policy terms. I accept that the assessment of any claim would depend  on the information 
provided in the claim form.  But Mr S was particularly concerned about ensuring that his 
medical condition  was covered. I therefore agree with our adjudicator  that, if Mr S had known 
in 2009 that there was a chance that his condition was excluded from cover, he would have 
chosen to cancel the policy at that time.
The exclusion relating  to chronic conditions  is a significant term that Assurant  had a duty to 
highlight to Mr S. However,  the information  Assurant  sent to Mr S in 2008/9 failed to explain 
this change to the policy.  As a result, Mr S has been paying for a policy  since that time that 
does not entirely  meet  his needs.
It follows that I have decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN63395603my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Assurant General Insurance Limited should  refund Mr S the amount he paid each month for 
the PPI from when it became the underwriter  in February 2009. It should also add interest  of 
8% to each  payment from when Mr S paid it until he gets it back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6339560