K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Close Brothers  Limited has unfairly made deductions from the deposit 
shed paid under  a conditional sale agreement for a used vehicle which she rejected as it 
wasnt of a satisfactory quality. 
background
In September  2017 Mrs C acquired a used  van via a conditional sale agreement with Close  
Brothers. The agreement  was for 60 months  for a vehicle that was around two years old and 
had a mileage  of approximately 105,000.
Shortly after taking the van Mrs C took it to another garage for it to be checked. That garage  
told Mrs C that the brakes were  dangerously worn and advised she shouldnt drive it. Mrs C 
agreed to the brakes being  repaired by the garage  and paid £570  for the work. She 
complained to the dealership and it agreed  to pay £175 towards  the costs of repairing the 
brakes. This amount represented  what  the repairs costs wouldve been had the dealership  
carried them  out. Mrs C also had to pay £175 to hire another van while  the repairs  were  
ongoing.
She complained to Close Brothers as she was unhappy at the amount paid by the dealership 
towards the repairs, and also that shed paid out twice for arrangement fees of £300 for the 
conditional sale agreement. Close Brothers didnt uphold her complaint.
In November 2017 faults were found with the vans rear axle. Following an inspection by a 
garage it was agreed that the fault wouldve been  present  at the point  of sale. The dealership  
agreed to take the van back and for Mrs C to reject it. Mrs C returned the van to the 
dealership in early  January 2018.
At the time the van was returned to the dealership it had been driven for a further 5,000 
miles. Close Brothers calculated this as five months  use (1000 miles per month being 
taken as the average use). Mrs C had actually  had the van for three months at this time and 
had paid three monthly instalments under the agreement. Close  Brothers said under  section  
24 of the Consumer Credit Act 2015  it could  make deductions for usage  and as Mrs C had 
only paid for three months use it deducted  the other two months use from her deposit. 
Close Brothers agreed to repay the outstanding  costs of the repairs  to the brakes together 
with a payment  of £305 that Mrs C had made  to the garage for the warranty.
Mrs C disagreed about the deduction from her deposit and complained to us. Our 
investigator upheld  her complaint. She said the conditional sale agreement  made  no 
reference to usage fees or limited  monthly mileage. She said it was unfair  to charge Mrs C 
extra for using  the van on top of the monthly payments shed made.
The investigator said that Close Brothers  should  reimburse Mrs C the £397.94  it had 
deducted from her deposit together with interest.
Close Brothers disagreed  with our investigators view and the complaint has been passed  to 
me. 
my findings
Ref: DRN67204042Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that the van wasnt  of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale and Mrs C could 
reject it. Shed  had the van for three  months and made three  payments under  the agreement  
totalling £596.91. Mrs C says the van spent  a lot of the time off the road, but over the time 
she had it a further 5,000 miles  were driven.
Close Brothers say the number of miles driven  allows it to make a deduction for the usage 
under the Consumer Rights Act (The Act). It says its been fair in using  1,000  miles per 
month as basis for its calculation that Mrs C had the equivalent of five months  use of the van 
when she had it.
I agree  with Close Brothers  view that a charge for usage of the car can be made  but, looking 
at the evidence, Im satisfied that Mrs C has paid this. Mrs C paid for each of the months she 
had the van in her possession  which was a total of £596.91. And these payments are clearly  
for using the van as per The Act.  None of her monthly payments have been reimbursed.
Close Brothers say that Mrs C used the van more than the average driver and so its fair for 
it to deduct a sum to cover this additional mileage. It says the monthly payments made by 
Mrs C only cover driving the van for 1,000 miles per month as the average use is about 
12,000 miles per year.   
Ive seen that the agreement between Close Brothers and Mrs C doesnt  contain any terms 
or conditions  that if the vehicle was to be returned  early, for any reason,  mileage  limits would 
be applied. And this is important as a consumer should always be aware of the terms, 
including any penalties  that will be applied to them, when  they sign and agree to be bound 
by a contract.  Close Brothers arent able to add a penalty clause now to limit the number of 
miles Mrs C could drive  each month.  So I dont think that Close Brothers  was entitled to 
make the deduction  that it has for the number of miles the van covered  while  in Mrs Cs 
possession mileage.
So I dont  think Close Brothers has acted fairly  and reasonably in making  the deduction of a 
further two monthly  instalments from Mrs Cs deposit. Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint and 
require Close Brothers to reimburse her £397.94  together with interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mrs Cs complaint.  I require Close Brothers 
Limited to reimburse  Mrs C the amount of £397.94  together with interest at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6720404