K822xcomplaint
J, a limited company,  complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc sent a payment on its 
behalf to the tax office without a reference number and this resulted in a winding up petition.
background 
J was already subject  to a winding up petition in 2016 from the tax office  for unpaid tax and 
national insurance  liabilities. Its bank  account  was frozen by NatWest. Its representative 
made a statement to the relevant court to say that the outstanding amount could be paid 
from funds held in the bank account. It was agreed  that NatWest  would make the payment 
for J and the tax office asked for the petition to be dismissed. On 17 August 2016  NatWest 
made a payment for £26,504.44 to the correct bank  account at the tax office but did not 
include a reference  number. A further  petition was raised and J had to defend this in court in 
November 2016.  J says that the position  with the payment  was not resolved until February 
2017. It wants NatWest to pay the related  costs  and compensate it for the impact of its 
account being frozen again.
Our investigator recommended that NatWest pay the costs  of the petition of £920  and it 
agreed to do so. But she said that NatWest  could not be responsible for the tax office not 
being able to locate the payment  for so long.  And NatWests involvement had not prompted 
the petition as J was already in dispute  with the tax office. NatWest had provided the details 
of the payment when asked.
J did not agree. Its representative said in summary that NatWest had failed in its duty to J 
here and was responsible for the consequences. It was not right to look at the case after the 
event and J had to pay out significant  costs to avoid being wound  up.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 26 February 2020. I set out below what I 
said. I summarised some of the details and history of what happened here so I could identify 
the issues that were  going to help me assess this.
J had not been paying its tax and national insurance liabilities as they fell due. It accepted in 
a statement  to the court that it had suffered cash flow difficulties leading  to the first winding  
up petition in July 2016. And I knew that it also disputed  the amount owed. In any event a 
first winding  up petition  was made and there  was a court hearing due in August 2016 about  
this. Its bank account was frozen from 1 July 2016.  Before the hearing date J undertook to 
pay the amount  then owing. This payment was debited from its bank account and its account 
became operational on 16 August 2016.
J received notice that the money had not been received. A further petition was made  in 
October 2016. J, through its representative told the tax office that the payment had been 
made. And it contacted NatWest for details of where  the payment had been made to. NatWest 
provided this information. The tax office  seemed to accept this because  on 22 November 2016 
it issued a notice  saying that the amount owing was now only tax that had since become due 
in 2016 and which J said it would and could then pay. And the court adjourned the case  until 
January 2017.  At that time it seems  that notices were again issued with a tax liability  that had 
not taken into account the payment. And the tax office later confirmed in a letter  of October  
2017 that those funds  had only been  allocated in January 2017.
Ref: DRN68041202how the payment  was made by NatWest
NatWest has said that because it wanted to make the payment by BACS  it needed first to put 
the money in an internal suspense account. It then paid the money  from that account. I thought 
that meant  that J did not have clarity about  the payment. Id seen evidence that NatWest had 
been given a reference number for the payment. It did not quote this and I agreed  with J that it 
assumed responsibility  for directing the payment. NatWest reasonably  knew that this was being  
paid into a general tax collection  account.  And I didnt know  how it expected the recipient to 
know what this payment was for and how to apply  it. Had there been any need for clarification 
about these details it was in a position  to contact  J or its representative.
J was able to provide  details of the payment  following a response from NatWest  on 27 October  
2016. And J gave  authority for the tax office to speak to NatWest about the payment. As I 
understood it this then led to the adjustment to the amount  owed and an adjournment of the 
court proceedings.
I didnt consider that NatWest can reasonably be held responsible  for any further issues  in locating 
and applying  the specific payment. The amount,  date of sending  and account it was sent from were 
by then clear  and the reference had effectively been provided manually after the event.
the impact on J.
I agreed with J that this second petition in October  2016 would  most  likely not have  
commenced if the payment had been applied correctly at first. That was not possible without 
the reference number. But I found  that everything  that happened  subsequently with the tax 
office and the further process beyond  November 2016 are matters that J would need to 
pursue with the tax office. I didnt  see any further error by NatWest.
J has provided a schedule of claim which includes all the costs  of its representative over the 
period from July 2016 to October 2017, the payments it says were  made  from borrowed 
funds for staff and the costs of its director  travelling  to court on three  occasions.
Id looked closely  at the professional costs.  Its clear to me that even absent the missing 
payment there remained a dispute  over Js liabilities  and these were  not being  met as they fell 
due. That explains for example  why J agreed  to pay over £15,000  more  in November 2016 
that had also been included in that winding up petition. And as the investigator has said the 
issue with the missing payment did not occur  in isolation and had followed an earlier petition. 
Having said that based on the invoices Id seen from the representative  I was satisfied that 
invoice numbers 229a-17 (£320) and 229b-17  (£220) fairly related to specific work in dealing  
with the commencement  of the second  petition. I said I wouldnt be awarding any costs for 
bringing this complaint itself which we dont typically recognise or think it necessary for a 
professional to be involved. The issue here is relatively narrow  and although  a substantial 
amount of detail has been given about  the background that had not assisted me greatly.
I was unclear why costs  for the payments to employees during the second period when the 
bank account  was frozen are part of a claim. I accepted  that J made arrangements 
including by personal borrowing through family of the director to pay such  costs of over 
£13,000 during  this period. Any borrowing has been  paid back and clearly the staff involved 
were recompensed.  I didnt doubt  that this caused  some inconvenience for J which I said I 
would come to.
Ref: DRN68041203J also says that the director travelled to attend  court in London on three  occasions.  I could 
see why he would want to do so given the future  of J was in jeopardy.  For the reasons  Id 
given I said I was only going to be allowing for one of those visits relating to the adjournment 
in November 2016 and so Id divide the total costs claimed of £825 by three  to give £275. I 
would award the costs  of the petition itself of £920.
I said that I knew the director was distressed by what happened  and later became ill. I was 
sorry to hear that but I couldnt consider the impact on him personally in a complaint by J. I 
could consider inconvenience  to J though  linked  to the bank account being  frozen  as Id said 
and I judged this fairly  to be £250.
Combining all these  elements in my provisional view NatWest should  pay J a total of £1,985
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest said it had no comments to make about  my provisional decision. Neither J nor its 
representative made any comments having been reminded about the deadline for comments.
As a result I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require National Westminster  Bank  
Plc to pay J £1,985.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6804120