K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that TSB Bank plc didnt  assist him when money was fraudulently taken from 
his account. He also feels that theyve  discriminated against him. To put things right hed like 
them to apologise,  refund him the money,  and compensate him appropriately.
background
On 21 October 2017 Mr L contacted TSB as he could see that a transaction was pending for 
£147.97 to leave his account  and paid to an insurance company. He said that he hadnt 
authorised this payment, and asked TSB not to let the money be taken from his account. 
TSB told him that they couldnt cancel the earmark against the funds.  But they did record a 
fraud indicator against his debit card, and issue him with a new one. 
The payment was debited from Mr Ls account  on 24 October  2017.  And although he 
received a credit back from the insurance  company for the same  amount that day, hes 
unhappy as he feels TSB should have cancelled the payment when he asked them.
When he complained,  TSB explained  that they need  the merchant to confirm  to them directly 
that they wont be taking the funds before they can remove an earmark.  They  also noted that 
Mr L had raised several concerns with them about  their service recently, and said that he 
might want  to consider  alternative banking arrangements.  They  said that if he chose to 
continue his relationship with them they hoped they would be able to provide the service he 
expects. But that if this wasnt the case they would review, and possibly end the banking 
relationship.
Mr L is very unhappy with this response. Hes described it as inaccurate and deceptive. He 
feels TSB have discriminated against him, and has suggested theyve breached the Equality  
Act 2010.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He couldnt  see that Mr L 
had suffered any actual  financial  loss as the insurance company had returned the money to 
his account. And he didnt  feel that TSB had discriminated against Mr L, though he felt their 
response to him could  have been worded differently. 
Mr L disagrees. He feels that as a matter of law TSB should have frozen  his account and 
stopped the transaction.  And he remains unhappy  with their response to his complaint. So 
the case has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr L will be disappointed, but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator  did here, and for broadly the same 
reasons.
We are an informal  dispute resolution service.  Whilst  relevant law and regulations are one 
of the things I take into account, my role is to consider whether I feel TSB have treated Mr L 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances  of this individual case.
Ref: DRN62473902Its clear Mr L did not want this payment to be taken from his account. But as our investigator 
said, the funds  were returned  to him by the insurance company the same  day. So I cant see 
that he ultimately suffered any financial loss as a result. I cant be certain why the insurance 
company debited the money and returned it to Mr L. But this complaint has been brought 
against the bank, not the insurance company. So I can only look at the actions of TSB.
TSB have  explained that once funds are earmarked  for a payment, they are controlled  by the 
merchant. They can only remove the earmark at the direct instruction  of the merchant. 
However, if and when an earmarked payment is actually debited from the account, they can 
follow their disputed transaction  process.  Fortunately they didnt need  to do this here as the 
funds were returned to Mr L. 
TSB have  also told us that they did act to help Mr L when he reported  that a potentially 
fraudulent transaction had been made.  The payments werent  applied  directly to his account 
when they were posted because TSB put a fraud indicator on the debit card used to 
generate the payment. But as they could see that the insurance company had also 
processed a transaction to credit  the money back to Mr Ls account they allowed the 
transactions to go through.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr L feels that TSB should  have  frozen the account at his request, I cant  
see that they acted  unreasonably here. I understand it was frustrating for Mr L that the funds  
were allowed to leave  his account,  but they were returned to him promptly. So he was 
ultimately left in the same financial position he would have been in if the transactions  hadnt 
been made. 
Ive looked at the final response letter TSB sent to Mr L about  this matter, and I understand 
why he was upset  by it. But I dont think TSB meant  to cause him any offence. They 
explained in the letter that if either  party wished to end their banking relationship, they could 
do so. But they gave him the option to continue banking with them  at this time.
I agree  this could have  perhaps been  expressed a little more considerately.  But both parties 
are entitled  to review  their banking relationship if either of them  is unhappy. I cant  see any 
evidence that TSB have  discriminated  against  Mr L or treated him any differently  based on a 
characteristic protected  by the Equality Act. So whilst I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed  
by this decision, I wont be asking TSB to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank  plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6247390