K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) didnt tell him when he settled
his debt that it had been  sold to a debt collection agency.
background
Mr D had an account with APS from September 2016. The account  charged a monthly
subscription of £5.95.
In September  2017, APS arranged for Mr D to have a £100  overdraft facility which  increased
the monthly fee to £10. And by October 2017  Mr D had exceeded his overdraft.
In December 2017 APS discussed  the setting up of a payment plan for Mr D but at this time
Mr D said he was able to make payments to clear his arrears. But in January 2018 Mr D
became homeless.
APS removed the overdraft facility from Mr Ds account in June 2018. This left Mr D with an
outstanding balance of £110. And in October 2018 APS sent a default notice to Mr D
advising him he had to pay off the balance no later than 31 December 2018.
But on 23 December 2018,  APS sold the debt to a debt purchaser. On 28 December 2018,
when Mr D contacted  APS he said he wasnt  told his debt had been  sold, only that he had to
pay the debt in full which he did.
Mr D is unhappy as after hed paid his debt in full the debt purchaser asked him to settle the
debt with them.
APS accepted Mr D should have been told his debt had been sold. And apologised for this
and offered £40 for the trouble and upset caused. But said it had a responsibility for correctly
recording account activity,  and Mr D had been  in arrears for several months.
Mr D referred  his complaint to us as he said this had caused him considerable distress and
had damaged his credit  file.
Our investigator said that APS had agreed  it should  have told Mr D it had sold on his debt,
but asked that it pay £100  for trouble and upset.
APS disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October  2019 which  said:
I have asked APS to provide further  evidence for me to consider but to date this hasnt been
sent. So, Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im thinking of upholding
Mr Ds complaint.
Ours is an inquisitorial remit which means we will look at what we feel a business should
have looked at when dealing with a complaint. This means we are expected to do more than
just look at a complaint  as its written or explained  to us. We must think about what  lies at the
Ref: DRN69730002heart of a complaint and look at the whole picture.
So, when looking at Mr Ds complaint Ive looked at the crux of the matter which  wasnt just
that his debt was sold but that he had difficulty  in repaying the debt.
Mr Ds account was set up in September 2016; his only income was a monthly  benefit
payment. His outgoings were generally  for food, mobile phone  and car insurance and Mr D
kept within his means  but his balance at the end of each month was often zero or close  to
zero. The account  did accrue  a monthly  subscription charge of £5.95.
In August  2017,  the first sign Mr D was having any difficulty was the rejection of a direct
debit which  APS at first charged  Mr D a £15 fee. When  someone  is in financial difficulty I
would expect the business to treat them  positively and sensitively. Looking to provide help
by way of freezing any charges or payment holidays. APS did take positive action by
refunding the direct  debit rejection fee, it had charged.
But in September 2017  APS arranged for Mr D to have an overdraft facility of £100. It
charged an overdraft arrangement fee of £20 and each following month an overdraft fee of
£10. So, Ive looked to see whether Mr D could afford this and whether  APS had been
irresponsible in lending  it to him.
Unaffordable lending
When assessing a customer  for lending, there arent set checks which  a lender  has to do.
But Id expect them to perform checks which are proportionate in each case, taking  account
of things like the size of the loan, the ability  of the customer  to repay  and what they know
about the customer.
CONC 5.2.4G (2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of assessments.  And it
makes it clear that the risk of credit  not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount of
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial situation.
We dont expect lenders  to tell us the details of their lending criteria, but we do expect them
to be able to show  us (by providing evidence)  that they reasonably assessed a customers
ability to repay what they were borrowing. As outlined above APS hasnt provided me with
any evidence of how it had checked this. So, Ive based my decision on Mr Ds
circumstances at the time.
Lending is unaffordable  if its clear the customers disposable  income  wasnt enough to make
the payments  for the borrowing at the time it was taken out. And I can see from Mr Ds
account that he had little to no disposable  income.
From looking  at the way Mr D ran his account I dont think he had sufficient disposable
income to cover the additional charge applied to his account for the overdraft facility.  As this
had increased  from £5.95  to £10.00,  a difference of £4.05, which  Mr D didnt have, as
outlined above  he was living to his full means and so didnt have enough disposable income
to cover this additional payment. The fee was being paid back out of the overdraft itself. Also
Mr D didnt have any available funds  to repay  any of the overdraft facility he used.
So, I dont think Mr D could afford the overdraft facility that APS arranged  for him.
Irresponsible lending
Ref: DRN69730003But its not just about whether Mr D could afford the credit or not its whether there is another
reason APS shouldnt have lent to him. Low income consumers can be particularly
vulnerable to income and expenditure shocks.  And Mr D later became homeless.
I can see that APS tried to assist Mr D when he told them  he was struggling  to repay the
outstanding overdraft and overdraft fees by freezing the charge on his account. But I think
Mr Ds financial  difficulties resulted from the arrangement of an overdraft he couldnt  repay.
And this was evident as he exceeded  his overdraft within a month  of it being arranged. And
he wasnt able to make any repayments  to clear  the debt from then until December 2018.
As the repayment  was unsustainable, I think APS was irresponsible  in lending  to Mr D.
credit file
When a payment isnt made by its agreed  time the account may be reported  to a credit
reference agency. When this continues over a period of time it may result  with the lender
defaulting the account.
It isnt in dispute that Mr D was struggling to clear  the outstanding  balance and that a default
notice was sent to him by APS. The default  notice  gave Mr D until 31 December to pay the
outstanding balance and he did this. APS has confirmed that as the payment was made
before the requested date, it didnt  report a default  to the credit  reference agencies. But the
late payments over several  months  would  have been evident  to other lenders.
As I think  the overdraft  facility shouldnt have been given to Mr D I think any record and
adverse information  associated  with the lending should be removed from his credit  file.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration as he thinks this information has meant  when hes
applied for other credit  hes been  declined, or the premiums have been increased meaning
he couldnt afford them. But while that is possible, I cant know  what weight would  be
attached by a lender to any adverse information  as this is dependent  on each lenders
criterion. So, I dont think there is enough evidence to show  this has caused Mr D actual
financial loss.
APS sold Mr Ds debt to a debt purchaser  before the end of the period given to him in his
default notice.  APS has accepted that it should have  told Mr D his debt had been sold and
has apologised and offered £40 for the trouble  and upset this caused.
But think  the main  cause of trouble and upset  to Mr D was in knowing he had a debt he
was struggling to repay, added to which, after hed paid it, being  chased to repay this debt by
a debt purchaser. It wasnt until March 2019 that Mr D was told his debt had been sold on
when it shouldnt have  been. So, I think APS should  compensate Mr D a further £210  so a
total of £250 for the trouble and upset all of this caused.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr D accepted my provisional  decision,  but APS have made  no comment.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to:
Ref: DRN69730004refund  the remaining  £10 overdraft  fee that had been applied  to Mr Ds account for
the arrangement  and use of the overdraft  facility;
remove any record and adverse information held on Mr Ds credit file for the debt;
and
pay Mr D a total of £250 for the trouble and upset  caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019. 
Anne Scarr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6973000