K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) has failed to remove two defaults for accounts 
he has disputed.  
background
Mr L contacted Lowell after noticing  a number of defaults on his credit file. He was informed  
Lowell held six accounts in his name for which it was seeking repayment. Mr L explained 
that one account wasnt  in his name  and he had no memory of any of the other accounts. He 
asked Lowell to provide  copies of the credit agreements to prove these accounts were  his. 
He also informed Lowell he wasnt in a position to pay any of these debts.
On 5 September 2018, Lowell issued  a final response. It said there was no evidence to 
suggest Mr L wasnt liable for the outstanding  balances but as an impasse had been 
reached, it agreed to zero the balances on the account but not to remove the defaults. It 
went onto say, if Mr L could provide further  information it would review the matter further.
On 2 November  2018, Lowell carried out a further investigation into the issues  Mr L raised  
and provided a second response. It acknowledged  a mistake had been made with regard to 
one of the accounts. It was in fact registered  under another name, which  Mr Ls credit  report  
showed as an alias. The original lender had been  unable to provide sufficient information to 
confirm Mr Ls liability for this outstanding balance, and as such, Lowell had removed it and 
the associated  default from his credit  file.
Lowell went on to identify  issues  with three  of the other accounts from a different original 
lender. It said there had been a change of ownership  on these accounts and the original 
lender hadnt been able to provide information as to the reasons why. Lowell was concerned 
the actions taken on the account indicated Mr L may not be liable for the outstanding 
balances and decided  to zero the balances and remove them and the associated  defaults 
from Mr Ls credit file.
The remaining  two accounts were from a third original lender, Ill call P. Lowell said the first 
account was opened with Mr Ls current address details in November 2011, and payments 
were made on the account until November 2013. The second account was opened  in 
December 2011,  again at Mr Ls current address and payments were  made  until November 
2013. The original  lender  provided copies of the credit agreements. Lowell provided this 
information to Mr L but it agreed to partially satisfy the outstanding  balances to show it had 
closed the accounts and didnt intend to pursue Mr L for any further repayments. But, it didnt  
agree to remove the associated defaults  for these two accounts as it found  sufficient 
evidence to show they had been correctly recorded.
Mr L remained dissatisfied  and brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into things for Mr L. She found sufficient evidence to show Mr L had taken  out the credit 
agreements and so was responsible for the outstanding balance. She agreed with Lowell 
that there  was evidence  to show the defaults had been recorded  correctly and so she 
couldnt ask it to remove them. But, in recording the accounts as partially satisfied and 
closing the accounts with them, it had acted fairly  and reasonably  and so she didnt ask it to 
do anything further.  
Ref: DRN66840182Mr L disagreed. He says he hasnt  been provided with anything to show he signed  the credit  
agreement or made the loan application.  He didnt think  the assessment was fair and so he 
asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information provided 
by both parties afresh. Having done so Ive reached the same view as our investigator.  I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr L , Ill explain why.
Firstly, I appreciate Mr L has been waiting sometime for a decision for and I thank him for his 
patience. Id like to reassure Mr L, Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate  
my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed  to take it on board and think  about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
From the information provided, I can see Lowell Portfolio I Ltd purchased  six accounts from 
three different original  lenders  between August 2014  and September  2017. It was assigned  
the rights  and benefits of these accounts  in their entirely and took over the reporting of 
defaults to show  the change  in ownership. It wrote  to Mr L to notify him of a legal  change  in 
ownership and appointed  Lowell Financial to manage recovery of the balances.
From what  I understand, Mr L contacted Lowell in or around  July 2018 to raise concerns with 
information on his credit file. The relevant industry rules  require  Lowell to take reasonable 
steps to verify the accuracy  and adequacy  of the available data to ensure that the true 
customer was pursued  for the debt. Im satisfied that Lowell attempted  to gain the relevant 
information to satisfy that these accounts were  Mr Ls responsibility. When this information  
was not forthcoming from two of the original  lenders  for four of the outstanding accounts, 
Lowell rightly reduced the balances to zero and removed the associated defaults.
With regard to the last two accounts from lender P. Ive looked  closely at the credit 
agreements provided.  They  contain  personal  information pertaining to Mr L and appear to 
contain his signature. I appreciate Mr L would like me to authenticate the application and the 
process used, such as providing  any photo  identification attached to the application but this 
is not my role. Im not acting in the role of regulator  here, that would be the remit of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) nor am I able to comment on a businesss internal 
procedures. In this case, Im required to determine  if there is sufficient evidence to suggest 
that Mr L is responsible  for the outstanding  balances on these accounts. The agreements 
contain personal information pertaining to Mr L, his name and address, and appear to 
contain his signature. I understand Mr L doesnt  remember taking out the accounts, but from 
what Ive seen Im persuaded its more likely than not, these loans  are Mr Ls responsibility. 
I can see Lowell has marked the accounts as partially satisfied and doesnt  intend to 
pursue Mr L for the outstanding balance. Whilst I understand Mr L would also like the 
defaults removed,  Im afraid I cant ask Lowell to do so. This is because lenders that supply 
data to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) are required to ensure that the data is accurate, 
up to date and meets agreed quality standards. There is sufficient evidence  here to show  
Mr L took out these  loans  and as such the recording  of the default is correct.
I appreciate this has been a worrying time for Mr L, but once he brought his concerns to 
Lowell It acted swiftly to address  his concerns and acted on the information provided by the 
Ref: DRN66840183original lenders. Im persuaded  Lowell has acted fairly and reasonably in this matter  and so 
Im not going  to ask it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 August 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6684018