K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that Stagemount Limited (trading as QuidMarket) lent money to her that 
she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss D took out three loans with QuidMarket  in 2013. 
Loan Date Amount Repaid
1 23 May 2013 £200 31 May 2013
2 10 June 2013 £250 28 June 2013
3 18 July 2013 £300 28 February 2013
Miss D says that before the loans were provided adequate assessments werent carried  out. 
She says this resulted in her receiving loans she couldnt afford  to repay which  created a 
spiral of debt.
QuidMarket says that before the loans  were provided it assessed  the information  Miss D 
gave in her applications and carried out a credit  check. It says its checks  were in line with 
the relevant regulations and that the credit  checks showed Miss D didnt have  any 
outstanding loans.
QuidMarket noted  that Miss Ds borrowing  increased with each loan and that her income 
changed. It says it could have made further  enquiries before providing the third loan and 
offered to refund the interest on this loan.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in regard  to loans two 
and three.  She said proportionate checks would have shown Miss D wouldnt have been 
able to repay loans  two and three  in a sustainable  way. The adjudicator recommended  that 
QuidMarket refund interest  and charges on loans two and three, with 8% interest,  and 
amend her credit file. 
QuidMarket didnt agree. It said Miss D didnt tell it about her other loans and they didnt 
appear on a credit search. It said that it relied on the information  available  to it at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuidMarket needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN60278192But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuidMarket should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuidMarket was required to establish 
whether Miss D could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of course  the loan payments 
being affordable  on this basis  might  be an indication a consumer could sustainably  make 
their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically  follow this is the case. 
At the time of these  loans  the relevant guidance was provided by the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT). This set out the need  to make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower  can 
afford to meet repayments in a sustainable  manner. This referred to issues such  as being 
able to the make the repayments  without  undue difficulties  throughout  the life of the 
agreement and without  having to realise  security or assets. It then further  sets out that 
without undue difficulty means without having  to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
Miss D took out her first loan in May 2013. The loan was for £200. Before the loan was 
provided QuidMarket  says it gathered information  on Miss Ds income.  It says she declared 
a monthly income  of £1,500 and a disposable income of £500. I havent seen any 
information regarding  Miss Ds declared expenses  as this doesnt show  on her application  
forms. However based on a disposable  income  of £500, this would suggest  monthly  
expenses of £1,000.
Given the loan amount  and what was apparent about Miss Ds circumstances, I think  the 
checks carried out before this loan was provided  were proportionate. There wasnt  anything  
in the information provided  or the information QuidMarket shouldve been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve  been proportionate to carry out further checks. Therefore I do not uphold 
this complaint in regard  to this loan.
Miss Ds income reduced before the second loan was provided. The loan amount increased. 
QuidMarket says Miss D said there  was no change,  aside from her income, in her personal  
and financial  information. This would suggest  her expenses remained the same as 
previously. Had this been the case then she would not have  been  left with sufficient 
disposable income, based on her reduced income,  to make her repayments. 
Ref: DRN60278193Given the reduction in income and the increase  in loan amount I think  further checks should  
have taken place  before this loan was provided.  Had further checks  taken place QuidMarket 
would have realised  this loan wasnt sustainably affordable  for Miss D.
QuidMarket has said that further checks could have  taken  place  before  the third loan was 
provided and has offered  to refund the interest  on this loan. I think  this is reasonable.
Overall, I dont  think that loans two and three  should  have  been  provided and so I uphold  this 
complaint in regard  to these loans. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  two and three.  Stagemount 
Limited (trading as QuidMarket)  should:
refund  all interest and charges that Miss D paid on loans two and three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans two and three from Miss Ds credit file.
*HMRC requires  QuidMarket to take off tax from this interest.  If Miss D asks for a certificate 
showing how much  tax QuidMarkets taken off, it should provide this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6027819