K820x#14complaint
A representative, on behalf  of Ms C complains about a commercial  fixed rate loan taken out 
with Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS).
background
Ms C is unhappy with a commercial fixed rate loan taken  out with BOS in 2006,  which  had a 
10 year term.  This loan was originally  drawn down by a partnership but novated  into Ms Cs 
name in 2014.  Ms C in particular doesnt  feel the potential break costs associated  to this 
product were  clearly  explained at the point of sale.
An adjudicator has already considered this matter. He didnt feel this was a complaint which 
he could uphold. The adjudicator acknowledged  that he hadnt seen evidence to show  that 
BOS had properly  explained break costs to Ms C at the point of sale.  But even  if Ms C had 
been provided with clearer  information,  he still felt the same  fixed rate product would have 
been chosen for the same term. 
Unhappy with the adjudicators findings,  this case has been referred to me to now consider. I 
can assure both parties that Ive looked at all the evidence which  has been submitted. And 
this includes the additional submissions each  party  has made  since the adjudicator  issued 
their view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to say that I too am unable to 
uphold this complaint for reasons in line with those already  expressed  by the adjudicator.  
Like the adjudicator,  Im not persuaded BOS  did enough to explain the potential  magnitude  
of break  costs if the borrowing  was to be repaid early. However I must decide what  I think  
Ms C would have done instead, if clearer information had been given. 
Overall I feel Ms C would  still have proceeded to fix for the term she did. Im aware  that fixing  
the interest rate wasnt a condition  of the borrowing. The borrowing was initially drawn down 
in 2005 on a variable rate and then fixed in 2006 for a term of 10 years. From the evidence  
Ive seen it seems Ms C was happy to fix the interest rate on the borrowing and understood 
the benefits this would give in terms of certainty of the monthly outgoings. Even  if 
discussions surrounding fixed  rate loans were  led by BOS, Im not sure I can accept that Ms 
C had no appetite for entering into such products. 
Ive given a great deal of thought to the representatives submissions surrounding potentially 
repaying the borrowing early and a relatively  new business needing a degree  of flexibility if 
the business didnt succeed. But I also think a business values the certainty that a fixed rate 
can afford them. BOS appear  to have previously offered a 5 year fixed rate loan. So it seems 
as though various loan terms were discussed and its likely Ms C ultimately chose the longer 
term due to the rate being more  favourable.  Ms Cs representative has explained that with  a 
term of 10 years, there  was a realistic  likelihood of the loan being terminated before 
maturity.  I do appreciate  the fixed rate loan was novated in 2014  but ultimately the product 
did then run its full course until 2016.  
Ref: DRN67459732BOS feels this complaint  has been brought with the benefit of hindsight.  Im minded  to agree 
with them.  The fixed rate loan ran according to its schedule and a letter of dissatisfaction  
was only received about this product over a year after the fixed rate loan had matured. The 
representative for Ms C has stressed that just because a complaint wasnt raised straight 
away doesnt mean there wasnt  cause for complaint or that Ms C wasnt  dissatisfied. After  
careful consideration Im still of the opinion that I wouldve expected  a complaint to have 
been raised sooner.
As the adjudicator has already explained, there is no requirement for BOS to disclose any 
information surrounding commission paid in respect  of this product. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative, 
on behalf of Ms C, to accept or reject  my decision before 26 July 2019.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6745973