K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc recorded a default against her name 
without first informing her that it intended  to do so.
background
Ms B held a joint NatWest  account  with her then husband Mr B, who left the family home in 
December 2016.  By February 2017  Ms B says she had stopped using the account  having 
transferred all of her financial commitments  and salary  to a new account.
NatWest continued  to send correspondence  to both account holders at Ms Bs address, 
which was the only one it had on its system.
In March 2017 NatWest  agreed a repayment arrangement with Mr B. Ms B complains that 
she was not informed of this and her agreement wasnt sought.
In May 2017  Ms B asked  NatWest to remove her name from the account. The bank refused 
as the account  was overdrawn and both account holders were held to be jointly and 
severally liable for the debt.
Mr B failed to maintain  the agreed repayments  and in August 2017 Ms B received letters 
about the overdraft and about the unsatisfactory  operation of the account. She says she 
contacted NatWest and was reassured  that it was pursuing matters with Mr B and that she 
need not worry or do anything further.
NatWest says that in addition  to these letters, it also sent her a default notice. Ms B says she 
didnt receive this.
A default was subsequently recorded against  Ms B in August 2017.
In February 2018,  as the debt had not reduced, NatWest sent Ms B a formal demand for 
repayment of the outstanding balance. Ms B contacted the bank who told her that she could 
avoid a default if she cleared the excess borrowing, covered  the interest payments and paid 
money into the account regularly.
In March 2018, NatWest  transferred the account  to its recoveries team  as there  had been no 
reduction in the outstanding balance. And in April the account passed to a third party debt 
recovery agent.
Ms B says it was only when she was subsequently contacted by the debt recovery agent  that 
she discovered that a default had been  registered  against her name in August 2017.  She 
complained to the bank saying that it hadnt  informed her that it intended to default the 
account. She also complained about  the incorrect information shed be given by NatWest 
staff and about the way it had handled  the account  since she and Mr B had separated.
NatWest apologised  for the incorrect information it had given Ms B in February 2018 when it 
explained how she could  avoid a default  despite  it having recorded a default  against her 
some six months earlier. In compensation it paid her £50. But with respect to all of the other 
points she had raised, NatWest concluded that it had done nothing wrong.
Ms B remained dissatisfied  with NatWests responses and so she referred her complaint to us. 
Ref: DRN64459392Our adjudicator noted that Ms B had been diligent in keeping  in touch with NatWest  about 
the outstanding balance  and in trying to ensure that it would have no adverse implications for 
her. She also appeared to have done  what she could to encourage Mr B to deal with the 
matter despite  the breakdown of their relationship.
But the fact nevertheless remained  that as it was a joint account both account holders were 
responsible for the debt. And after six months,  when  an agreed repayment arrangement with 
Mr B had not been maintained, NatWest  was entitled to default the account. This inevitably 
meant a default  being recorded against both names.
Ms B says she didnt  receive NatWests default notice. Our adjudicator said that the banks 
internal records showed  that it had sent Ms B such a notice. This being the case he couldnt 
hold NatWest responsible for the fact that Ms B didnt appear to have received it. 
He agreed that Ms B was entirely justified in complaining about  NatWests incorrect advice in 
February 2018 when  it had explained  how she could avoid a default even though it had 
already recorded  a default. But he considered the £50 compensation NatWest  had already  
paid to Ms B to be in line with the amount he would otherwise have recommended.
In conclusion he didnt  believe that NatWest had made any errors  in dealing with the account; 
and that the £50 paid to Ms B as compensation for the incorrect  advice was fair and reasonable.
Ms B disagreed saying that she was certain she hadnt received the August 2017  default 
notice. She also queried why it would have been sent at the same time as letters asking her 
to deal with the overdraft.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B finds herself in the unfortunate,  but far from uncommon position  of being held responsible 
for a debt which she considers is not hers. But Im afraid that this is a generally  unavoidable 
consequence of holding a joint account when there  is an outstanding balance.  And unless  one 
or other  or both - of the account holders agrees to and maintains a repayment  plan a default 
against both of the account holders names is usually the inevitable outcome. 
Mr B does indeed appear to have set up such an arrangement, but didnt then make the 
required repayments. Ms B complains  that she wasnt consulted or informed  about  this, but 
as the account  was set up on the basis of either  to sign (rather  than both)  NatWest  did 
nothing wrong  in agreeing a repayment  arrangement with Mr B without  involving Ms B.
Ms B says she didnt  receive the default  notice NatWest says it sent to her, but Im afraid 
that isnt sufficient for me to conclude that the bank didnt send it. NatWests  internal notes 
record that it did, which is all it was required to do. 
Ms B has also argued on grounds of logic that NatWest wouldnt send her a default notice at 
the same  time as other letters asking her to do something about the overdraft. But in my 
view it is entirely  possible  that it should have done so. The default notice is merely a 
statement of the banks intentions to record a default 28 days  later if some  action isnt taken 
on the debt. It is in my opinion therefore reasonable that at the same time NatWest  would 
have sent Ms B other letters encouraging her to make contact and agree a way forward.  
Ref: DRN64459393Having registered  the default NatWest continued  to take action to recover  the debt. But 
when Ms B rang in February  2018, having received  a letter  about the still outstanding 
balance, she should have been  told then that a default had been recorded.  It is regrettable  
that staff seemed unware  of this and instead gave Ms B advice on how to avoid that 
happening. This didnt affect Ms Bs financial position, as both she and Mr B continued to 
have an obligation  to repay  the debt, but it nevertheless encouraged her to believe that a 
default might  still be avoidable, when it wasnt. NatWest has paid Ms B £50 in compensation 
for its incorrect advice, which I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In summary  therefore, and whilst  recognising the efforts Ms B made  to avoid a default 
against her name, Im afraid  that I cannot conclude  that NatWest has done anything wrong. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6445939