K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) hasnt supported  his business (the 
company).
background
Mr F is the director  of a catering business and has brought a complaint on behalf of the 
company. Mr F requested an overdraft facility to assist  with repaying loan arrears and a 
credit card, but Lloyds declined. He complained about the service and wanted Lloyds to visit 
the business premises for it to understand the business better, but Lloyds refused his 
request. In addition, Mr F says he was told all interest and charges would be waived until he 
cleared his loan arrears.  But he has been  charged since then and Mr F doesnt  think Lloyds 
has dealt with the matter properly.  
Mr F referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked  into the complaint and 
didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong  as it was entitled  to refuse further  borrowing as 
part of its commercial judgment and attending business premises wasnt  something  it 
offered. There wasnt any evidence that Lloyds had agreed to waive all interest  and charges 
and so our investigator  didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything further. 
Mr F disagreed and said he would provide further  evidence and information but hasnt done 
so. And so the case has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  and largely for the same  reasons as explained  by the 
investigator. 
The company went through  some changes which resulted in cashflow problems and loan 
arrears. Mr F told Lloyds  the company was due a VAT refund which  would be used to clear 
the arrears. Lloyds agreed that the arrears could be paid when the refund was received 
which was due in January  2018.  However, the refund didnt transpire and the arrears  
continued to accrue.  
Mr F asked  for an overdraft facility to assist with clearing the arrears whilst waiting for the 
refund and other funds, but Lloyds  explained this wouldnt be possible after having  reviewed 
how the account had been  run. 
Ive seen Lloyds  contact notes and its response to Mr Fs complaint which  explain that Mr F 
was told an overdraft facility wouldnt be possible.  The reasons given included a number of 
returned direct debits, loan arrears  and the way the account had been run. There were 
occasions when  there  wasnt  enough money available  to cover payments. 
To assist the company  and as a gesture of goodwill, Lloyds gave extra time for the arrears to 
be cleared and waived some  interest  and charges as a result of arrears and missed 
payments. It didnt immediately transfer  the borrowing  to its recoveries department  and didnt 
issue formal demands  for repayment of the loan and credit  card.  It then considered a loan to 
consolidate the debts which was eventually  agreed, for the benefit of the company.
Ref: DRN68742902Mr F wanted Lloyds to visit the business premises, but it explained this wasnt  something it 
offered to its customers and if Mr F wanted  that service,  he should consider transferring  to 
an alternative bank  which  did offer that service.  
Lloyds is entitled  to decline further  borrowing and Ive seen that it has clearly explained its 
reasons to Mr F. And so I dont think it has acted  unfairly or unreasonably. Lloyds also 
waived some interest and charges for the company whilst it was in difficulty. I havent seen 
any evidence that it agreed to waive  all interest  and charges. In relation to visiting  the 
business premises, this isnt part of the service offered  by Lloyds and so I dont think it has 
done anything  wrong here. It is entitled  to decide which  services  and features it offers.  
Mr F said he would  provide further evidence and information in support of his position but 
hasnt done so. So Im unable  to consider anything else and have  based  my decision on the 
evidence and information available to me. 
Although I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed  with my decision,  Im satisfied that Lloyds 
has provided a clear explanation about why it couldnt  provide an overdraft facility and acted 
fairly in waiving some interest and charges. And so I dont  think it needs to do anything 
further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6874290