K820x#14Complaint
Miss W complains that Lex Autolease Ltd sent a letter saying  her hire agreement account  
was in arrears after it had told her on several  occasions that her account had been settled.
Background
Miss W entered into a hire agreement with Lex Autolease in July 2015. In September 2018, 
she called  Lex Autolease to discuss purchasing the car and says she was advised to wait 
until 11 October 2018 when the termination amount would be lower.  She understood from 
the call that she would  pay the early  termination fee and the purchase price  and this would 
conclude the sale. She says she received  the monthly hire fee invoice for October and called 
to discuss this and was told a mistake  had been made. A complaint was raised and she says 
she was told her account would be credited one months rental. 
On 11 October 2018, Miss W called Lex Autolease  and paid the purchase price for the car 
and says she thought her account was then settled. However a payment for £17.13 was 
debited from her account in November 2018.  She says she was told this was due to the 
early termination fee being £462.25  and only a months rental of £445.13 had been debited. 
So she had to pay the balance. Miss W says she accepted this and it was confirmed  that her 
account was up to date and that she could cancel her direct debit. 
In December 2018, received a letter saying her account was in arrears and that she needed 
to make a payment  of £445.15  (a months rental). On 18 December  2018,  she spoke with 
Lex Autolease and was told that a note would be put on her account to stop any further  
arrears contact and that a credit would be raised  for the outstanding amount. However she 
says she was then contacted again and told the rental fee had been  offset  against  the 
termination fee and a second complaint was raised.  This complaint wasnt upheld.  She says 
she asked about  the call recordings but was told these werent available. She says these 
calls confirmed that she was told her account was up to date. 
Lex Autolease says that Miss W entered into a hire agreement in 2015 for a period of 42 
months. In July 2018 she adjusted the annual mileage amount. It says that Miss W raised a 
complaint in December 2018 as she had been  told her account had an outstanding balance  
of £445.13. It says she was told incorrectly in September  there would be no additional 
charges in addition to the early termination  fee. It says it upheld Miss Ws complaint  and 
confirmed that the termination fee was due in full but raised a credit  for £445.13  for the 
additional rental fee that had been charged. It says this left Miss W owing £462.26. Miss W 
then paid £17.13 reducing the outstanding balance to £445.13.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Lex Autolease  had admitted it 
misadvised Miss W in regard to the remaining balance but that the terms of her hire 
agreement set out what would become payable in the event  of the agreement being 
terminated. She thought it would be reasonable that Miss W would expect additional charges 
when she terminated  the agreement and there  was no evidence  to say the calculations  
made by Lex Autolease  are incorrect. 
Miss W didnt accept  our investigators view.  She said her complaint was about the 
information she received on the calls and was disappointed these werent  part of the 
assessment. She reiterated that she had been  told her account  had been  settled and she 
could stop her direct debit  and was then contacted to say her account was in arrears. She 
agreed her account was in arrears looking at the payment history but said she had made 
Ref: DRN62440342calls to Lex Autolease to  ensure her account  was up to date and been told that it was. She 
noted that our investigator has said the increase in rental  amounts  was due to the early 
termination but said this was due to her increasing her mileage allowance.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Miss W is upset that the recordings of the calls she had with Lex Autolease  
havent been provided. These have been  requested and unfortunately not located. I have 
therefore considered  the other  information  provided in this case and I find that this is 
sufficient for me to make  a decision.
Miss W decided to buy the car she had previously leased from Lex Autolease.  She called to 
discuss this and was told that she would only need  to pay the purchase price  and the early  
termination fee. The hire agreement set out that the agreement could be terminated early on 
the payment of certain amounts. 
I can see why this situation has been upsetting and although I havent been  able to listen  to 
the calls Miss W has referred to I accept her comments  that she understood her account to 
have been closed. However, I have looked through the information and can see that Miss W 
was sent an invoice dated 1 October for a rental payment of £445.13  to be taken at the end 
of that month.  This was disputed  as Miss W had been told that aside from the termination 
fee and purchase  fee she wouldnt have further charges. In the final response  letter  dated 
16 October 2018, Lex Autolease agrees to refund this amount  confirming  that Miss W was 
told she would only need to pay the early  termination and purchase fee. 
Miss W was sent an invoice for the early  termination  fee on 16 October 2018 which was set 
at £462.26 payable at end November  2018. Given this and the information  provided to 
Miss W on the call and in the final response  letter I think it reasonable that she should have 
been aware that this payment would be due.
On 22 October 2018, a credit was applied to Miss Ws account for £445.13  to reflect  the 
agreed refund in the October final response letter. However this amount  was set off against 
the termination fee and so payment of only £17 13 was left and this was taken in the 
November payment. Miss W says she contacted Lex Autolease at this time and was told that 
her account  was up to date. 
While I dont dispute Miss Ws account of what she as told and the upset this has caused, 
being incorrectly told the account  was settled doesnt mean that Miss W is no longer liable 
for the outstanding amount. Miss W had been  told in October  what the early termination fee 
would be and she should have been reasonably  aware that she would need to make  this 
payment. She was then given information that meant she believed  her account to be settled 
but this was incorrect. Lex Autolease explained the situation on Miss Ws account in its 
February 2019 final response  letter.
Therefore, while  I accept Miss W doesnt appear  to have  received the service  she should  
have I do not find that this means  the outstanding  balance should be written off. In this case  I 
do not find it unreasonable  that Lex Autolease requires the remainder of the early 
termination fee to be paid.  This amount equates to £445.13.
Ref: DRN62440343My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6244034