K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc closed his account  and recorded  information with 
CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service. 
background
In 2016 Mr G received  a payment into his account, which  Bank of Scotland identified as 
fraudulent. That is, the holder of the account  from which the payment was made hadnt 
authorised it. The bank closed Mr Gs account and placed a fraud marker against his name. 
Mr G complained about the banks actions in 2018   when it became apparent that the 
CIFAS marker  was making it difficult for him to open a bank account with another provider. 
He said he hadnt  known about the fraudulent nature of the payment to his account. He said 
hed been on holiday and had run out of money,  so asked a friend to send him funds. He 
had no control over what the friend  did then and didnt  know how the friend had obtained the 
money hed sent.
Mr G referred  the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought that Mr Gs explanation was plausible and that the bank hadnt done  enough to 
show that Mr G was directly involved in any wrongdoing. He indicated that he thought  it 
should arrange for the removal of the CIFAS  marker  and pay Mr G £150  in recognition of the 
inconvenience to which hed been  put. 
Bank of Scotland agreed to the investigators suggestion, but Mr G didnt think  the 
compensation suggested was enough. He suggested compensation of around  £25,000  
would be more appropriate. He asked that an ombudsman  review  the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I think  that the 
banks offer made following  the investigators recommendation is a fair way to resolve Mr Gs 
complaint. 
The investigator said that he thought Mr Gs explanation for the fraudulent  funds  that his 
friend had sent them  to his account without him knowing where they had come  from  was 
plausible. Because the bank agreed  to remove the CIFAS marker, I dont need to consider 
whether in fact Mr Gs explanation was true, and so I make no comment on that. 
I do however need to consider whether the offer of £150 in compensation is sufficient. Mr G 
has suggested that his business  could have made a significant profit  in the three years that 
the CIFAS marker was registered,  but that the marker had prevented investment. He hasnt 
however provided  evidence that persuades me that is the case.  I note that he had other 
banking arrangements available to him. In the circumstances, I agree with the investigators 
assessment that £150 is a fair level of compensation. For completeness, however, I will 
make a formal award. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Gs complaint, Bank of Scotland  should  (if and to the 
extent it hasnt already  done so) remove the CIFAS marker against his name  and pay him 
£150 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put. Under  the rules of the 
Ref: DRN65803892Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6580389