K820x#14complaint
C a limited company,  complain that Xbridge  Limited  mis-sold  them  an insurance policy.  The 
complaint has been made by Mr A who is a director of C. For ease of reading Ill mostly refer 
to Mr A. 
 
background
Mr As business sells fashion items and also offers eyebrow threading  at his premises. In 
November 2016  Mr A purchased a business insurance policy through  Xbridge.  He bought 
the policy over the phone. 
Mr A later made a claim on his policy which was declined. Mr A said a customer had an 
allergic reaction  to a treatment. The claim was declined due to an endorsement which 
excluded treatments from the professional indemnity section of the policy. Mr A says he 
wasnt previously aware  of this endorsement.  As a result of this he thinks  the policy  was 
unsuitable for his needs and had been  mis-sold.  
Mr A complained to Xbridge who explained  that the endorsement in question was highlighted 
during the sales  call. It was also clearly displayed in the policy documentation. So, on that 
basis, they didnt  agree the policy had been  mis-sold. 
Being unhappy with this response, Mr A referred  the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators ultimately didnt think it should  be upheld.  He concluded that the sale wasnt 
advised and that Xbridge did enough  to highlight the policy endorsement.  
As he disagrees, Mr A has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So I wont be upholding this complaint or 
asking Xbridge  to do more. 
Ive listened to the phone call during which Mr A purchased the policy.  He was asked for 
some information about his business  and Xbridge  explained it had found  one insurer  willing 
to offer cover. The main  features of the policy were explained and Mr A was asked if he 
wanted to purchase  the policy. No recommendation was made and Im satisfied that Xbridge 
didnt provide advice to Mr A about  whether or not the policy was suitable for him. 
But Xbridge  still had a duty to provide  information  that was clear, fair and not misleading, so 
that Mr A could understand the nature of the cover  he was buying and make an informed  
decision. 
During the call when the agent explained  the main details of the cover  he said:  its just not 
going to cover against treatment and medication with regards  to professional  indemnity  
cover. Beyond  this he explains that various documents  and the policy schedule will be sent 
out and goes on to say please read through the documents carefully as it now does form 
the basis of your contract with the insurer. It was also explained that there was a 14 day 
cooling off period on the policy.
Ref: DRN66598122Ive also seen a copy of the schedule  that was sent to Mr A shortly  after the policy  was set 
up. The endorsement is clearly listed within the schedule.  Taking  all of this into consideration 
Im satisfied Mr A was given  enough  information to decide whether  or not to buy the policy or 
cancel it within the cooling off period. 
I agree  that the endorsement  in question would have been important to Mr A and could be 
considered a significant exclusion. But Xbridge  specifically highlighted it during the sales call 
and asked Mr A to carefully  read the schedule within the cooling off period. So I dont agree 
that the policy was mis-sold and I wont be directing Xbridge to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6659812