K820x#14complaint 
Mr M complains J.P. Morgan Europe  Limited  (JPM) wont increase  the cash  withdrawal limit 
on his Post Office Card  Account.
background
Mr M has a Post Office  Card Account which his benefits are paid into.
Mr M says he finds it extremely  difficult, if not impossible, to get to his local Post Office on a 
regular basis. He has a disability that means hes in severe pain, so even basic tasks,  such  
as making a phone  call, take a lot out of him. Because  of his disability Mr M says on the rare 
occasions when  hes able to get to the Post Office,  he cant get all his benefits out in one go. 
Mr M says this is having a huge impact on him. He says, for example, hes not able to pay 
his carers and hes very worried theyll withdraw their support.
Mr M complained to us saying that JPM wasnt willing  to increase his daily cash withdrawal 
limit. JPM investigated Mr Ms complaint and said they couldnt  increase his limit as their 
systems wouldnt  allow this. JPM also said Mr M could withdraw more  than £600  provided 
this was arranged  in advance each time. Alternatively, they said Mr M could appoint a third 
party whod be allowed to make  withdrawals on his behalf. 
Mr M wasnt happy with JPMs response. He said he couldnt  phone in advance to arrange  to 
withdraw a larger  amount  as the call itself would  take everything out of him. He also said the 
only person who can help him to get to a cash machine lives over 40 miles away,  so 
appointing a third party  wasnt an option.  Mr M complained JPM wasnt making reasonable 
adjustments for him.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ms complaint and asked JPM if they could do more 
to help Mr M considering  his situation. JPM checked whether they could make further 
changes, and whether theyd be cost effective.  Having done so, JPM said a change to 
Mr Ms daily cash limit would involve significant  changes to their systems.  But there would 
still be the problem  of the Post Office  needing to know in advance  if large  withdrawals were  
going to be made, so they could make  sure they had enough cash  in the branch in question. 
JPM also said the change  wouldnt be cost effective. So JPM didnt  think the change was a 
reasonable adjustment.
Our investigator, having  considered the complaint,  didnt think  JPM had acted  unreasonably  
given the way their systems were designed  to work, and the changes that would be involved 
in increasing Mr Ms daily cash withdrawal limit. Mr M disagreed and said we should do more  
to make businesses like JPM help him. 
Ref: DRN60303432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this complaint, I agree with our investigator that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Before I give my reasons,  I think  itd be helpful to explain more  about:
a)the Post Office  Card Account and how it works; and
b)the way in which we approach complaints.
the Post Office  Card Account
The Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) has a contract with the Post Office to provide  
a Post Office Card Account until the end in 2021.  Individuals who are unable to open  a 
conventional account and who receive  benefits are entitled to open a Post Office Card  
Account. Once theyve  done so, the DWP pays their benefits into that account (rather  than 
into a conventional bank, building society or credit union account). The individual  can 
withdraw money from any Post Office branch using a card and PIN which  comes with the 
account.
how we approach complaints
When deciding whats fair and reasonable when considering a complaint, we have to take a 
number of things  into account including relevant law, and what we consider to be good 
industry practice at the time. 
In this case, the relevant  law Ill have to take into account includes the Equality Act 2010 
which, amongst other things, requires service providers to make reasonable adjustments  for 
people with disabilities.  The duty to make reasonable adjustments  means businesses must  
take steps to remove barriers people face as a result of their disability. Whats reasonable 
depends on a number of factors, and includes things like what the disability is, how easy  the 
changes are, and the cost of making the changes.
Mr Ms complaint
Weve spoken  to Mr M several times   whenever weve  done  so it sounds like hes in a lot of 
pain. He hasnt  told us what his disability is, but from what  he says it appears he was 
involved in an accident, which  has greatly impacted his day to day life. And as a result of the 
accident he says it means  he can only get to his local Post Office  which  is approximately  
0.2 miles away from his house  on rare occasions.
Ive seen statements  for Mr Ms Post Office Card  Account for 2018.  They  show  he withdrew 
cash from his local Post Office six times and he took the maximum amount out each  time.  
His statements also show that the DWP pays just under  £600  in benefits every  four weeks  
into his account.  In other words, hed have to visit his local Post Office every  four weeks in 
order to withdraw his benefits at the rate they come in. 
The evidence suggests Mr M visited his local branch every two to three months in 2018  so 
its likely  hell struggle  to get there every four weeks. So, I can see why Mr M thinks JPM 
ought to be making  reasonable adjustments allowing  him to withdraw more than £600 
whenever he visits his local Post Office. JPM has, however,  suggested other options open to 
Ref: DRN60303433Mr M. Ive considered these other options before  deciding whether JPM needs to do more to 
help.
The DWP and the Post Office have set out a framework  within  which the Post Office Card  
Account must operate. That framework seems to take account of the fact that a significant 
proportion of people  who need a Post Office  Card Account are likely to be vulnerable. The 
framework allows the account holder to appoint  a third party to help them manage the 
account on their behalf, in case the account holder  needs additional  support. 
Mr M has told us he has carers, and he also has a friend who helps him (although they dont 
live nearby). He says he sees carers  mostly  on a daily basis.  And I know hes said his friend 
lives a long way away and making calls takes everything out of him. But hed only need  help 
every two to three months which doesnt seem unreasonable. So I think  he does have  
people that can help him  in either managing  the account on his behalf, or helping  him to 
get to his local Post Office. 
The framework also allows the limit on daily cash withdrawals to be temporarily increased. 
This involves  the account holder ringing the Post Office in advance to say how much they 
want to withdraw, so the branch in question can make sure they have enough cash 
available. The account holder has to give 48 hours notice, and then needs to pick up the 
cash on the third day. JPM has suggested both of these options to Mr M.
The Post Office Card  Account isnt like a conventional account. Its an account the DWP  has 
asked the Post Office to provide for people who are receiving benefits  and who arent able to 
open accounts elsewhere. Mr M doesnt  appear  to fall into this category as hes told us he 
has an account elsewhere. That business  has, according to Mr M, been more  flexible as its 
increased his daily limit. So that might give Mr M other options to think about.  
Im satisfied JPM has spent a considerable amount of time working out whether they can 
increase Mr Ms daily cash withdrawal limit to be able to help him. More  importantly, Im 
satisfied JPM has come to the conclusion  that theyd only be able to do this if they made  
significant changes  to their overall systems,  and these changes would be extremely  costly.  
Taking everything into consideration, I agree it wouldnt  be fair and reasonable to ask JPM to 
make these changes.  The existing alternatives  JPM has in place are reasonable in light of 
what Mr Ms told us about his disability and how it impacts him. I hope  Mr M will take 
advantage of them, or get more support from his local authority if, as his evidence  implies, 
the care he receives  isnt enough to help him manage basic things like his finances.
my final decision
I know the outcome  will be disappointing, but for the reasons explained  above,  I dont uphold 
Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6030343