K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the first policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a loan. Due to 
the time that has passed, its not clear how Mr and Mrs H applied  for their loan and PPI 
policy. 
Due to the time that has passed  there are no details  of the loan available. But the PPI policy  
was paid for with a monthly premium  of £33.24. The policy  didnt attract interest  and could 
be cancelled  by either party with 30 days notice without penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life - subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  Mrs H was the second  policyholder  and as such  the policy  
provided life cover only for Mrs H.
In the event of Mr H making  a successful disability claim the policy  could have paid the 
monthly loan repayment until the loan was cleared or Mr H returned  to work. For a 
successful unemployment  claim the policy could have paid the monthly benefit for up to 12 
months. If Mr or Mrs H had died the policy would have cleared the outstanding balance of 
the loan.
In 1998 Mr and Mrs H took out a second loan of £5,000 (£1,229.07 of which was used to 
clear the first loan). 
At the same time they were sold a new PPI policy  to cover the loan. Again, due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Mr and Mrs H applied  for their loan and PPI policy.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £553.53  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £167.39  with the PPI costing  an additional £17.86 making  the total 
monthly repayment £185.25.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H only for accident,  sickness,  unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Hs monthly loan 
repayment for up to 12 months in the event of a successful unemployment claim and in the 
event of a successful disability claim it could have  paid the monthly  benefit  until Mr H 
returned to work or the loan term ended.  
At the time of both sales Mr H was employed as a computer manufacturer.  He has told us he 
was entitled to three months full sick pay should  he be unable to work.  Hed also be eligible 
for a redundancy payment if he lost his job. Mr H has also said his employer had a death-in -
service scheme which would pay one years  salary if he died. 
Mr and Mrs H had no other resources they could rely on to meet  the monthly repayments if 
Mr H wasnt able to work.
Ref: DRN65560912Although Mr H has said he broke a bone in 1976,  Mr and Mrs H have both said they were in 
good health at the time of the sales. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the second loan account ended  in 2001
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs H about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs H 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
Ref: DRN65560913When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint
These sales took place  in 1996 and 1998  before the General  Insurance Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The first credit agreement ended in 1998 and the second credit agreement  concluded in 
2001. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN65560914Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has been able to show us a copy of the loan agreement  from 1998 signed by Mr 
and Mrs H. I can see the PPI was set out separately  to the main  loan and was referred to as 
being optional.
Nationwide has shown  us an example  of the loan agreements it says were in use in 1996. I 
am satisfied  Mr and Mrs H would have signed  a loan agreement the same or very similar to 
the example. And I can see it described the PPI as optional.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew the policies 
were optional and they agreed  to take them  out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN65560915did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  these  sales. Mr and Mrs H cant recall if they 
received advice or not. From  experience  I am aware that Nationwide  didnt generally give 
advice on these types of policies in 1996 and 1998. Looking  at what  happened  when 
Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs H the PPI, Ive not seen  anything  to persuade me that it 
provided advice  Mr and Mrs H. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs H to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policies  were intended  to cover (that is that the policies would protect  their 
payments if Mr H was unable to work through accident, sickness  and unemployment.)  I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have taken out the 
policies without any sense  of what the policies  were. From the 1996 example credit 
agreement I think Mr and Mrs H would have known  how much  the monthly premium was 
going to cost.
And for the 1998 policy  I think Mr and Mrs H knew that the single premium being  added to 
the loan was £533.53 and the monthly cost was £17.86  each month (as this information was, 
in my view,  sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr and Mrs H signed.)   
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs H agreed to take out the policies.  
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Hs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN65560916-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs H suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold these policies to Mr 
and Mrs H. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs H suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs H would have still taken  out the policies, had Nationwide  done  things 
properly. 
Mr and Mrs H says they would not have taken  them out and believes I should presume this 
to be the case  given the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As these  were a non-advised sales,  Mr and Mrs H had to weigh up in their own minds  the 
cost of the policies against the benefits  offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs H chose to take these policies out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs H thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs H has suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs H were given about the cost was clear.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policies, such  as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs H would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Hs 
expectations about what the policies  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient 
to meet  their loan payments) were significantly different  to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Both policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions  that Mr H knew about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
Ref: DRN65560917The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do any work as certified by a doctor.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs H pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr H was the only policyholder  
covered for accident, sickness and unemployment  on both policies. And he was eligible for 
its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr H wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions   Mr H 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. So, I still 
think Mr and Mrs H had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Neither policy excluded  back or mental health  conditions or placed any additional restrictions 
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr H would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known Mr H could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to 
do his job but any work  as certified by a doctor  it might have played into their thinking about 
what they would do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although given 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and the limited other means they had to make  their 
repayments if Mr H was not working,  on balance, I still think  they would have been interested  
in taking out the cover. 
The 1998  policy  was paid for with a single premium up front. The policy did provide  a pro-
rata refund if it was cancelled early,  so the policy provided flexibility if Mr and Mrs H decided  
to repay  the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policies. The policies were  sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences were  Mr and Mrs H made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr 
and Mrs H would have  taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN65560918That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
and Mrs H found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policies 
they were buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would put them in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policies 
in how it described  the PPI. Whilst I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some 
of Nationwides  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr and 
Mrs H, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1996  and 1998 when providing  information about an 
insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
Ref: DRN65560919my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6556091