K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs G bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Mrs G says she didnt know the PPI had been added  to her account, and that she 
wouldnt have agreed to buy it. Ive noted  everything Mrs G has said. The difficulty I 
have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mrs G and the sales  person 
when the policy  was sold. Im also mindful that these  events happened many years  
ago. I accept that its possible PPI wasnt discussed  at the time, but its equally likely 
that it was  although I can understand why Mrs G may no longer remember this. 
Without anything  else to support what Mrs G has told me, I havent  been able to safely  
conclude that Mrs G wasnt made aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt  have  to ask about  any employer benefits Mrs G might have 
been entitled to, or other  means  she had to cover her repayments. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs G would  have been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover, and the policy  had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped her buying  it.
Ref: DRN60687342my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6068734