K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 with a 
hire purchase loan agreement. The loan included an amount  to pay for the policy. Mr and 
Mrs K say Advantage  Finance  Ltd (AFL) mis-sold them the PPI.
background 
Mr and Mrs K bought PPI in 2006 to cover  the repayments on their hire purchase agreement 
if Mr K was unable to work because of illness, injury or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs K disagree so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. To be clear, I have only looked  at the sale of 
the PPI as part of this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs K say that they thought  the PPI was compulsory. But AFL says it wouldve made 
the optional nature of it clear to them  it says the insurance wasnt discussed with it until 
Mr and Mrs K had already  been  approved for finance. Where there is a dispute like this, I 
have to decide what I think is more likely based  on all the evidence that is available  - this 
includes Mr and Mrs Ks testimony as well as any documentary evidence.  
AFL has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ks credit agreement which had a separate  section 
for insurance. Under  the heading OPTIONAL INSURANCE AND  OTHER PRODUCTS, 
customers had the option of ticking a box to add PPI. On Mr and Mrs Ks form, the box for 
requesting PPI cover has been ticked and they have signed the form to confirm  the 
selections made. This agreement also set out the cost of the PPI, as well as the interest 
added to all the insurances selected and the monthly  cost of the insurances. The demands 
and needs they signed also has a large  tick next to the PPI option   so it looks like the PPI 
was discussed  and chosen. 
Based on what Ive seen,  whilst Ive carefully  thought about what  Mr and Mrs K have said 
and I appreciate their strength of feeling  regrading this, I think  its more likely that AFL made 
it clear that Mr and Mrs K didnt  have  to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out. 
Mr and Mrs K also feel AFL pressured them to take the PPI. But other than saying it 
pressured them, they havent said much  more than this. Pressure can be subjective so Id 
need persuasive evidence to uphold  their complaint on this basis. But I havent heard any 
specific detail about what AFL said or did to put pressure on Mr and Mrs K. Overall, I havent 
seen enough to make me think AFL put pressure on Mr and Mrs K to take the PPI.
AFL recommended the PPI to Mr K (as the sole policy holder) so it had to check  the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
Ref: DRN63948712was. For example he was eligible for the policy and he wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI policy. 
Mr K told us he had sick pay provided by his employer. He adds that his family and friends 
couldve helped him make repayment  so he didnt need PPI. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ks sick pay for up to 12 months  for accident  or 
sickness. And it provided cover for up to 12 months if he became unemployed. Having  the 
policy left any other  means he mightve had available for him to use on other essential 
expenditure. And while I have no doubt his family  and friends wouldve wanted to help them,  
their ability to help wouldve depended  on their own circumstances at the time which 
couldve changed. 
And I havent seen  anything that suggests it was unaffordable at the time they took it. So, 
overall, I think they couldve found  the policy useful. 
Its possible the information AFL gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont  think the policy as mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6394871