K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance policy.
background
The policy was taken  out in 2002  at the same  time as Mr C arranged  the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Although Santander has some  paperwork  relating to the mortgage,  it no longer has copies of 
documentation relating directly to the sale of the PPI, which  is not surprising given the time 
that has elapsed.  But it does make the complaint more  difficult  to decide.  In reaching my 
decision I have considered the evidence  that we do have, and what I think is most likely to 
have happened. Ive also thought about how long ago the sale took place and how this may 
have affected  Mr Cs recollection of events.
Mr C says he wasnt made aware  that the PPI was optional and that he wasnt  given a 
choice about it. Mr C arranged his mortgage through an introducer who completed a 
mortgage application form. There is a section on the form entitled General Insurance  and 
within that section  there  is a tick in a box for PPI indicating that Mr C wished to be contacted  
directly by Santander about  the policy. From what we know  of the way that Santander sold 
mortgage PPI at that time, and the types of forms it used, I think it is more likely than not that 
the optional nature of the policy was made  clear. It seems  to me that Mr C probably  decided 
to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even  if he no longer remembers doing so.
Santander advised Mr C to take out the PPI. Therefore in recommending  the policy to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time, the policy appears to have been suitable  for him.
The PPI covered Mr C for accident and sickness only. So Santander  didnt sell Mr C the 
unemployment part of the cover. This suggests  there was some discussion about Mr Cs 
circumstances. 
Mr C has said that if he was off sick hed have carried on drawing a salary until he returned 
to work. Thats because he was the director of his own company and if he had been  off sick 
there was a manager who would have run the business in his absence, as happened when 
he took holidays. But the mortgage documents show that Mr C was not yet a director, but 
was a senior manager at that time. Also, being on holiday for a short  time is very different to 
potentially being  off work for months due to ill health. And theres the question of whether Mr 
Cs absence from the business for a longer period would have affected the income the 
Ref: DRN66417272company received, and therefore  its ability to carry on paying his salary  even if he wasnt 
there. As well as buying a house,  Mr C has told us that he was also in the process  of buying 
the business from the then owner  and was paying for this over an 18 month  period.  This 
means that he was heavily financially  committed. Although Mr C has said that he had some  
savings, having  the policy would have  meant  that he could retain his savings or use them  to 
pay for other  outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. So I think that Mr C had a 
need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on the 
mortgage can be serious. So it wouldnt be surprising if Mr C had an interest in protecting his 
mortgage repayments.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly the things that it didnt  cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think that Mr C had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he isnt any worse  off 
as a result  of anything  Santander may have  done wrong. So there is nothing that Santander 
needs to do to put things  right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6641727