K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss S says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Miss S took out in 2000 and it 
was sold to her in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Miss S aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before  
adding it to her card.  I wasnt present when Miss S applied  for the PPI so I dont know for 
certain what was said. But FICL  has provided  a copy  of Miss Ss application form. There was 
a separate section on the form for PPI that Miss S has signed to accept the PPI. Miss S 
signed this section separately to agreeing to the card itself.  With this in mind  I think Miss S 
would have known  the PPI was optional and agreed  to take the policy.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss S got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. Miss S has told us that she was self-employed when she took the policy.  But the PPI 
policy didnt make it any more difficult for self-employed people to make a claim.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN68585162my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6858516