K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Warren & Co (Complete Financial  Solutions)  Ltd 
(Warren & Co) declared spent criminal convictions when  applying for mortgages  on their 
behalf. They  want compensation  and the knowledge  of the conviction deleted.
background
Mr and Mrs H wanted to remortgage and Warren & Co was their broker.  Mr and Mrs H 
werent happy that theyd had to declare a spent  criminal conviction  when applying for 
mortgages, and said that this was in breach of the Data Protection Act 2018 and the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974. They accepted that their debt issues  mayve  made  
applications more  difficult, but said lenders  only refused to lend once Warren & Co disclosed 
the spent conviction. It appeared that some of the lenders involved had said that their 
policies required the conviction to have  been  spent for at least 12 months.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to Warren & Co. It said that under the rules of the Financial  
Conduct Authority,  it was required to disclose its knowledge about the consumers,  
regardless of the conviction being  spent if asked a question about convictions  by lenders  
as a regulated  business, it was required to show integrity. Warren & Co explained  that one 
lender did ask if there was a conviction  when enquiries were made, and it answered 
truthfully. It also pointed out that Mr and Mrs H refused to give details about the conviction, 
which meant that lender wouldnt proceed  with the application. Warren  & Co also said that 
due to the debt issues,  the lenders it could approach were limited. Only one invited an 
application but said that its lending  policies required the conviction to have  been  spent for at 
least 12 months, which wasnt the case here.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to us. The adjudicators view was that Warren & Co wasnt at 
fault. He pointed out that Mr and Mrs H had told it about the conviction,  but not the details, 
and as brokers it was required to act with honesty  and integrity under the guidelines set out 
by the Financial Conduct Authority. It answered  questions asked honestly. The adjudicator 
said that lenders  were  able to apply their own lending policies, which was outside the control 
of Warren & Co. He didnt think that it acted  unfairly  or unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed.  They said that Warren & Co shouldnt  have revealed the conviction 
at all. The adjudicator said that it wasnt the role of this service  to decide if the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act or data protection law has been breached; we look at 
whether what has happened  was fair and reasonable. They  also said that some of the 
lenders involved  had accepted that they needed to change their lending policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im only able to deal with the current  
complaint against  Warren  & Co in this decision,  and not anything about  the actions of third 
parties, such as the lenders.
Ref: DRN62978682From the evidence available to me, theres  no objective information  about the conviction in 
question so I cant check whether it was indeed spent.  I note that Mr and Mrs H accept that 
they didnt give Warren & Co the full information,  and this is shown by the emails between 
Mrs H and Warren & Co  Mrs H didnt provide enough information to enable Warren  & Co 
to check if the conviction  was spent, but did tell them  about  the conviction,  which  meant it 
knew.
Brokers are required  to answer questions  from lenders honestly  and with integrity.  I note that 
even the charity that advises on spent convictions warns  that if a broker knows about a 
conviction, it may feel obliged to answer  questions when asked by a lender and disclose the 
existence of the conviction. While  it isnt the role of this service to deal with complaints about 
possible breaches of data protection law or decide  if the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act has 
been breached  (as were not the Information Commissioner or a court),  I still have to 
consider whether Warren & Co acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. Given 
the limited information  given  to Warren & Co by Mr and Mrs H, I cant say that it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in answering  questions about convictions  honestly, particularly as it 
didnt have the full information, despite  asking for it.
Its relevant to note that lenders decide  on what basis and to whom  theyre  willing to lend, 
and brokers arent responsible for such decisions.  Mr and Mrs H chose to tell Warren  & Co 
about the conviction, for entirely understandable reasons. But once it knew, Warren & Co 
had to answer questions about the conviction  from lenders honestly and I cant say that this 
is unfair or unreasonable. Its for the lenders with their expertise and specialist knowledge to 
unpick whether the conviction is spent and if their lending  policies are met, as well as to 
ensure that their lending policies comply with the law. Warren  & Co isnt responsible  for the 
actions of the lenders.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6297868