K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Phoenix Life Limited  has requested he pay back an overpayment 
following a successful claim  on his permanent health insurance policy. 
background
In 2012 Mr J suffered  a serious injury  which  had a significant impact on his physical and 
mental health. He was unable to work and successfully claimed on his insurance policy.  He 
received a monthly benefit. Mr Js wife, who also represents him in relation to this complaint, 
says that she wrote  to Phoenix Life asking them to contact her due to her husbands  
condition. There was also an agreement  that Phoenix Life would request financial 
information directly from Mr Js accountant
In 2018 Phoenix  Life wrote to Mr J to say that hed received an overpayment of 
approximately £21, 000. This caused  Mr J a lot of distress and impacted on his mental  
wellbeing considerably. Mrs J found out about the letter and it transpired that the calculation 
of the overpayment had incorrectly included Mr Js dividends. Mrs J complained to Phoenix 
Life on Mr Js behalf. 
The revised calculation,  not including the dividends, reduced the overpayment to 
approximately £9000. The overpayment arose because Phoenix Life had reviewed the claim 
in 2014 and increased the overall level of benefit.  As Mr J received an income  from the 
business in which he was a partner, and later received a small salary, this led to an 
overpayment of the benefit. Phoenix Life explained  theyd sent a letter to Mr J in 2014 to 
explain that the calculation of the benefit  had changed. 
In recognition of poor customer service, Phoenix Life agreed to deduct £1000  leaving an 
outstanding balance of approximately £8000. They explained they would be willing to accept 
a repayment plan. Unhappy, Mr J made  a complaint to our service.   
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt uphold Mr Js complaint 
because she was satisfied there  had been an overpayment and that the award of £1000  
fairly reflected the distress  and inconvenience  caused by what  had gone wrong. She was 
satisfied that it was most likely Phoenix  Life had written to Mr J in 2014 about the 
calculations changing  and referred to a call Mrs J had with Phoenix Life around  that time. 
Mrs J didnt agree and made a number of further  representations on Mr Js behalf. In 
summary, Mrs J says there is no evidence proving that the 2014  letter  about the change  in 
benefits was sent to their accountant, as Phoenix  Life had been instructed to. She says the 
overpayment hinges on this because, had the letter been sent to their accountant, they 
would have reviewed  their financial arrangements and avoided the overpayment by 
decreasing Mr Js income from the business. So, I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs J have been  through a very traumatic  and distressing time since  
Mr Js accident. Mrs J has explained how much  it has impacted on their home and work 
lives. So, I dont doubt theyve had a very difficult and challenging experience.  
Ref: DRN65592432Mrs J has made a number of representations  on Mr Js behalf but Ill only refer to those 
which I think are central to the outcome of this complaint. 
I accept that there have  been failings in the service Mr J has received from Phoenix Life. 
Their error  in asking  Mr J, incorrectly, to repay a very large  sum of money is disappointing 
and shouldve been managed more carefully,  particularly given the circumstances of his 
physical and mental health after his accident. But, Im not upholding this complaint as I dont 
think Phoenix Life needs to do anything further  to put things right for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain. 
Mrs J told us in her original complaint letter that neither she, nor her accountant, had 
received the March 2014 letter about  the change in benefits. She said that from December 
2012, when the claim  was accepted,  all subsequent financial correspondence  went  to the 
accountant not her. But I can understand why the March  2014 letter  wasnt  sent to the 
accountant. It didnt  contain any request for financial information  it explained  the change  in 
the calculation  of the benefit. So, it seems most likely to me that this was the reason  it wasnt  
sent to him. 
I do think that Phoenix Life should have sent the letter to Mrs J, as its accepted that there 
were express instructions  to send correspondence  to her, not Mr J. If Phoenix Life needed  a 
power of attorney, or any other additional  authority, then they should have contacted Mrs J 
to discuss this. 
Im satisfied the letter was sent, and was correctly  addressed. I can see Mr and Mrs J live at 
the same  address and Id usually expect  correctly addressed mail to arrive.  But, in any 
event, there  are other  reasons that persuade me that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.  
The claim was accepted on the basis that Mr Js 2013 tax return was required. The March 
2014 letter  was prompted by the completion and submission  of that tax return. Having 
received it, as of September  2013,  the sum assured increased and therefore the amount of 
benefit which was paid to Mr J did too. I also note that there was a one-off payment of £815  
made. So, I think all of this would most likely  to have suggested that there  were  some 
changes following the receipt of the relevant tax return. 
Ive also taken into account the information  on the file in relation to a call which  took place 
shortly after the letter  was sent.  The letter in relation  to the change in calculations is dated 
24 March. Ive looked at screenshots from Phoenix  Lifes system which show  that Mrs J 
called on the 25 March 2014  asking  for a call back.  A conversation  took place on the 27 
March. In the notes  there is reference  to Mr Js treating  consultant. Ill refer to him as Dr H. 
The call note says: 
Mrs J called me. She was very upset and angry  about all the letters  we have sent 
them asking about Dr H. She has tried to contact Dr H several times to see if he has 
made any progress with getting funding for treatment but he has not got back to 
her I apologized for the distress our letters have caused. I said we have no doubt 
about the validity of the claim and we had only asked for this information for a claims  
management point  of view. I said that we would not send  any more letters now she 
has given me this update. When we need  the 2014  tax return we will request this 
from the accountants and when we next need  a medical update  we will write to his 
GP. 
Ref: DRN65592433I appreciate that Mrs J feels that this doesnt evidence that the letter  was sent or received. 
But I think it does show that its most  likely the March  2014 letter  was received. I say that 
because the records  show that Mrs J phoned  Phoenix Life on the 25 March, the day after the 
letter was sent.  And, when she spoke  to them on 27 March, Mrs J referred  to having 
received letters about Dr H and the funding. There was also reference  in the call to the 2014 
tax return. 
I think thats relevant  because the letter about  the change in calculations says:  
Your accountants have  estimated  your continued  income to be £15, 000 per annum 
or £288.46 per week. This will be reconciled  upon receipt of your 2014 tax return  
when this is available.  
We look forward to hearing  from your (sic) if you are receiving and funding  or 
treatment recommended by Dr H. 
If you have any questions  you can call our Customer Helpline or write to us if 
preferred. 
Mrs J told us that letters such  as this ought  to have been sent by recorded post. But thats 
not something Phoenix Life, or most  businesses,  do. And, generally we wouldnt think  thats 
unreasonable, particularly as theres  no suggestion that Mrs J had asked for correspondence 
to be sent in this way as part of the arrangements.  
Overall, the evidence suggests  to me that its most likely that this letter was received by 
Mr and Mrs J. I am not suggesting that theyve acted dishonestly  or fraudulently when  they 
decided to increase  the amount of money  Mr J received  from the business. I agree  the 
reasons, and rationale for doing so, were entirely honourable. However, I think theyd most 
likely not recalled or appreciated the impact the 2014 letter would  have had on their plans 
when they made that decision a few years  later. And this unfortunately led to the 
overpayment of benefit occurring. 
The evidence Ive been provided with persuades  me that Phoenix Life did make an 
overpayment and that, as the policy came to an end in 2017, there is an amount that Mr J 
needs to repay to Phoenix Life. Theyve  agreed  that Mr J can enter into a repayment plan 
and pay in instalments  which I think is reasonable.
I also think that the £1000 compensation, which has been deducted from the outstanding 
balance, is fair and reasonable. As I outlined at the beginning of my decision there were 
failings here and its accepted that they had an impact on Mr Js wellbeing,  particularly on his 
mental health. I think £1000 compensation, which is in the substantial  range for our service,  
fairly reflects the distress  caused.    
Ref: DRN65592434my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision before 17 October  2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6559243