K821x#15complaint
Ms H and Mr G complain  of shortcomings by TSB Bank plc in the setting  up and 
administration of their re-mortgage  and in its response to their complaints.
To resolve  their complaint  they want:
 recognition of the complaint; 
 investigation of their issue and an answer as to why TSB provided  incorrect 
information multiple times and took money  out of their account before even 
acknowledging that they had a mortgage  with it; 
 if the opening balance of their mortgage is not consistent with what they expect,  an 
explanation of why and a correction if necessary, with interest adjustments to match; 
 £250 cashback for signing  up for a TSB mortgage as existing customers,  as per the 
website; 
 appropriate compensation for the hours  spent phoning, writing, and generally  chasing 
TSB, and reimbursement of interest charged  owing to an incorrect mortgage amount.
background
Ms H and Mr G completed a re-mortgage with TSB on 31 May or 1 June 2018.  But the 
mortgage failed  to appear in their online banking. Mr G called  TSB on 4 June to query  this 
and ask when  the first payment would  be taken. But Ms H and Mr G say that instead of 
dealing with the request, TSB put him through to the Lloyds mortgage helpline,  which  
obviously was not able to help him, leading to a significant waste  of time.
Ms H and Mr G spoke  to their solicitors,  who confirmed  that their re-mortgage had 
completed, the funds had been transferred,  and they definitely had a mortgage  with TSB. 
Ms H therefore called TSB again  on 7 June  and provided the mortgage application number. 
This time the customer assistant was able to find the mortgage,  but couldnt  say when they 
would be receiving any documentation. TSB said the first payment would be taken on 3 July 
with subsequent payments taken on the 3rd of each month. However, TSB wasnt  able to tell 
them what  the amount of the first payment would be.
Ms H and Mr G were  still concerned that they hadnt received anything from TSB,  and that 
the mortgage still wasnt showing in their online banking. So Mr G called again on 11 June to 
try to find out what the amount  of the first payment would  be and when they would be 
notified that their application had been  successful.  TSB said it had no record of their 
mortgage or of their application and that they didnt  have a mortgage  with TSB.
On 14 June Ms H spoke to a branch.  The manager there was able to locate the mortgage 
and said they did have a mortgage with TSB and that the first payment would be £1,149.55  
and would be taken  on 3 July, with subsequent payments of £1,136.65  on the last day of 
each month. 
However on 15 June  Ms H and Mr G received a letter from TSB dated 31 May, saying that 
the first payment of £1,149.55 would be taken on 11 June, which it had been. This letter also 
Ref: DRN67147752said that the mortgage balance at 31 May was £256,395.05, which Ms H and Mr G thought  
couldnt be right as the amount borrowed was £255,995.00 including  the £995 fee, and no 
interest could have accrued before the first day. Somehow, TSB had added  an additional 
£400.05. In addition they should have received £150 cashback but this wasnt  mentioned  in 
the letter.
Accordingly Ms H and Mr G wrote  a letter of complaint to TSB.  On 11 July TSB replied:
Were sorry for the time its taking to review  and respond to you. Following our systems 
upgrade, more customers have been  in touch with us than usual.  We promise  we will write to 
you within the next four weeks, either  with our final response to your complaint,  or to give 
you a further update.
Ms H and Mr G received a further  letter from TSB on 27 July again saying it would contact 
them within 4 weeks. But they heard  nothing  further  from TSB and the mortgage  still failed  to 
appear in their online banking. They called TSB again and it said it had no record of their 
complaint.
On 24 August they brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator recommended  
the complaint  be upheld  and that a payment  of £300  would be fair and reasonable for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms H and Mr G had received the paper mortgage  statement  on 13 November. This showed 
the amount of borrowing  as £255,000, plus £995  for the fee, making a total of £255,995. A 
sum of £12.90  had also been added to the mortgage  balance, which was interest, taking the 
overall balance  to £256,007.90. This had been  included because  the mortgage  started  on 
31 May, but the first payment wasnt collected until 11 June. However,  any extra interest  
which was included as part of the current balance shown in TSBs letter  dated  31 May was 
removed once the first payment was made - and this appeared to have been done. So whilst 
the investigator was uncertain why a figure of £256,396.05 was shown in TSBs letter  dated  
31 May 2018, she believed the mortgage statement was correct.
In relation to the cashback, the investigator could  see from the website that TSB current 
account customers who paid in at least £500  per month, qualified for £150,  paid as cashback 
on completion of their mortgage.  Ms H and Mr G had confirmed they held a bank account 
with TSB and had done for the past five years, paying in at least £500 per month. So the 
investigator suggested that they met TSBs  criteria.  She recommended TSB make an 
additional payment of £150, plus 8% interest from the date of completion of their mortgage to 
the date of payment.
Neither party accepted the investigators recommendations.
Ms H and Mr G said theyd called TSB on 9 November  and it said their complaint hadnt  yet 
been assigned  to anybody to investigate. It said it would escalate their complaint  to become 
a priority. This was a new service TSB had issued which allowed them to escalate a 
complaint so that the customer received a call or a resolution within  a guaranteed time frame  
of 10 working days. Yet over six weeks later,  they had yet to receive  a phone call or letter 
from TSB.
They said TSB couldnt be bothered to respond or to resolve  the issue  which  theyd tried to 
escalate with it on multiple occasions. They requested higher compensation from TSB.
Ref: DRN67147753TSB said it had sent a letter  to Ms H and Mr G on 31 May confirming the first payment was 
due to be collected on 11 June and would  total £1,149.55. TSB couldnt be responsible  for 
the delay in the post being received.
If Ms H and Mr G were told the payment would be taken on 3 July then this would have been 
correct to a degree, in that this was the chosen  payment  date going  forward.  As the 
mortgage didnt  commence until 31 May,  there was insufficient time to set a direct debit in 
time for 4 June for the first payment.
TSB was happy that the amount of the payment quoted in the letter of 31 May was correct.  
But it agreed that the balance quoted  was incorrect. The balance which should have been 
quoted was the amount  borrowed, including the product  fee, plus one days  interest for 
31 May (£12.90). This meant the balance quoted should have been £256,007.90. The letter 
had also added the interest  due to be charged for June (£387.15), giving a total balance 
quoted of £256,395.05.
In relation to the cashback, the application  had been  submitted  by a broker and it was his 
responsibility to select  the correct  product.  Ms H and Mr G would need  to complain to their 
broker about this. The mortgage offer didnt mention the cashback. Ms H and Mr G had 
agreed to proceed  on this product.
TSB asked  for a review of the investigators  recommendation  on redress.
TSB also replied to Ms H and Mr Gs complaint  on 15 February 2019, apologising for the 
problems and its delay  in responding, which it attributed to a systems upgrade.  It said that to 
compensate Ms H and Mr G for any distress and inconvenience they had experienced, it 
would pay them £100 plus £50 for their expenses.
I took a different view of the complaint to the adjudicator. So I decided to issue  a provisional  
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
When Ms H called  TSB on 7 June the customer assistant was able to find the mortgage, but 
couldnt say when she and Mr G would be receiving any documentation.  But according to 
TSB, the documentation  had already been  sent on 31 May. Ms H and Mr G hadnt received 
that letter so didnt query what they were told, but TSB knew it had been sent.
Likewise Ms H and Mr G shouldnt have been told on 14 June that the first payment  would  
be taken on 3 July. On that date Ms H and Mr G hadnt received TSBs letter of 31 May, but 
TSB knew that it had been sent and that it said the first payment would be taken on 11 June. 
And TSB knew on 14 June that it had already taken the first payment. Ms H and Mr G were 
within a whisker of having  a default  recorded on their credit files if thered been  insufficient 
money in the paying account  on 11 June.
TSB initially acknowledged receipt  of Ms H and Mr Gs complaint  and made two promises  to 
write to them  within  four weeks,  but did neither. When  Ms H and Mr G complained  to this 
service, TSB failed to respond to the investigators  request  for information and documents, 
such that she had to issue her recommendations purely on the basis of the information  
Ref: DRN67147754provided by Ms H and Mr G. After the investigator issued her recommendations, TSB made  
no response until after the complaint had been referred  to an ombudsman  for final decision.
In my provisional view an appropriate award  for the trouble and upset caused  to 
Ms H and Mr G is £500.
Its true that the mortgage offer didnt  mention  the cashback, but Ms H and Mr G could 
reasonably have supposed  that it simply wasnt appropriate to mention it there.  The 
cashback offer was for £150 not £250  as suggested by Ms H and Mr G in their complaint 
form.
However this was a promotion for a remortgage to TSB for existing banking  customers.  So 
Ms H and Mr G would have to take advice  from either TSB or a broker. In this case  it was a 
broker. There would have  been limited product options available  for the promotion   there 
always are for such promotions.
The broker  would have  been responsible  to recommend the best product for 
Ms H and Mr Gs needs and requirements,  whether  that product  was part of the promotion or 
not. Any preferences  they had for things like cashback would be taken into account when the 
product was recommended. It would be their responsibility to tell the broker of any such 
preferences when asked.  It was then the brokers responsibility to explain the mortgage and 
product they were  recommending and why. If Ms H and Mr G had mentioned the promotion 
and the broker  wasnt recommending  they use it, then it would have been for the broker  to 
explain to them why a promotion product wasnt being used.
It is clear from the evidence that Ms H and Mr G didnt apply for a mortgage product that 
qualified for the cash-back they had seen promoted. As such, I cant ask TSB to pay them a 
cash-back payment, as they arent  entitled to it.
Therefore in summary I consider that TSB should pay to Ms H and Mr G:
£500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to them;
£50 for telephone calls and expenses.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  conclusions, I confirm them here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay £550 to 
Ms H and Mr G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2019. 
Edward Callaghan
Ref: DRN67147755ombudsman
Ref: DRN6714775