K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from Goldman Sachs  International Bank 
trading as Marcus  by Goldman Sachs (MGS) when he transferred money from his 
Santander bank  account to his MGS savings account. 
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr K and MGS, so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this;
On the 9 March  2019 at about  6.15pm  Mr K made  a faster payment transfer of just over 
£6,000 from his Santander account to his savings  account with MGS. He believes this 
should have arrived  in his account  within 2 hours  but it didnt. It arrived  at 12.54pm  the 
following day. Additionally Mr K said that a link to the MGS website he was given by a 
customer service  agent hadnt  worked. In his written  complaint Mr K said this caused him 
severe distress and inconvenience and he has asked for £300 compensation and for MGS to 
ensure that they have a functional and transparent website.  MGS said the Mr Ks transfer  
was completed within  24 hours and he didnt miss out on any interest because it had been 
applied to his account from the 9 March.
Mr K was unhappy with MGSs  response  and so the adjudicator looked into the complaint 
but didnt think  MGS had acted unfairly.  As Mr K didnt agree,  the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I do not perform  the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make 
rules for financial businesses, punish them,  or direct that they change their processes.  That 
falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  Authority. Equally we are not a court service. 
What I need to decide is whether MGS acted  fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr K. I 
take into account both MGS view and that of Mr K and I consider the evidence and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable  decision based  on that evidence. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach  a 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what  is more likely  to 
have happened  in the light of that evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. 
Our adjudicator checked the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account  and confirmed that they 
do say that if a customer makes a bank transfer it will usually  show in their account as soon 
as MGS receive it. And, that the customer will start earning interest on the same day as the 
transfer. That is right. In Mr Ks case he did start earning interest the same  day he made  the 
transfer but the transfer didnt show in his account  until the next day.
Ref: DRN64679452MGS have explained  that on their website they also address  the issue  of bank transfers 
being carried out on a weekend. That describes how money transferred over the weekend 
can take until the end of the following Monday to show  in the customers account. And that is 
what happened here. In considering all of the circumstances, and taking  into account the fact 
that the transferred funds remained in Mr Ks account for some considerable time,  I cannot 
see that there has been any material  disadvantage occasioned to Mr K here.
So, in strict application of the terms and conditions applicable to the account, the payment 
was processed in line with the payment timescales  set out on MGSs website, and so I 
cannot say they have  been breached. I therefore  cannot say that MGS have acted  unfairly. 
Turning to the issue of the broken website link provided to Mr K, I have to agree that this was 
poor service. However what  Mr K was being  directed to - the further  information  regarding 
the payment processing times - was available on the public website and could have been 
accessed by Mr K. I can accept that being provided with a link which  doesnt  work would 
cause anyone irritation and frustration, but I think it is only likely to have been very minor,  
and so I do not accept that it could lead to the level of inconvenience and distress Mr K 
describes.
I have given thought as to whether MGS should  be required to pay compensation to Mr K. 
On some occasions it is right that financial compensation is awarded for reductions  in levels 
of service, but that does not mean it should be paid on every occasion. Sometimes the 
failures are significant and have a serious impact upon a customer. But on other occasions 
the failures are minimal, and I would  categorise this failure as such. I dont think  the 
provision of the broken link was intentional  and I think  it was given in an attempt to help 
resolve Mr Ks complaint. It was unfortunate, but it was a failure which could be easily 
surmounted by Mr K. As such  I cant  say MGS have acted unfairly here.  
I know Mr K will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Goldman Sachs 
International Bank trading  as Marcus by Goldman Sachs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6467945