K822xcomplaint
Ms O complains Nationwide Building  Society withdrew its mortgage offer.
background
Ms O applied for a mortgage with Nationwide at the beginning of June 2018 and received an 
offer at the end of June  2018. The offer was withdrawn in October  2018  following 
Nationwides valuer considering the effect of the ground rent on his valuation.
It isnt agreed when Nationwide first became  aware  that there may be an issue  with the 
ground rent on the property but it certainly  knew by 26 June 2018 after receiving an email 
from Ms O. The Nationwide adviser  who saw the email replied that he would  pass  the email 
on to the valuation team for clarification  but indicated he didnt think it would be a problem. 
Ms Os solicitors  advised Nationwide of the terms of the ground rent on 23 August 2018. 
Nationwide instructed the surveyor to re-consider the security,  given this information. There 
were then a series of exchanges between the solicitors  and Nationwide  passing on 
information. The mortgage offer was then withdrawn in October.
When Ms O complained to Nationwide  it paid her £400 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused. 
Ms O didnt think this was enough.  She thought Nationwide should  cover her additional costs  
which included the extra costs she would have to pay for renting, being on a standard 
variable rate, search  fees and for a pet certificate  management  enquiry  fee.
The adjudicator felt the complaint should  be partially upheld. He thought  the adviser 
shouldnt have said what he did about  the ground  rent. And that it took too long to tell Ms O 
that the offer was withdrawn. He did think, however, Nationwide  was entitled to withdraw  the 
offer when the valuation was re-considered following the information  provided by Ms Os 
solicitors. He thought   in addition to the £400 it had already paid  Nationwide  should pay 
£300 for searches and £80 for a pet certificate  management enquiry fee. He didnt agree that 
Nationwide should  cover the other costs mentioned by Ms O.
Ms O disagreed. She said she was told by the estate agents for the seller  that the sale of 
another property  on the same estate had fallen though due to the ground rent so she 
discussed this with Nationwide on 14 June  that is before the offer. She didnt agree with 
the adjudicators  comment in his view that the issue  with the ground rent was new 
information when  the solicitors told Nationwide  about it. She felt she should have been told 
that there  was a second survey in August as this would have alerted her to the idea that 
there maybe  a problem.  If she had known then she could have looked at other  properties.  By 
the time she did get told  by text in October   there  was nothing available  to buy.
Ref: DRN68198862As things  turned out she didnt move  into rented accommodation at the time she expected  
when she first brought the complaint to us because there was a delay with her sale. At the 
time she asked for an ombudsmans  decision, her sale was scheduled to complete shortly. 
At which time she thought she would have no choice  but to go into rented accommodation 
as there  was still nothing  to buy and she did not want to lose her buyer in what  she thought 
was a difficult market. So she was going  to have two lots of removal costs  and her rental  
costs were expected  to be higher  than her mortgage costs. She was also unhappy  that she 
was on a standard variable rate with her current Nationwide mortgage because her two year 
deal expired in September 2018.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said I could understand Ms Os frustration. I thought it 
was likely that she told Nationwide  about the issue with the ground  rent in the middle of June 
and yet she didnt  learn the mortgage  offer was being withdrawn  until October. I didnt think 
this was acceptable at all.
I thought, had the Nationwide  adviser  passed  on the information about the ground rent to the 
valuation team straightaway and it had been acted upon, then Miss O would probably have 
known at the end of June  2018 that it wouldnt lend on the property. 
I explained when  a business  makes  a mistake we look to put a consumer in the same 
position they would have  been in if the mistake hadnt occurred so I need to consider what I 
thought Ms O would  have  done had she known Nationwide wouldnt lend on the property in 
June 2018. I thought she would have looked  to see if she could find another property.  If she 
could find a property  she would have tried to buy it. At the time of the provisional  decision I 
thought she wouldnt  have found  another property.  I said this because it didnt appear that 
she has found something in twelve months of looking  so I was not sure why she would have 
found something in the couple of months before. I thought regardless of whether she found 
another property  she would  have  continued  with her own sale.  I said this because, having 
read her responses to the adjudicators view, I thought her opinion  was that this is difficult 
time to find buyers and she wouldnt want to lose a buyer now. 
So I thought  that Ms O wouldnt  have tried to switch  to a new product with Nationwide  as she 
was intending  to sell her own property soon. I also thought  she would have incurred rental  
and moving costs as well. I agreed  with the adjudicator  that it was fair for Nationwide to 
reimburse the fees relating to the property she didnt  buy  so to pay £300 for the searches 
and £80 for the pet certificate fee. I said this because if she had known  Nationwide wouldnt 
lend on the property in June she wouldnt have incurred  the costs.
I thought the payment Nationwide had already  made for distress and inconvenience seemed 
a little low given the time Miss O wasted and the frustration she experienced. I thought an 
award of £600  seems  more appropriate. 
response to my provisional  decision
Ms O accepted my provisional decision as did Nationwide although both did so reluctantly. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN68198863As both parties have  agreed my provisional decision I see no reason to depart  from it and 
confirm it now.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and order that Nationwide  Building  Society  pay Ms O £380 to 
compensate her for the money she has spent on search fees and a pet certificate 
management enquiry fee and a further  £200  in addition to the £400 it has already paid - for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6819886