K821x#15complaint
Mr B is complaining about the way Stackhouse Poland Limited  (SPL)  arranged a car 
insurance policy. 
background
In March 2015 Mr B took out a car insurance policy through SPL  a broker.  At the time he 
says he explained  his brother owned the car and Mr B wanted to be insured to drive  it in his 
own name. 
The policy renewed  for the next two years. But towards the end of the third year, Mr B 
contacted SPL as he was concerned the policy hadnt been correctly set up as hed had a 
claim declined  on a separate  policy. In particular he wanted to see if SPL had told the insurer 
that he wasnt the registered keeper of the car. SPL explained that his brother was down as 
the owner of the car, but Mr B was the registered  keeper. It referred  this matter to the insurer  
who said, based on this, it wasnt willing to renew  the policy any further.
Mr B complained to SPL that it had mis-sold  him the policy.  SPL didnt think  it had done so. It 
said Mr B had said he would be the registered  keeper of the car. And it highlighted that the 
policy documents it sent out said that Mr Bs brother was the owner of the car and Mr B was 
the registered keeper.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said she acknowledged the policy documents  
and demands and needs document  SPL completed   said Mr B had said hed be the 
registered keeper.  But she said this didnt  show how much  detail  SPL would have gone 
when carrying out the application.  And she thought on balance Mr B did tell SPL he wasnt 
the registered keeper of the car. 
I issued a provisional decision not uphold  this complaint. And I said the following:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes  as a qualifying  misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation  the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy  on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA  depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
In this case, SPL were acting as Mr Bs broker. It made the representation of the risk to the 
insurer on Mr Bs behalf. So it needed  to ensure it obtained the relevant information  from 
Mr B to ensure that it carried out his responsibilities under CIDRA  correctly. Theres no 
dispute that SPL told the insurer that Mr B was registered keeper of the car, but he wasnt.  
The issue  for me to decide is whether it took sufficient steps  to ascertain whether Mr B was 
Ref: DRN69426062the registered keeper or not. In particular, taking  into account what CIDRA  says, I think it 
needed to ask Mr B sufficiently clear questions to understand  all the relevant material facts.
Given the policy was first taken out over five years  ago, there isnt a call recording for what 
was said when Mr B first applied for the policy.  So we cant know  for certain what  was said  
and in particular  what SPL asked him. I have to base  my decision on what I think  was most  
likely to have happened, based on the available evidence I do have.
SPL has advised me that the demands  and needs  statement it completed formed the basis  
of the questions that its call handlers  ask when arranging a contract  of insurance. And this 
isnt unusual. So Ive looked at this to get an indication of what I think might have been  
asked.
The statement  of fact records that Mr Bs brother was the registered  owner  of the car and 
Mr B was the registered keeper. I note Mr B has said the call handler told him he had to put 
it down this way to get the insurance.  But, other  than what Mr B has told us, I dont have 
anything to support  this. Insurance  brokers are aware of the implications of providing false  
and misleading  information to an insurer as part of an insurance application. While it is of 
course possible the call handler did say this, Im not persuaded he would have done. On 
balance, I think its most  likely Mr B would have said he was the registered keeper of the car. 
I dont think he would  have done this deliberately and its possible he did so as he 
misunderstood what was meant by the registered keeper. But I cant say SPL acted unfairly 
in this respect.
Mr B has also said he initially  approached SPL to insure his brother as the registered owner 
and keeper of the car, but SPL wasnt able to arrange insurance on this basis.  But I also 
dont have anything  to support this. SPL has advised  it doesnt  have any record of Mr Bs 
brothers driving history.  While this isnt, of course, evidence  it didnt  first look to take out 
insurance in Mr Bs brothers name, it does mean it doesnt have anything to support Mr Bs 
assertions it did do so. Ultimately, I havent seen enough to support Mr Bs assertions in this 
respect.
Ultimately, while I have  taken everything Mr B has said into account, I dont think  I have 
enough to say SPL was at fault for Mr B providing incorrect information  to the insurer.
SPL responded to say it didnt have  anything further  to add. Mr B didnt accept my 
provisional decision. He maintained SPL knew  throughout that he wasnt  the owner and 
keeper of the car and that he wanted to be the named  driver.  But he says the insurer  
wouldnt accept it like this, which is why he says SPL set the policy up as it did. He 
acknowledged he didnt  read the policy documents. But he said he wouldnt have understood 
what a keeper was in any event.
Mr B provided copies of correspondence he had with other brokers where  hed been 
declined quotes  for insurance because he said his brother was the owner and registered 
keeper of the car. But he says these  brokers didnt tell him why he was being declined.  Mr B 
also referred to an email from SPL where it told the insurer  on another policy  that he was the 
keeper of the car, even  though hed specifically  said he wasnt.  And he referred to a 
statement made by the broker  who said:
Although the schedule is in one name, we can work it either  way and have  in your name 
with your brother just noted as the financial interest if required.
Ref: DRN69426063my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Bs comments into account,  but Ive come to the same conclusion  as I did 
before. I had taken  the emails Mr B has provided  in response to my provisional decision  into 
account as they were  provided before. The issue remains one where I need to think whether 
I think SPL is at fault for the insurer  having incorrect information.
We cant know for certain what was discussed, which is made  harder due to the passage  of 
time thats  passed.  So I have to base my decision on what  I think  was most likely to have 
happened based on the available  evidence  including  what Mr B has told us and the emails 
hes provided.
Theres no dispute Mr B told SPL his brother owned the car, but SPL says Mr B said he was 
the registered keeper of the car. As I said in my provisional decision  SPL has advised me 
that the demands and needs statement it completed formed the basis of the questions that 
its call handlers ask when  arranging a contract of insurance. And, on balance, I think  this is 
likely to be the case. The demands  and needs  statement  says Owner and registered keeper 
 [brother] is registered owner and [Mr B] is the registered keeper. 
I think its most likely  that SPL asked  Mr B if he was the registered keeper of the car and 
Mr B said he was. Im satisfied that asking who the registered keeper of the car was is a 
sufficiently clear question.  Im conscious Mr B has said to us I did not know at that time by 
putting me as a keeper  was not only factually incorrect but I would not be covered God forbid 
a claim was to be made. I think a fair inference  from this, and the other supporting 
documentation, is that its most likely  Mr B did say he was the registered keeper of the car.
As I said above, I dont  think  Mr B did this deliberately. But the issue  for me to decide is 
whether SPL was at fault for the insurer being given incorrect  information.  And I dont think  it 
was in this case.  Im satisfied that it asked  Mr B a sufficiently clear  question,  which Mr B 
answered incorrectly. If Mr B didnt understand what he was being asked, I think it was his 
responsibility to clarify what  SPL meant  by this.
Mr B says hes been told the insurer would have declined any claim hed made, so he should 
be entitled to a refund of the premiums hes paid for the policies. But, as I dont think  SPL is 
at fault for the insurer having incorrect information,  I cant require it to refund this. Mr B may 
wish to complain to the insurer directly, if he hasnt  already done so, if he feels  hes entitled 
to a premium refund.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ref: DRN69426064ombudsman
Ref: DRN6942606