K820x#14complaint
Miss G and Mrs G have  complained that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss G and Mrs G were  sold the PPI in 1993 at the same time as arranging the mortgage in 
a branch meeting. Although it was a joint mortgage,  the policy was set up just to cover Miss 
G for unemployment only.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss G and Mrs G disagree with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Miss G and Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss G and Mrs G originally said that they didnt know they had PPI. More recently they have 
said they were told by Santander  that the PPI was compulsory with the mortgage.  Clearly 
these two statements  are at odds with each  other.  Overall Im not persuaded that Ms G and 
Mrs G have any strong recollection of the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago it 
took place.
Miss G and Mrs G have  said that the advisor filled in the forms for them  and it is not either of 
them that has ticked the yes box in the PPI section of the mortgage application form. All the 
ticks on the form are of a uniform computerised  type. As was typical of mortgage  interviews,  
the advisor would  have  asked the applicants questions, which  were  then inputted  onto the 
computer and the form was then printed off afterwards.
Miss G and Mrs G say that the advisor ticked for an endowment mortgage, which  was 
wrong. They had to ask to change it to a repayment  mortgage, which  was done. It seems 
that they were  able to correct that error  very quickly, so there was no lasting detriment. Im 
not persuaded that this error indicates  that there was also a fault in setting up the PPI. Thats  
because Miss G and Mrs G also completed  a separate PPI application  form  which  was 
signed six days after they had signed the mortgage application form.
Santander was offering  24 months  free unemployment cover.  Looking  at the PPI application 
form, Miss G has ticked to accept the free unemployment cover. But she declined the offer of 
additional cover  for accident and sickness that she would have had to pay for. If Miss G and 
Mrs G werent  being given a choice about having  the policy,  I might have expected  them to 
have been signed up for the full level of cover that they had to pay for immediately, rather  
than just the free element.
Santander took payments for PPI separately  from mortgage payments. So Miss G and/or 
Mrs G would also have had to sign a direct debit mandate form.
Ref: DRN65140412Ive thought about what Miss G and Mrs G have said, but overall Im not persuaded that they 
didnt know about  or werent given a choice  about buying the policy. It seems  to me that they 
probably decided  to buy it, knowing they didnt  have to, even if they no longer remember 
doing so.
Santander advised Miss G and Mrs G to take out the policy.  Therefore,  in recommending it 
to them,  it needed  to ensure that it met their needs.  And from what I know  of their 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
The policy was set up to cover Miss G only. As she was the greater earner (according to the 
mortgage application form) it seems  reasonable that she was the one being  covered.
Miss G cant  remember what  sick pay her employer would have given her at the time. But 
that doesnt matter  as the policy only covered Miss G for unemployment.  And Miss G and 
Mrs G didnt have any other means,  such as savings, to fall back on. So I think  Miss G had a 
need for the policy and could have benefitted from it  not forgetting that it was actually free 
for the first two years.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the 
PPI, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss G wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think they had an interest  in the policy and decided to agree to it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  them to change  their minds. So they are no 
worse off as a result of anything Santander  may have done  wrong,  so theres  nothing  
Santander needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Miss G and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Mrs G 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6514041