K820x#14Complaint
Mr R has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has unfairly declined to pay 
for any more treatment of his medical  condition under his private medical insurance policy.
Background
Mr R has a private medical insurance policy with AXA. In March 2018  he suffered a serious  
injury which  required extensive treatment.
AXA agreed to cover the treatment, which included physiotherapy. However, in 
September 2018 AXA said it wasnt prepared  to cover the cost of any further treatment. This 
was because it considered Mr Rs condition now fell within its chronic condition exclusion as 
hed had a lot of treatment  already and it was continuing indefinitely.
Mr R appealed  he provided a report from his physiotherapist, Mr J, which  explained his 
injury was acute and was responding well to treatment. He estimated Mr R would need 
another six  nine months of treatment  to return to his pre-injury state. Mr R also raised 
some concerns about misleading information given over the phone  and that AXA had 
declined to pay an invoice  for earlier treatment.
AXA didnt change  its decision about withdrawing  further cover. It said Mr Rs condition 
required rehabilitation, meaning  it fell within its definition  of a chronic condition. However, it 
agreed with the service  issues Mr R had raised.  It paid him total compensation of £300.
Mr R referred  his complaint to our service. He added that hed experienced a number  of 
difficulties with AXA over the years, details of which he provided for context regarding the 
level of service he generally experiences. However,  his main concern was that AXA had 
unfairly withdrawn cover  for his ongoing  treatment.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied it was reasonable for AXA not 
to cover any further treatment. This was because his policy only covered treatment for acute 
conditions that respond quickly to treatment.  According to Mr Js report, Mr R had been 
undergoing treatment for six months and would  require  a further six to nine months of 
treatment. The investigator  didnt think his condition could now reasonably be described  as 
responding quickly to treatment. The investigator  also thought it was fair to characterise the 
condition as chronic because it required rehabilitation. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said there wasnt any definition  of quickly  within  the policy  terms so 
there wasnt any basis for withdrawing  the cover. Mr R provided further evidence from a 
surgeon, Mr B and a physiotherapist, Mr W. Mr B said Mr Rs injury was acute and the 
treatment was for the remaining  symptoms of it. He didnt agree it was chronic.  Mr W said 
that AXAs definition  of chronic was clinically questionable. He thought the decision to 
withdraw cover was negligent. He also believed Mr Rs condition  was acute.
AXA was provided  with copies of each  report,  but neither persuaded it to change its 
decision. The investigator also wasnt minded to change his opinion  so the case has been 
passed to me to make final decision on the matter.
Ref: DRN65745892My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 3 of Mr Rs membership guide  explains that his membership covers eligible 
treatment. This is defined as treatment  of a disease,  illness  or injury  where  that treatment is 
of an acute condition . An acute condition is defined in the membership  guide  as:
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment that aims to return  
you to the state  of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or that leads  to your full recovery.
The policy also says that treatment of chronic  conditions is excluded. This is defined as:
a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
It needs ongoing or long-term  monitoring through consultations, 
examinations, check-ups  or tests.
It needs ongoing or long-term  control or relief of symptoms.
It requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it.
It has no known cure.
It comes back or is likely to come back.
So, the key issue  for me to determine is whether it was fair for AXA to categorise Mr Rs 
condition as chronic and withdraw cover for further  treatment.
Its clear that AXA initially  considered Mr Rs condition to be acute  it accepted the claim on 
this basis. However, it says the condition can no longer be considered  acute and it is now 
chronic. It feels  this is supported by the weight  of evidence provided by Mr Rs treating 
health professionals.
Ive reviewed Mr Js report  dated  27 September 2018. In the report  Mr J describes Mr Rs 
treatment plan as Progressive Gym and Hydro based Rehabilitation. He describes the 
usual timeframe for recovery from an injury of this nature and explains  that Mr R is 
progressing well. Its also clear that the treatment is expected  to lead Mr R to a full recovery. 
However, he also says that it would  be disabling for Mr Rs rehabilitation/physiotherapy to 
stop treatment now.  Its clear to me that Mr J considers  Mr Rs treatment is rehabilitation. As 
this is one of the features that AXA deems  to be feature  of a chronic condition, I think it was 
reasonable for it to maintain its decision to withdraw  cover based on this evidence.
Ive considered Mr Bs evidence, which is quite brief. It says:
I disagree with your private  insurance company about this being a chronic problem. This is 
still the sequelae of a severe acute injury  and requires acute ongoing treatment rather than 
becoming a chronic  condition.
I dont think this adds  much.  It isnt in dispute that Mr Rs injury was acute  this is why the 
claim was accepted. However,  over time an acute condition can become chronic.  In this 
case, Mr Rs acute  injury was treated with surgery. However, the ongoing physiotherapy is a 
form of rehabilitation,  which makes  the condition chronic under the terms of Mr Rs policy. 
Ref: DRN65745893Ive reviewed the report from Mr W. Mr W raises concerns  about  AXAs  definition  of chronic. 
However, this definition is the definition used across the private  medical insurance industry, 
which is approved  by the Association of British  Insurers. I also dont think its inherently 
unreasonable for AXA or any healthcare insurer to put a limit on what it considers to be 
eligible treatment. Both parties  only contracted to cover acute conditions and/or acute flare-
ups rather than chronic  conditions. But I accept this chronic definition is likely to be different 
to the way a clinician might classify  an illness  or injury.
Mr W also comments that Mr Rs response to treatment was ahead  of expectations and 
quicker than expected for this type of injury.  Nevertheless, he still referred to Mr Rs 
treatment as rehabilitation. So, Im still satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to determine 
Mr Rs condition had become chronic.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr R and I hope that he continues to recover  well 
from his injury. I appreciate this leaves him in a difficult position, but I dont think  I can say 
AXA has treated  him unfairly.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6574589