K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that MMP Financial  Limited,  trading as Swift Sterling, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.  
background
Mr M took out the following  instalment  loans  with Swift Sterling:
date £ amount borrowed no. of instalments date repaid
119 August 2017 200 4 25 November 2017
226 November 2017 1,000 6 30 April 2018
35 May 2018 1,215 6 8 October 2018
Mr M says that he couldnt  afford to repay the loans  as he was heavily indebted and that a 
simple check of his credit  report would have  shown that he couldnt  afford  to borrow  further. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Swift Sterling was wrong to lend to Mr M. She said that it 
carried out proportionate checks before the loans and, based on what  Mr M said about his 
income and expenditure, it appeared that he could  make the repayments. She didnt think  
that earlier defaults wouldve been cause  for concern. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicator. He said that Swift Sterling should have seen his rising  
income and rising level of short-term debt, which would  have  indicated  that something odd 
was going on. Mr M said an individual whose  income goes up by £500 after tax doesnt 
usually take out more  payday loans. He said that if Swift Sterling had asked to see his bank 
statements it would have  seen the number of payday loans he had and his pattern of 
discretionary spending caused by an addiction. Mr M maintained  that Swift Sterling acted 
irresponsibly in lending  to him. He said that his continuous borrowing should  have  caused  
concern.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Swift Sterling needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as the amount of the loan, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Swift  Sterling should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
Ref: DRN69254222the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Swift Sterling was required to 
establish whether  Mr M could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer  should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Swift Sterling asked Mr M about  his income  and outgoings, including his other loan 
repayments. In the circumstances  here and given  the level of the instalments as against 
Mr Ms stated  income, I agree with the adjudicator  that Swift Sterlings checks were 
proportionate. 
Swift Sterling also carried  out a credit check.  I havent seen  the results of that, so I dont 
know exactly what it showed. However,  I can say that credit checks carried out by 
prospective lenders  dont  show  the same level of detail  that Mr M can see on his own credit 
report. Theres nothing  to show that Swift Sterling should have been aware  that Mr M had 
multiple other short-term  loans at the relevant time. I agree with the adjudicator that defaults 
some years ago wouldnt necessarily require Swift Sterling to do more  than it did. 
Given the pattern  of lending here,  there wasnt anything in the information Mr M gave to 
Swift Sterling, or in the information it should have been aware of, which meant  that it 
wouldve been proportionate to verify what Mr M said by, for example, asking to see his bank 
statements. I dont think that Swift  Sterling  was obliged to build up a more  detailed picture of 
Mr Ms financial situation. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mr M had an addiction. I dont  doubt this must  have  been  a challenging 
time for him. But Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that Swift Sterling was aware  of that, or ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware of it.
Ref: DRN69254223I dont think the number of instalment loans Mr M took out with Swift Sterling, the level of 
repayments or the period  of time he was borrowing  meant  that his loan history, in itself,  
shouldve shown Swift Sterling that Mr M might be experiencing  underlying financial 
difficulty. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold his 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6925422