K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that charges Mercedes-Benz  Financial  Services  UK Limited (MBFS) applied 
for damage  to his car at the end of his hire period are unreasonable.  He would like the 
charges reduced  in line with other  quotes  he has obtained.
background
Mr N says he took out a Hire Purchase  (HP) Agreement with MBFS in October  2016.  He 
says the agreement was for two years.  Prior to the end of the contract he says he an 
approved dealership told him he wouldnt be charged for the alloy wheels as this was fair 
wear and tear.
Mr N says MBFS charged him £850  for not having the car serviced  prior to return. But Mr N 
says the car wasnt due a service. He says he was also charged £2,089.90 for replacement  
alloy wheels. He said he offered to pay £220 but MBFS declined this offer.  He feels  the 
charges are disproportionate. And added he didnt  sign inspection report as he didnt  agree  
with them.
MBFS said it waived the charge  for the service (£850) as Mr N said a service  hadnt been 
requested. It didnt accept  Mr Ns offer of £220 for damage to the alloy wheels. It said Mr N 
would have received a copy of it Vehicle Return Standards at the start of the hire period. So 
he would  have been aware  of what was fair wear and tear. And would have had ample 
opportunity to make good any repairs himself. But hadnt done so.
It offered  to reduce the amount outstanding by 20% to £1,671.84. But said it would reserve 
the right to pursue the full amount if Mr N didnt  accept this offer.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found the damage assessed as chargeable 
was in line with British Vehicle Rental and Licensing Association (BVRLA) guidelines. And 
said, in relation to the charges themselves, that we had no control  over those.
MBFS accepted this view but Mr N didnt.
Mr N said he didnt feel the investigators conclusion was in line with the stated aims of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  of companies having  to treat consumers fairly.  He felt this 
was at odds with our investigator stating he couldnt say if the charges were  fair.
Our investigator considered Mr Ns point but didnt  change  his view. He confirmed we 
couldnt advise  on how much a company can charge. We can only look at whether  the 
charges were fair and reasonable under BVRLA  guidelines.
Mr N wasnt happy with this response. He said that the BVRLA guidelines  dont mention 
charges. That the charges were applied  by MBFS. And he questioned how replacing  a wheel 
for cosmetic reasons is fair.
Our investigator confirmed he meant that we can only assess damage not charges. And in 
response to a request from Mr N for proof MBFS had replaced  the alloys he explained that 
MBFS didnt have to provide  proof  of this.
Ref: DRN66151172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N feels strongly  about this and I do understand why. He has been charged  a significant 
amount  over £2,000 for damage that he doesnt  feel is fair. So I do appreciate Mr N is 
going to be disappointed as Ive reached  the same conclusion as our investigator.
I have seen the inspection report and accompanying photos.  MBFS inspects  its car with 
reference to BVRLA  guidelines which is standard industry practice. Our investigator 
referenced each area of damage to the relevant  BVRLA  guidance so I am not going to 
repeat that here. 
I have however considered each area of damage and would agree with our investigators  
view that MBFS  was reasonable to make charges in each of these cases as the damage fell 
outside BVRLA guidelines  for fair wear and tear.
I have seen the contract Mr N signed and the accompanying terms and conditions which 
include the Vehicle Returns Standards. These  are very detailed  and make it clear what falls 
under fair wear and tear and what doesnt.  
I appreciate Mr N has told us he had the car inspected by an approved dealership  and was 
told he wouldnt be charged for damage to the alloy wheels as this would be seen as fair 
wear and tear. Ive no reason  to disbelieve what Mr N has told us. But I have  no evidence to 
support that.
In terms of the amount MBFS has charged I know  Mr N feels strongly he would like some 
evidence that MBFS did replace  the alloy wheels. We havent asked for that because the 
BVRLA guidelines make it clear  that businesses can charge for appropriate damage but 
chose not to make any repairs.  Its a commercial decision for a business to take as to what it 
does with a car when  returned. It can choose  to sell on, unrepaired, accepting a loss. Or 
make good  any damage.
I appreciate Mr N has given us a quote  for £360 to repair the wheels. Mr Ns car was 
collected in 2018; the quote was based  on photos  of the alloy wheels and given in 2019. It 
may well be that quote might have been  different had the company seen the car. Also the 
quote seems to be for a repair whereas MBFS assessed the wheels as beyond repair and 
needing replacement.  So its not a like for like comparison  with the charge  MBFS has 
applied.
It could well be that Mr N could have  had the wheels  replaced at a lower  cost than MBFS 
charged. I think the contract he signed made  it clear  about the expected condition the car 
would be returned  in. So Mr N could have chosen  to have had his own inspection  carried 
out. And then sought to have repairs done  at an approved garage.  However  as Mr N didnt 
do this its hard to conclude that MBFSs charges are unfair since I have no like for like 
comparison to compare  against.
I havent seen  any evidence to show that MBFS was wrong to charge for the damage that it 
did. So on that basis I dont feel I can reasonably  ask it to reduce the charges.
Ref: DRN66151173I am aware  that MBFS did offer to reduce the amount owing by 20%.  I understand that offer 
is still available. I leave  it to Mr N to decide he wishes to take this offer up or not.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited has made a fair offer
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6615117