K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance policy (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out when Mrs S applied  at the bank for a credit 
card in February 2001. The policy  protected Mrs Ss credit card monthly  repayments  if she 
couldnt work.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs S mainly  says that Lloyds didnt make her aware that PPI would be applied to her card 
repayments and she didnt need PPI as she had other means  of financial support. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
There were Yes and No PPI options on the form Mrs S signed to get her credit card and 
she ticked to say she wanted PPI. So I find Lloyds made Mrs S aware that the PPI was 
optional and she made it clear on the application that she wanted to take out the PPI. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs S, and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs S doesnt appear to have had significant  other  means to make  her credit card 
repayments if she couldnt work. Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money 
problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. 
Being entitled to a redundancy package from her employer wouldnt have helped Mrs S if 
she was of work sick.
Having PPI meant Mrs S wasnt  at risk of being forced to sell her car  perhaps when she 
mightnt get as much  as she hoped for. And I cant be sure that she wouldve been able to 
sell her car for enough  money  to pay her credit card bill.
And although Mrs S mentioned having other  cover  in place,  this doesnt affect my decision. 
I havent seen  anything to show that this policy duplicated existing cover.  The other cover 
shes told us about provided a different sort of benefit and paid out in different circumstances 
to PPI. 
I appreciate that Mrs S says she had equity in her home. But I dont think  its likely shed 
have wanted to put her house at risk by borrowing against her home to cover monthly credit 
card bills.
Ref: DRN64010582The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. If shed still been unemployed after the policy  had 
paid out for 11 months, it wouldve paid off the outstanding balance  on her credit  card.  
Overall, I find that her circumstances meant PPI was suitable for Mrs S. 
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  Mrs S wouldnt have been  covered  for a medical condition she had when 
she took out the policy. But, based on what shes told us, I dont think  Mrs S wouldve had 
any reason to expect  at the time that shed  be likely  to take any significant time off work 
because of her condition. This means  she wouldve had no reason to think shed want to 
claim under the policy for any absence from work related to this. And, even if that mightve  
been something she thought was a possibility, shed  still have had all the other policy  
benefits. So I dont  think better information about  the policys limitations  wouldve affected  
Mrs Ss decision to take out PPI. 
Mrs S chose to take out the policy when  she didnt have to and so she appears to have 
wanted this type of cover at the time.  Mrs S was eligible for the PPI. I dont think  its likely 
that the PPI cost was made  clear  to Mrs S when  she bought the policy.  But, from what Ive 
seen, theres nothing to suggest Mrs S had difficulty affording  the monthly premiums. Mrs S 
couldve cancelled the policy  at any time if she didnt  want to keep on paying  for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mrs S still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as PPI 
gave her useful protection in her particular  situation.
I dont find that Mrs S has lost out as a result  of anything that Lloyds mightve done wrong. 
So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6401058