K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC miscalculated or mis-timed the initial  payment 
due under his mortgage. He considers the first contractual payment (including interest and 
capital repayment) should have covered the period from 10 November  to 10 December and 
subsequent payments should each cover  a 30 day period until the 62nd  payment (for the 
fixed interest period).
Alternatively, if payment  has to be on calendar  month basis,  then the first payment (for the 
period 10 to 30 November) should  include interest and capital repayment. The 62nd payment 
would have to be for 10 days and include interest  and capital repayment.
In both above scenarios Barclays would be paid interest for the whole fixed  interest period.
The way interest  is currently calculated means  that he would  pay 62 contractual payments 
(for the fixed interest period) plus £301.01 for interest covering the period from 10 to 30 
November, which seems  to him to be an overpayment.
background
Mr F completed his Barclays capital repayment  mortgage on 9 November 2018. There  was 
an initial fixed-interest product. He subsequently complained to Barclays because  he was 
unhappy with its method  of applying interest  and calculating the repayments.
In response to his complaint Barclays said the interest would be calculated  each month,  from 
the first to the end of the calendar month as explained in the mortgage terms and conditions 
(T&Cs). 
Barclays said it would start to charge interest from the day after the money  was advanced. 
Mr Fs money  was released on 9 November 2018. This meant Barclays had charged daily 
interest from 10 November 2018.
When it applied the debit interest  it would add the total for each calendar month.  On Mr Fs 
mortgage, for the month  of November 2018  it would apply the total of debit interest 
calculated from 10 November 2018 to 30 November 2018. For the month of December 2018 
it would  apply the total of debit interest calculated from 1 December 2018 to 31 December 
2018, and so on for each calendar  month.
Barclays said Mr F hadnt been overcharged. It had charged daily interest starting on 
10 November 2018 which was correct. The mortgage offer stated it would add the interest  
due from the date of completion to the end of that month to Mr Fs first payment.  The number 
of contractual  monthly payments for the duration  of the mortgage would remain the same.
Barclays said that having listened  to some of the calls Mr F made,  it had noted  the service  
he had received wasnt efficient and it apologised  for this. It felt it hadnt provided Mr F with 
clear and concise  answers, and the agents  showed a lack of knowledge which  meant Mr F 
had had to spend a long time on these  calls which was unnecessary.
In recognition of the distress and inconvenience  caused and the poor service  Mr F had 
received, Barclays had credited his account with £100.00.
Ref: DRN69155812Mr F wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to this service.  He said the first 
payment should  cover  the period from 10 November to 10 December and subsequent 
payments should  each  cover a period of 30 days.
Alternatively, if payment  had to be on calendar month basis, then the first payment  (for the 
period 10 to 30 November) should  include interest and capital repayment. The last payment 
would have to be for 10 days and would  include interest and capital repayment. In both 
cases Barclays would be paid interest for the whole of the fixed  interest period.
The way Barclays had calculated  the interest meant  that he would make 62 contractual 
payments (for the fixed interest period) plus £301.01 for interest covering the period from 
10 to 30 November which seemed to him to be an overpayment.
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Fs complaint be upheld.  He said the way Barclays 
had added interest to the first payment was common practice among most mortgage 
providers. The investigator  didnt think the practice  was wrong and didnt agree Mr F had 
been overcharged. The T&Cs said interest was charged daily from the day after the money 
was advanced.  So interest was charged from 10 to 30 November which was 21 days.  So 
£301.01 was owed under  the contract  for that period. 
However the way the mortgage worked  was clearly set out in the offer letter and the T&Cs, 
and Mr F also received advice from a mortgage  broker. If he didnt agree, the proper time to 
raise his concerns  would have been before he bound himself to the terms Barclays offered. 
The investigator thought it would be unfair to ask Barclays  to change  the terms of the 
mortgage after an agreement had been reached. In any case, the mortgage terms allowed 
overpayments of up to 10%. So Mr F could  have made a capital payment for November if he 
wished.
Mr F didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.  He said the T&Cs 
werent clear  on how the first payment date was set. They said: "the first monthly  payment 
may be higher  if your first payment is in the month  after the month we give you the loan". He 
had agreed with Barclays a payment date of 22nd of each month. The first payment date 
was 16 December. 
He wasnt clear why the first payment wasnt in the month he was given the loan (whether 
16th or 22nd) and there was nothing which explained this in the T&Cs. Because of the first 
payment date he ended up paying  £300 extra in interest. 
Condition 6 said that interest  was due from the date of completion which was 
13 November 2018 but he was charged  interest from 10 November 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The offer letter dated 29 August 2018 says: "Your first payment will include interest due from 
the date of completion to the end of that month which will be added to your normal  payment  
in the following month."
Ref: DRN69155813The T&Cs say: "... we will add the interest  payable  in the month we gave you your loan to 
your first monthly  payment which will be in the following month."
Debiting interest from the date of the advance to the end of that month, and including  that 
interest in the first monthly  payment seems  reasonable  to me, as well as being in 
accordance with the T&Cs,  and Mr F hasnt persuaded me that this is unfair to him. Nor do I 
understand why he considers that it has cost him an additional £300 interest. Interest will 
always be payable from the date the money  is lent until the date it is finally repaid.
Its Barclays policy that regardless of what date the loan is completed,  the first payment will 
always be on the 16th of the following month. This applies to all Barclays  mortgages,  not just 
Mr Fs. 
Completion in paragraph 6 of the offer letter means the day after the money is sent to the 
borrowers solicitors. That is, the day after Barclays parts  with the money.  This isnt 
necessarily the day on which the borrowers  solicitors complete the conveyancing 
transactions.
Ive considered everything provided  but am not persuaded that Barclays has treated Mr F 
unfairly or made any error.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6915581