K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company  Limiteds  handling of her 
claim made under a legal expenses insurance  policy. 
Where I refer to DAS, this includes their agents  and claims  handlers.
background
Mrs B discovered that all the contents of her garage were missing. The missing items  were 
worth around £6,000  and some of them had sentimental value. She says she later found out 
that a solicitors firm T who were  doing the conveyancing for a neighbouring  property had 
arranged for her garage to be cleared in error. 
Mrs B made a claim to DAS, she wanted  to take legal action against T in relation to the 
missing property. DAS asked Mrs B the nature of any relationship between her and T and 
how they came to have  keys to her garage. Mrs B explained that she had never instructed T 
in any way and she didnt know how they came  to have keys to her garage.  
Based on this DAS declined  the claim. They said that as there was no contract between  T 
and Mrs B, it couldnt be considered under the contract disputes section of the policy.  When 
Mrs B challenged this DAS looked again and said they could consider the claim under the 
property protection  part of the policy. 
DAS asked one of their panel solicitors D to look at the claim.  D said that it was likely a 
trespass had taken place.  But they didnt think there were reasonable prospects of success  
for a claim of trespass. They also said that there could be a claim for Tort of Conversion 
which very broadly  speaking is when someone  takes your property for themselves  or acts 
like something you own belongs to them. But this isnt something the policy provides cover 
for. 
Mrs B wasnt  happy with this and complained  to DAS.  When  DAS maintained the claim had 
been correctly  declined Mrs B referred  her complaint to our service. One of our investigators  
didnt think it should be upheld. She sympathised  with Mrs Bs position but she didnt think 
DAS had acted  unfairly.  
As she still disagrees, Mrs B has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know  this is likely to be disappointing for 
Mrs B, so Id like to explain why. 
Mrs Bs legal expenses  cover with DAS is part of her home contents insurance.  Its common  
for different sections  of a policy to be underwritten  by different insurers. In this case DAS 
underwrite the legal expenses insurance  and so are the correct respondent for this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN65133272If Mrs B wishes to make a claim under the contents  section of her policy in relation to her 
property, she should contact that insurer directly.  I can see our investigator  has previously 
given Mrs B some guidance in this regard. 
Mrs Bs policy with DAS (subject to the terms and conditions) provides cover for a number of 
insured events. DAS explained that there is no cover under the contract disputes section as 
Mrs B has no agreement  or alleged agreement with T. I agree this is the case.
But DAS did go on to consider the claim under the Property Protection section of the policy. 
This says We will cover the costs and expenses for you or your familys legal rights 
following any nuisance or trespass 
 
As an insurer, DAS arent legal experts themselves. So I think  it is fair for them to rely upon  
suitably qualified legal opinion when making  decisions  about  a claim, unless that opinion is 
obviously wrong. 
D said that a claim for the removal of Mrs Bs property would be considered as a tort of 
conversion. I dont think this is obviously wrong,  and I think  it is fair for DAS to rely on this 
information from D. And as the policy doesnt provide cover for this, I have no basis upon 
which to ask DAS to further  consider  the claim. This isnt to say that Mrs B doesnt have a 
valid claim against T, she may well do. But just that the costs and expenses of pursuing a 
claim of this nature isnt something the policy provides cover for. 
Like most legal  expenses insurance policies, Mrs Bs policy  includes  the requirement  that 
any claim must have reasonable prospects of success. I dont think this is inherently  unfair.  
Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client  wouldnt generally continue a case  
when advised  against it, so I dont  think an insurer should have to either.
D concluded that there werent reasonable prospects of success  in bringing a claim of 
trespass. They also pointed out that this would not result in compensation with regard to the 
missing property, which seems to be the crux of Mrs Bs concern. 
Having read the legal opinion from D, I dont think it is obviously wrong. So I again  think it is 
fair for DAS to rely upon it when declining to further fund Mrs Bs claim. DAS did explain that 
if Mrs B had further evidence to support  her case then she could send it to them  and they 
would reassess. They  also offered to further consider her claim if she could provide a 
supportive barristers opinion that there  is a greater  than 51% chance  of success. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs B, who has lost some  of her property through no 
fault of her own. But I can only consider the actions  of DAS in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And based on all Ive seen, I think theyve acted within the policy terms and fairly, 
so Im not upholding  the complaint or directing that they need  to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Ref: DRN65133273Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6513327