K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about poor service  from Clydesdale Bank PLC (trading as Yorkshire Bank) 
when he wanted  to take money from his account.
background
Mr M wanted to take some money out of his account, but Yorkshire Bank carried out a 
number of checks before paying the money.  Mr M thought this was unreasonable.
The branch  closed for the evening while Mr M was there, and the door was locked.  Mr M 
was unhappy  about this too, as he considered it a safety risk. 
Our investigator didnt  think Yorkshire  Bank had done anything  wrong.  Yorkshire Bank had 
said Mr M wasnt known to the branch staff and the account hadnt been open  for very long. 
Given the amount  of money Mr M wanted to take out, the investigator didnt think  it was 
unreasonable for the bank  to authorise the transaction before paying the money. 
Yorkshire Bank had said its actions  werent  intended to upset  Mr M, and it was sorry if this 
had been the case. 
Keeping in mind  Mr Ms particular circumstances, the investigator  could  see why he might 
have been distressed when the branch door was locked. But the investigator concluded that 
Mr M was in the branch at closing time, so he didnt  consider it unreasonable for Yorkshire 
Bank to follow its usual procedure for closing. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators conclusions. In particular,  he considered locking  the 
branch while  he was still there created  a health and safety issue. The investigator explained 
that this wasnt something we could look at further,  because a banks closing procedures  are 
not a regulated financial activity for the purpose  of our rules.
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, like the investigator  I am satisfied  that the checks Yorkshire  Bank made to 
verify Mr Ms transaction were reasonable. 
Mr Ms account had been open for a relatively  short period of time,  and he had recently 
changed his name by deed poll. As Mr M wasnt known to branch staff,  and keeping in mind  
the amount he wanted to take out of his account,  I think it was reasonable for Yorkshire 
Bank to make  further checks before paying the money. 
As the investigator  has explained, the banks procedure for evening closing isnt a regulated  
financial activity for the purpose of our rules. So I wont be making any findings  on whether 
there were health and safety issues created by Yorkshire Bank  closing and locking the 
branch while  Mr M was there.
Ref: DRN67102272my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6710227