K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about a number of problems hes experienced with his TSB Bank  plc 
account cards.
background 
Mr H says he has two TSB accounts and that hes had problems with the account cards 
since April 2018. He says the cards  have been replaced on a number of occasions  and as a 
result of what happened hes lost nearly £10,000 in lost earnings as a result of giving up 
work to attend a branch.  Mr H says hes provided details of the lost earnings  and would like 
compensation for that amount.
TSB says Mr H told it about problems with his account cards in February  2019  and that the 
problems had started in October 2018. It says it initially  paid Mr H £53 compensation but 
accepts there were further problems with the account cards and that there was a delay in 
Mr H receiving new ones.
Mr H brought his complaint to us with his detailed work records  over the last year or so. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint and upheld it. The investigator  accepted  Mr H had 
been caused inconvenience in attending a branch but thought Mr H could have attended it in 
between his work shifts  and so didnt think Mr H needed to give up his work. The investigator 
also thought the account terms and conditions said TSB would not be liable for any business 
losses which he thought  these were.
The investigator thought TSB should pay Mr H £300 compensation which it has agreed to 
do.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and says he couldnt  go into a branch to withdraw  money at 
any other time. He says even his local branch is embarrassed at the compensation offer and 
he regards the offer as an insult.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened.
I appreciate Mr H says these problems started in April 2018 but having looked at TSBs  
records I dont think that was the case.  I say that as I cant see any record  that Mr H 
complained to TSB about the account  card difficulties  until February 2019 and having looked  
at his account statements I think there were regular account transactions during 2018  into 
the start of 2019. I can see that Mr H raised  the issue at the end of 2018 but didnt wish to do 
anything about  it at that time.
There is no dispute here that Mr H did not have the use of his account  cards for a significant 
period of time in 2019. I have no doubt Mr H was caused distress  and inconvenience  in 
attending a TSB branch to withdraw  money and in re-ordering account  cards.  So the key 
issue is what the fair and reasonable level of compensation should be. I appreciate  Mr H 
says he gave up work to attend a TSB branch but I agree with the investigator that Mr H 
could have attended between shifts or attended  a branch on days  he was not working. I can 
Ref: DRN65000872also see that the account terms and conditions which I think Mr H would have  agreed  to 
when the account was opened make clear  that TSB is not responsible for any business 
losses. So I dont think TSB should reasonably repay Mr H for any loss of earnings that he 
may have  suffered during  the course  of running  his business.
Im satisfied that £300 compensation  in addition to the £53 compensation already  paid is fair 
and reasonable and reflects  fairly the length  of time Mr H waited for this matter to be sorted 
out. I think that amount fairly reflects  the level of TSBs mistake and the impact and 
inconvenience it had upon Mr H. I appreciate that Mr H will be remain unhappy with my 
decision and so I will leave it to him to decide if he wishes to accept  TSBs  offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of £300 
compensation. Mr Hs acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6500087