K822xcomplaint
Mr L says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about thirteen payday loans that Quick Quid  provided  to Mr L from January 
2012 onwards.  Mr Ls last loan was provided in November  2013.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ls complaint  about  loans three, four to ten, and twelve  and 
thirteen. So he thought  that Mr L shouldnt have been provided with these loans.  
Quick Quid didnt agree with our adjudicator and demanded that he present this offer to    
Mr L before  passing  the case to an ombudsman. But as the parties  werent in agreement  the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Before I turn to the substance of this dispute, I want to say how disappointed I am to see that 
despite the thousands of adjudicator assessments  and ombudsman decisions it has 
received, Quick Quid still doesnt appear  to understand how our dispute resolution process 
works. To be clear  and for the avoidance of doubt,  once an assessment is issued, Quick 
Quid knows what our initial thoughts are on the complaint. And if it wishes to settle the 
matter it should  accept the assessment  in full. 
I dont consider it fair, reasonable or appropriate for it to make a substandard offer to settle 
matters, in full knowledge  of the fact its not in line with what we would recommend, and then 
demand it be presented  to a consumer for acceptance. This is especially the case when it 
has been told the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman. So I find Quick  Quids  
continued intransigence incredibly disappointing and would encourage it to constructively 
engage with our dispute resolution process,  as per its regulatory  obligation  to do so.
I now turn to the substance of Mr Ls complaint itself.   
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN65961302the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three, twelve  and thirteen 
would more likely than not have shown that:
the total repayment required for these loans  took up a significant  proportion of Mr Ls 
monthly income. In these  circumstances,  there was a significant risk that Mr L 
wouldnt have been able to repay these loans without undue difficulty  or borrowing 
further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr L, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr L was unlikely to have been able to make  
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan four. I say this 
because:
by this stage Mr L had owed Quick Quid money for a year.  There  were a number of 
deferrals on loan three and loan four was for not much less than what Mr Ls actions 
appear to suggest that he was finding  difficult to repay. In my view,  Mr L owing Quick 
Quid money for this period of time,  in these  circumstances, was in itself a clear 
demonstration of Mr Ls inability to settle his loans over the life of the credit 
agreement.  
Mr L was provided with loans four to ten over a period that cannot reasonably be 
described as short-term. And, in my view,  Mr L paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service an increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mr L lost out because Quick Quid provided these loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time he owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Mr Ls ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint about  loans three, four to ten, and twelve and thirteen and 
Quick Quid should  put things right.
Ref: DRN65961303putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L loans three, four to ten, and twelve and thirteen;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ls credit  file  as a result of loans 
three, twelve and thirteen;
the period  of time Mr L owed Quick  Quid money means that any information still 
recorded about loans four to ten is adverse. So all entries about these loans (where  
they remain) should be removed from Mr Ls credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  Casheuronet  UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr L compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6596130