K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2007. 
Mrs S says Capital Credit Union Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the time thats passed since this sale, theres some uncertainty  over how the policy 
was sold. As Mrs S thinks  that the policy was sold in a meeting, Ive also considered a 
meeting to be how the policy  was sold. Ive not considered that a recommendation was 
made to take PPI based on the example  paperwork from the sale. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I say this because  although I havent seen a copy of Mrs Ss credit card application 
form, Capital Credit  Union Limited have  shown us some example paperwork that 
they say is representative of what  Mrs S would have  seen at the time of sale. 
The example  demands  and needs document shows that there  were  three  options  for 
PPI. There was an option for accident,  sickness and unemployment cover,  an option 
for accident and sickness only and an option to decline PPI if it wasnt needed. A 
separate signature was also required on the form.
Ive considered what Mrs S has said about  being led to believe that PPI was 
compulsory. Although the paperwork  that was likely to have been used doesnt 
suggest that PPI was compulsory, I've also considered that Capital Credit Union 
Limited have said that Mrs S had a number of loans with them before this one and 
she hadnt previously  taken PPI. So I think that Mrs S would reasonably have known 
that PPI was optional and that she didnt have to take it.
Ive also noted  what Mrs S has said about feeling pressured to take PPI. But 
pressure can be subjective and what feels like pressure to one person may not to 
another. Ive not seen evidence to support  what Mrs S has said.
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Capital Credit Union Limited 
made it clear  that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
Capital Credit Union Limited didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the information 
she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Due to the time thats passed since this sale, the actual policy  document isnt 
available. So I've had to make  some reasonable assumptions about this policy based 
Ref: DRN61517312on my wider  knowledge of PPI policies sold over a longer  period of time alongside 
Mrs Ss circumstances. 
Its possible the information Capital Credit Union  Limited gave Mrs S about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover  and it could have paid out for longer than Mrs Ss 
full sick pay entitlement.  
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.       
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said - including what shes said about not needing 
PPI as she could  have relied  on her husband  to help her make her repayments. But although 
her husband  may have  wanted to help,  he may not have been in a position to help when  
needed as circumstances can change. So these points  dont  change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs S paid on her policy   and whether           
Capital Credit Union Limited treated her unfairly. 
Capital Credit Union Limited has told us that the commission for Mrs Ss policy was less than 
half of what she paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Capital Credit Union Limited 
has been working this out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ss 
commission was less than half the cost of the policy. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell her about the commission  so I dont think  
Capital Credit Union Limited treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs S 
back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6151731