K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain Bank of Scotland PLC (trading as Halifax) has closed their account 
when they have done nothing wrong. 
background
Mr and Mrs D had a joint bank account with Halifax. Mr D also had a business  account with 
the bank.
In August  2017  Halifax took the decision to close the joint bank account. 
Mr D complained to Halifax about  the closure of the account. Halifax issued a final response  
letter. It explained that its business  banking  team  had shared with it information which  
caused it not to want to continue its banking relationship. It explained  specifically what the 
information shared  was but I wont repeat that here. 
The investigator issued  two views. In summary, in the first view he said Halifax  was entitled 
to close Mr and Mrs Ds account  and to levy the charges it did. Although the investigator 
appreciated that it was inconvenient for Mr and Mrs D to have to attend a branch to carry out 
some transactions he didnt think this was unreasonable.
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators view. She raised some points which  werent about 
the decision to close the account  but were  about how the account  was operated  after the 
decision to close it. 
The investigator looked at these points  and issued a second  view again saying he didnt 
think Halifax had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed.  They raised a number of points  about matters which happened 
after the decision to close the account was made  broadly  to do with charges and access  to 
the account. Mrs D also felt it was unfair she has been penalised because of her husbands 
business. 
When the complaint  came  to me I raised a series  of questions with Halifax about  things  that 
happened after the decision to close the account  occurred.
Halifax felt that the initial  complaint was just about the decision to close the account.  It didnt 
feel - before they were looked  at by this service  - it had had the chance  to consider 
Mr and Mrs Ds concerns  about what happened  to the account  after the decision to close  it. 
Halifax therefore wanted these points to be considered in a separate complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has issued a second final response  letter about things that happened after the 
decision to close the account. In this letter it has said it has reimbursed charges and offered 
compensation. Mr and Mrs D have the option of asking this service to look at Halifaxs  
second final response letter and to determine whether it is a fair and reasonable response to 
the issues which occurred  after the decision to close the account.
Ref: DRN68573442Im going  to confine my decision here to the decision to close  the account. Banks are entitled  
to decide who they want to do business  with. They dont have to give reasons although I see 
they did here. The reason Halifax gave seems reasonable and therefore I dont intend  to 
uphold this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ds point that she has nothing to do with her husbands business. But 
this is a joint account and so I dont  think it was unreasonable for the bank to close the joint 
account even  if it had only decided it wanted to cease doing  business with one of the joint 
account holders.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6857344