K820x#14complaint
Mr L says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr L bought the policy  in August 2008  at the same time as taking  out a credit card.  He 
applied for the credit  card and PPI policy  over the internet. 
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as a technician. He has told us he was entitled  to sick pay 
worth less than three months pay, redundancy pay and that he had savings. Mr L has said 
he had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, disability and unemployment  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay 10% of Mr Ls credit card balance  in the event of a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
Mr Ls representative made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
Ill not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ls representative said:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ls representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NatWest should  have 
told Mr L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr L and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by our adjudicator, it was passed to me for a 
decision. Both parties have seen and had the opportunity to provide their responses  to my 
provisional decision. In it, I set out why I didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold. I also 
Ref: DRN67448932explained why I considered NatWests  offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  costs  fair in all the 
circumstances.
Both parties  confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision. Both Mr L and NatWest  said they 
had nothing more  to add.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI mis-sale 
complaints on our website  and published  some example final decisions  that set out in detail 
how these relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in August 2008 after the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005  and after the 
FSA renewed its insurance  conduct rules  in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
The credit agreement itself started  in 2008. That means the unfair relationship  provisions set 
out at s140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 
about s140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in the light of the Plevin  judgment, also 
apply. I will come back to this later on.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN67448933The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so NatWest was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr Ls complaint.
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether NatWest gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint about  the alleged  
mis-sale in favour of Mr L, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent 
Mr L suffered loss or damage and what I consider would  amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
-If I conclude Mr L has not suffered loss or damage and I propose  no award for the 
alleged mis-sale, I must  then go on to consider whether, in all the circumstances (and 
taking into account sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer  Credit Act, the 
Supreme Courts decision in Plevin , and the FCAs guidance at DISP  App 3), 
Ref: DRN67448934NatWest should  have disclosed the commission it received - and if it didnt,  what  
would be fair compensation in all the circumstances .
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and 
NatWest, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ls alleged mis-sale complaint. I have also 
considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission and Ive decided  that NatWest  should 
have disclosed the commission it received.  My findings are set out below. 
did Mr L know he had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr L recalls that the sale took place in a meeting  but Im satisfied from NatWests  records 
that it took place  over the internet. Unfortunately, NatWest hasnt been  able to provide 
information to indicate how the PPI might have  been presented to Mr L online. 
NatWest has, however,  provided a copy of the credit  card agreement it presented to Mr L 
following his online application.  The agreement  included  a section for Optional Insurance , 
including PPI. The box to take PPI was marked with what appears to be a printed tick, 
presumably based on the information he gave  previously online. Mr L then signed  separately 
to indicate he understood  what insurance products he was buying.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr L knew the PPI policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did NatWest provide  advice?
NatWest says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr L cant recall if it did. Given that the 
sale was made online,  and from experience of how NatWest  sold PPI in general, Im not 
persuaded that it provided advice.
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr L. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr L to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
NatWest has provided us with a copy of Mr Ls credit agreement   showing that PPI had 
been selected. It has also provided a copy of the paperwork it says he would have  received,  
including the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  
applied to policies  like Mr Ls. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr L at the time, I dont think NatWest gave Mr L the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  over the internet. I cant say for sure what Mr L saw but I think its 
unlikely Mr L would  have  agreed to take it out without  at least  having a broad understanding 
of the cover  it provided  i.e. life, disability and unemployment cover. And I think  its unlikely 
Mr L would  have thought it was free.
Ref: DRN67448935But it was NatWests responsibility to draw  to Mr Ls attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded NatWest did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr L, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that NatWest  adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NatWest ought to have done  either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr L? To what extent did Mr L suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found NatWest didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr L. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr L suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  
To answer  this, I must decide  whether  or not Mr L would  have  still taken out the policy, had 
NatWest done  things properly. 
Ref: DRN67448936Mr L says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr L had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr L chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr L thought  he was getting  is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr L has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr L ought reasonably  to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of of his outstanding  balance. 
But, I accept NatWest  didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mr L didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr L be unable to 
follow his normal occupation or similar  occupation which his education, training or 
ability reasonably  qualified him to follow.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr L pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  the policy  was not as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to him should 
the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr L says he had a medical condition 
when the PPI was taken  out, the policy didnt exclude cover  for existing medical conditions. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  hed have been caught  by any of the significant 
exclusions. So I still think he had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr L would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr L had known he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to follow both his normal 
occupation or one which  in the insurers view he might reasonably be qualified  for, it might 
Ref: DRN67448937have played into his thinking  about  what he would have done.  And I accept it may have 
given him pause  for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly concerned 
given that if Mr L was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own occupation the chances 
that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr L would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and savings. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mr Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr L wouldnt have bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr L 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude NatWest should pay Mr L compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done.
 
Ref: DRN67448938Im also aware that Mr L thinks  NatWest  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr L, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in August 2008 when providing information about an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find NatWest negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr L and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that NatWest had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr L in a better position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
So I dont  uphold the mis-sale element  of Mr Ls complaint.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the 
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Mr L to 
remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about 
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 (as I referred to earlier)  in the light of that 
case.
Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement) .
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  and 
matters relating to the debtor).
Mr L has made a number of representations about  the impact of the Plevin judgment and 
sections 140A and 140B  of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint. In summary, Mr L 
said that:
Ref: DRN67448939-NatWest failed to tell him about  the high commission and profit-share  rates  paid, the 
low claims ratio (the proportion of the premiums paid by policyholders used to pay 
claims), and the restrictions and exclusions on cover; and
-If NatWest  had told him about those things, he would not have taken out the policy,  
so he should get back all the money he paid by way of premium for the policy.
Ive considered those  representations carefully.  In doing so, Im mindful  of the following:
-When selling insurance,  the relevant insurance  codes  and the FCAs ICOB rules  did 
not specifically  require NatWest to tell Mr L about commission  or about the claims 
ratio (nor, for reasons Ive already explained, did the duty of utmost  good faith require 
that). As the FCA said when introducing its rules and guidance  to businesses for the 
handling of PPI complaints in the light of the Plevin judgment, the failure to disclose 
commission was not in breach of ICOB/ICOBS (or the industry  codes which 
preceded them) and would  not  in and of itself  have been a breach of FCAs 
Principles for Businesses. Those Principles include a requirement on businesses  to 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
-Where a court determines under section 140A that the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor  arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken with 
any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of (among other things) 
anything done,  or not done, by or on behalf of the creditor,  the court  has a range of 
powers available to it under section 140B. Those powers include altering the terms of 
the credit  agreement or any related  agreement,  requiring the creditor  to repay  sums 
paid by the debtor, and to reduce  or discharge any sums  payable.
-The Supreme  Court considered whether the non-disclosure of high commission  
levels might  produce  an unfair  relationship in the case  of Plevin. In that case,  the 
Supreme Court  concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission  could lead to 
an unfair relationship.
-Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty  that it created), the FCA issued 
rules and guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI complaints that included a 
complaint about undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is contained in DISP 
App 3) came into force  in August  2017 and was preceded by a policy  statement 
(PS17/03, issued  in March 2017) and two consultation papers (CP15/39  and 
CP16/20). The respondents to those consultations included consumer groups, 
businesses, claims management companies  and trade  associations, and the final 
rules and guidance took account of their views.
-In PS 17/03, the FCA said that in publishing  this guidance for firms, it had used [its] 
regulatory judgement to create  a framework  that [it] believe[s]  will reduce uncertainty  
and enable firms to take a fair and consistent  approach to handling  PPI complaints. 
This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers  at the earliest  stage in the 
complaints process [Page 6 para 1.8]
-In broad terms, the FCAs guidance and rules  for businesses  handling PPI 
complaints require businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-step 
approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly speaking, at step 1, the firm should first 
consider whether the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply with FCAs 
rules or legal requirements.  Where failings are identified,  the business  should 
determine the way the consumer would have acted if the breach  or failing had not 
Ref: DRN674489310occurred (i.e. whether  or not the consumer  would have  bought the policy) and then 
determine appropriate redress - if any. It is at this step, for instance, where the 
presumption in DISP  App 3.6.2E  which I have  already addressed  above   may 
apply.
-Where the business concludes   as NatWest did in this complaint  that the 
consumer would  have  bought PPI, it must  then go on to assess, at step 2, whether 
any failure to disclose commission and profit share gave rise to an unfair relationship  
under section 140A, in which case the business  should go on to determine the 
appropriate remedy - if any.
-As a starting point,  the FCAs rules  and guidance require businesses to presume  that 
the failure to disclose  commission  gave rise to an unfair relationship where  the 
business expected commission and profit share to be more  than 50% of the cost of 
the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its consultations  and 
policy statement). Usually, in those  circumstances, the FCAs rules and guidance 
require businesses to refund the amounts paid by the consumer  in commission  and 
profit share above 50% of the policys cost,  plus interest. While  this presumption of 
an unfair relationship  is rebuttable, I note that NatWest has not sought to rebut it in 
Mr Ls case. In fact, NatWest made an offer of payment to Mr L in 2018, calculated in 
line with the FCAs  guidance, of £180.09.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Given that NatWest didnt tell Mr L about the high levels  of commission  and profit share  paid 
in this case, I think its likely a court would determine that the relationship  between  NatWest 
and Mr L was unfair under section 140A. As Ive mentioned above, the FCAs rules require 
NatWest to determine appropriate redress in those circumstances,  and I have had regard to 
those rules below in deciding what compensation it would be fair to award Mr L in order to 
remedy that unfairness. 
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree of certainty  whether a court  
would conclude that NatWests failure to disclose information about the claims ratio also 
meant there  was an unfair relationship. But in some respects, commission  and the claims 
ratio are two sides of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of the premiums 
is required to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  share payments.  
And I accept   although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court might take a similar 
view about the claims  ratio when considering a claim  under section 140A. But since  Ive 
already found  that its likely a court would say that NatWest  should have told Mr L about 
commission, and the claims ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think  the failure to 
disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall conclusion about whats fair 
in this case.
So, taking into account:
-the likelihood (in my view) that a court  would  determine the relationship  between  
NatWest and Mr L was unfair  under section 140A  because it didnt tell him about the 
high levels of commission and profit  share paid in this case; and
-the regulators complaint handling  guidance  for businesses, 
Ref: DRN674489311I dont think NatWest acted fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr L insofar as it failed  
to disclose the high commission and profit share paid out of the premiums  in this case. 
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.  
Ive thought carefully about whether fair compensation means Mr L should get a full refund of 
the premiums he paid to put him in the position he would  have  been  in if he hadnt taken the 
policy out, or a full refund of the commission and profit  share NatWest received, or a refund 
of the commission  paid above a certain point  for example  by taking the approach set out in 
the FCAs rules and guidance (as has already been offered by NatWest).
As Ive mentioned  above, Mr L says that he should  get a full refund of all the PPI premiums  
he has paid. In summary, Mr L says that the high level of commission  (and/or  the low claims 
ratio)  together with the policys limitations  and exclusions  meant that the PPI policy 
generally represented poor value for money  for him. I should therefore find that Mr L would 
not have purchased the policy had he known of the level of commission   and accordingly, 
he should receive a refund of all the PPI premiums he paid. 
I have thought carefully about these representations  and am mindful  of Lord Sumptions  
observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:
Any reasonable  person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two thirds  of 
the premium was going to intermediaries,  would  be bound to question whether the insurance 
represented value  for money, and whether it was a sensible  transaction to enter into. The 
fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion made the relationship unfair.  
However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case (Mrs Susan Plevin) would (or would not) have purchased  the PPI 
policy had the commission  been disclosed to her at the time of her purchase. The Supreme 
Court simply did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore consider that the 
Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Mr L suggests it does  i.e. that 
he necessarily would  not have purchased the policy  had the level of commission been 
disclosed to him at the time.
I have also borne in mind  that the overarching question for the court would be what  steps are 
required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under  section 140B, the court would have a 
wide range  of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending  relationship  in 
question. It does not, for instance,  follow that because NatWest  did not disclose the high 
level of commission to Mr L, the court would necessarily order NatWest  to return all the 
premiums Mr L paid for the policy. Nor does it follow  that the court  would necessarily find 
that Mr L would not have  purchased the policy but for NatWests failure to disclose the high 
commission. 
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr L 
in order to remedy the unfairness  arising  from the fact NatWest did not disclose the high 
level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
Ref: DRN674489312The FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
In considering what would represent  fair compensation for Mr L, I have, as I stated earlier, 
had regard to the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a complaint  
about undisclosed commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important consideration for 
me to take into account, and I will now explain  how I think  the FCAs guidance affects my 
decision on this issue.  
As I explained above, the FCA consulted extensively between 2015 and 2017 on the 
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about undisclosed 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise  of its regulatory judgment,  the 
FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. According to the FCA, the 
purpose of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair and consistent approach to 
handling PPI complaints  involving undisclosed commission. 
The FCA explained why it decided to exercise its regulatory judgment  in the way it did in 
paragraphs 4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.  These paragraphs state as follows:
The two step approach 
The approach to assessing merits  
4.68 Some responses  from industry, and from CMCs and consumer bodies, maintained their 
broad support for our proposed structuring  of the new rules  and guidance  concerning Plevin 
as a separate second step within our existing PPI complaint handling  rules and guidance, 
seeing it as a sensible and proportionate approach. 
4.69 However, some  industry respondents maintained and amplified their concerns about  
our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39)  that, in some marginal cases, a firm may conclude  
at Step 2 that not disclosing  commission over 50% was the straw that broke the back  of the 
sale as a whole, and that, overall, the customer would not have bought the PPI if given 
better information, including about the commission, at point of sale. These  responses argue 
that our view: 
inappropriately blurs the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective
will result in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step 
2 uphold  upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and complexity of 
handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers
imposes disproportionate  costs on firms  and the Financial Ombudsman Service  who 
will need  to operationalise such hybrid  assessments as standard  in their processes 
despite the small number, we say, whose outcomes will change  in practice 
4.70 Conversely, some  responses from consumer  bodies  and CMCs maintained  and 
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at 
Step 1 and Step 2, when these should be considered together. Specifically, they said that: 
We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant 
considerations from the Plevin judgment, and ignored the findings  of the Competition  
Ref: DRN674489313Commission that the non-disclosure of commission  was a central  plank of the sales 
strategy employed by most lenders.
The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission.  Instead, 
it is a wide one in the round,  so any sales failings  at Step 1, or other issues of 
unfairness or inequalities of knowledge  such as poor value from a low claims ratio,  
should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A. 
Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair  which  presumably 
also makes  it a breach of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the customer did need to 
be told about poor value, and it explicitly cites unfairness arising from undisclosed 
poor value. So it is wrong  for our proposed structure to imply (and Financial 
Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) that the non-disclosure of high commission  
and poor value was not relevant for causation and potential mis-selling or 
assessment at Step 1. Our proposed approach  paid lip service  to this, allowing that 
undisclosed commission may be the straw that broke the back of the sale as a 
whole, but said these  are marginal cases that will be few and far between   
whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been fairly carried out, but we cannot 
reasonably assume  that, given  the continued  poor complaint handling by firms. And 
the approach itself incentivises lenders not to concede a mis-sale,  and to instead 
redress more cheaply at Step 2. 
Our response
We have carefully  considered this feedback. However,  we see no reason to change our 
previous views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific question of whether an unfair relationship between lender and 
borrower was created by undisclosed high commission on the PPI. This question  is different 
from, and narrower than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for 
firms, which  is: did the conduct of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale,  of 
what we would expect  under our Principles and ICOB(S) rules,  that it made the sale 
substantially flawed?  
We still believe the two-step approach reflects this difference appropriately and fairly for 
complainants and firms.  An alternative approach which  merged considerations about  
undisclosed commission  into the existing rules  and guidance about  mis-selling to create a 
single test would not be appropriate because:  
We do not consider the non-disclosure of commission in PPI sales to have been a 
breach of our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely  in and of itself to have been  in breach 
of our Principles,  whereas we do consider the various  sales failings set out in the 
existing rules and guidance to be so.
It would  lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations  of whether a consumer would 
still have bought  the PPI if they had been  told about the level of commission. This 
difficulty is compounded by the fact that complaints about PPI increasingly involve 
older, pre-2005  sales,  of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Ref: DRN674489314Additionally, if we were to force  firms  to make these assessments  it would result in 
complaint outcomes  which would  be both arbitrary  and inappropriately all or nothing. 
It could give too little  nothing  to many  consumers  who had suffered an unfair 
relationship, and too much  full return of premium and interest  to many consumers 
who had benefitted from the PPI cover. (See paragraphs 4.87-4.105 below for further 
discussion of our approach to redress.) 
We would, anyway, have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed  
commission may be relevant to be assessed  by a lender  that did not sell the PPI and 
could not assess  if it was mis-sold under  our existing rules..
This extract makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered  representations  from 
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the 
representations which Mr L is now making  i.e. that the existence of an undisclosed high 
level of commission means that I should find that Mr L would not have purchased  the policy 
had he known about the level of commission at the time he bought  the policy.
However, I note that, in the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA decided that it 
would not be appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the 
existing rules and guidance about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step approach  
for firms handling PPI complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step  approach, 
the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to 
remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed  commission  should generally be 
considered at step 2. 
Turning now to consider  what  the FCAs guidance says about  how firms should calculate fair 
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am 
mindful that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive  consultation  
and deliberation. The following extract from para 4.104 of PS17/3  (omitting the footnotes)  
explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the 
courts might take a variety  of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However, 
we remain of the view that our approach,  centred  on the return of that portion of 
undisclosed commission plus profit share that exceeded  the tipping point, is fair and 
appropriate. As we have  explained  (see our response under paragraph  3.27 above), 
we are exercising  our regulatory  judgement  about appropriate assessment and, 
where appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A-B, taking 
account of Plevin. In doing so, we are seeking  to ensure fair and consistent complaint 
handling. We consider our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting 
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the 
notion of a tipping point.  
For these reasons, although  it was the remedy in Plevin ordered by the Manchester  
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress should be the 
return of all the commission that was not disclosed. Also,  the consumer,  who,  as 
would generally  have been established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for 
the protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed the benefit  of that protection  before 
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for the lender to keep some of the 
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point).
 
Ref: DRN674489315Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should  be the return  of all the 
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting  this approach would dissolve any 
meaningful distinction between  a mis-sale and an unfair relationship  under  s.140A, 
and thus between our existing Step 1 and proposed  Step 2. In our view, it would 
(even more than the return  of all commission) give excessive redress to the 
consumer who had enjoyed the benefit of that protection  before complaining. We 
consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the 
underwriting of the policy  and for some of the commission  from the policys  
distribution (i.e. the portion  under  the tipping  point).
 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes 
hypothetical scenarios  or, in general  or for historic interest specifically,  implies  any 
assumption that the customer would have  searched for or bought  an alternative  PPI 
policy that was cheaper by the amount of the excess  commission over the tipping 
point. So we do not need to take into account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI 
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.  
Rather, as stated above, our approach simply seeks to redress  the customer  for that 
element of undisclosed  excess commission  and profit share which created the unfair 
relationship under s.140A. It is in that specific sense, of our approach  not second 
guessing what  the consumer would have done had they been told of the commission,  
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We 
did not mean that our overall approach to redress had no element of restoring the 
consumers financial position to what  it would  have been without the undisclosed 
excess commission.
 
Lastly, we note that our approach  to redress has to be viewed in the round, as a 
package. Responses from CMCs  and consumer bodies have focused on aspects 
which they believe depart  from Plevin and are ungenerous to complainants,  such  as 
the presumptive  50% tipping point and redress based on the excess over it. 
Responses from industry have focused on aspects which they believe depart from . 
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress,  in 
aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate in light of the detriment 
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore,  the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in a 
case like Mr Ls (involving a regular premium  policy) is that a firm should pay a sum 
equivalent to the commission and profit share that is in excess of 50% of the policys cost, 
together with interest. According to the FCA, compensation calculated in this way would 
fairly remove the element of unfairness caused  by the existence  of the undisclosed high 
commission. 
my conclusion
Taking all these considerations  into account,  and having carefully  considered Mr Ls 
representations, my conclusion is as follows:
-Where a court determines that the relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair under section  140A,  the court is empowered  to make a variety of different 
types of orders under  section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
-Mr L has urged me to conclude that because  NatWests failure to disclose the high 
level of commission (and/or profit share) made his relationship with NatWest  unfair, I 
Ref: DRN674489316must find that he wouldnt have purchased the policy had he known about these 
matters at the time he purchased the policy.
-However, I do not accept Mr Ls suggestion.  As I said above,  I recognise it is possible 
that had the level of commission been disclosed to Mr L at the time of the sale, he 
might have  decided  not to purchase the policy. At the same time,  however, I am 
mindful of:
i.the FCAs  observation  in PS17/03 (which I have quoted above) that the 
existence of undisclosed commission question raises difficult considerations 
of whether a consumer would still have bought the PPI if they had been told 
about the level of commission;  and
 
ii.the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly remedy  the unfairness 
caused to Mr L by the failure to disclose  the high level of commission   I am 
not, as Mr L suggests,  driven  to conclude that he wouldnt have purchased 
the policy but for NatWests failure to disclose the level of commission.
-I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  requires a firm to refund some of the money paid for 
the PPI policy  in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by the failure  to disclose the 
level of commission. I also think that refunding  some of the money paid for the PPI 
policy in this way is an order which the court could,  in the exercise of its discretion, 
make under  section  140B in order  to remedy any unfairness.
 
-Overall, and on balance, I therefore  think it was fair for NatWest to calculate  
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share,  and thus return  some of the money Mr L 
paid for his PPI policy. This is because, in my view,  this:
i.fairly removed the source  of the unfairness; while:
 
ii.leaving Mr L with the policy Ive concluded  above  he would have taken out if 
NatWest had met its obligations  when acting as an insurance seller  but with 
lower commission and profit share levels.
   
-In other  words, by compensating  Mr L in line with the FCAs guidance at step 2, this 
effectively reduced  the overall  cost of the policy by an amount  equal  to the excess 
undisclosed high commission (and/or profit share) which is the very source  of the 
unfairness for the purposes of section 140A.
  
-I think that compensating Mr L in this way was a fair and reasonable outcome 
because it left him with the policy I believe he would have still taken out (for the 
reasons I explained above) while fairly compensating  him for the unfairness caused 
by the existence of undisclosed high commission. 
Taking all of this into account,  I therefore  consider that NatWests  offer of payment of an 
amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  
costs, in line with the FCAs  guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN674489317my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Ls complaint or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that National 
Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr L an amount equivalent to the commission  and profit  
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost, if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2021.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6744893