K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a mortgage. Mr and 
Mrs C say Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  given me any new information  for me to consider. Because of this I see 
no reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in
2003. Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them  the PPI. The policy covered  Mr C 
only. Mr and Mrs C amended their policy  in 2006 and 2008 alongside  further advances. The evidence 
on file suggests the policy was amended  on these occasions to cover the increased borrowing.
Our adjudicator recommended  partially  upholding the complaint.  Nationwide disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61591822Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
I currently dont think the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI was optional  and gain Mr and Mrs Cs consent before 
adding it to their account. Mr and Mrs C say they were coerced into taking the PPI and that 
Nationwide used sales tactics including  an incentive of having the first 12 months of the policy free of 
charge. Mr and Mrs C say that at the end of the free period Nationwide wrote to them  highlighting the 
importance of having the cover and effectively pushed them into keeping the policy. Ive thought  about 
all of this carefully.
I cant  know  for certain what happened here so Ive looked  at the paperwork available from  the sale 
to help me decide whats likely  to have happened. Ive seen the mortgage application signed  by Mr 
and Mrs C in 2003. On it there is a section related to PPI labelled free mortgage payment protection 
insurance for 12 months. I can see that the level of cover required (accident, sickness and 
unemployment) has been selected, and Mr and Mrs C have signed it. The application  has the wording 
if you are not applying for the MPPI cover please indicate why not and there is nothing on the 
paperwork to suggest  the lending was conditional upon taking  the policy. So on balance I think its 
more likely  that Nationwide made  Mr and Mrs C aware that they had a choice about buying  the MPPI 
and that they chose  to take it.
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy they werent told they could obtain a similar policy elsewhere by 
shopping around for the best deal. Nationwide  had no obligation  to discuss  other financial business 
products with Mr and Mrs C. It did however  have  an obligation to ensure  that Mr and Mrs C knew they 
had a choice about taking the PPI  and for the reasons  Ive explained above I think Mr and Mrs C 
agreed to take the PPI knowing they had a choice.
Ive seen a copy of the letter  sent to them in October 2004  which says that the policy  has been 
running for almost  a year, and describes  the premium  from December  2004.  The letter detailed why 
having the PPI is valuable and maintaining  your cover so important. But this is not enough  to for me 
to say its likely Nationwide coerced them into taking the PPI. I note that this letter  also details  
cancellation rights. Overall I havent seen enough based on what  Mr and Mrs C have told me to think  
its likely  Nationwide placed undue pressure on them to take the PPI when they chose to take out the 
PPI, or when the free period  of cover was coming  to an end.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs C got the information they needed to decide if it was 
right for them.  Its possible  the information  Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover.
Mr C says he was diagnosed with a medical  condition in 1999  and has been  taking medication  
since then. The terms of the policy  only restricted claims  in relation to existing medical conditions  for 
the first 12 months after the cover commenced. After that, Mr C wouldve  been able to claim on the 
policy even for illness related to his condition. Its unclear whether this was explained clearly to Mr 
and Mrs C. However even if it had been clearly explained, I dont think they would  have felt that being  
unable to claim  for Mr Cs condition for one year was a reason  not to protect  their mortgage  
repayments against any possible future difficulties. So I think Mr and Mrs C would  still have taken out 
the PPI.
Mr C says he wouldve received sick pay and redundancy pay from his employer. But the
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any employee benefits he wouldve received. So I think
Mr and Mrs C wouldve found the policy useful if Mr C lost his job (incidentally I can see they went on 
to make a successful claim on the policy in 2007) It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN61591823Which means I currently  dont think Nationwide have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs C.
But Nationwide has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because it got a 
high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premiums) - which  it should  have 
told them about that. Because Nationwide  didnt  tell Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premiums. And I think that offer is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently think the policy was mis-sold.
Both parties now have until the date set out above to provide me with new information and/or 
arguments before I consider  the complaint again for a final decision.
Ref: DRN6159182