K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt tell them  that loan repayments were 
missed and then wrongly asked them  to pay the debt under a guarantee.
background 
Mr and Mrs B gave  HSBC a mortgage on their property as security  for a business loan taken 
out by a family member. Mr B says HSBC agreed to tell him if any loan repayments were  
missed. 
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs B received a letter from HSBC asking them  for immediate 
payment of the loan balance. HSBC said loan repayments had been  missed. In July 2018 
HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs B saying the debt hadnt been paid and it was entitled to enforce 
its security. Mr B says hes checked  bank statements  and the payments have been made. 
But hes been  unable  to contact HSBC to sort the matter out.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said loan payments 
were sometimes late or missed and the loan was in arrears. The loan and guarantee 
documents said HSBC  didnt have to keep Mr and Mrs B informed about the loan.  But staff 
at HSBC had given Mr and Mrs B misleading advice suggesting that it would keep them 
informed. Mr B had experience some inconvenience making calls and writing letters  and the 
adjudicator said HSBC should pay compensation of £75 for this.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree. Mr B said hed recently found out HSBC  had made changes  to 
the loan agreement meaning  hes no longer a guarantor,  but HSBC  hadnt told him this. He 
said his concern about HSBC not keeping him informed  as it agreed to do  hadnt been  
taken seriously. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr and Mrs B signed a mortgage in May 2007. This gave security on their property for debts 
owed to HSBC  by a member of their family. This included all debts due to HSBC  from the 
family member, including overdrafts, loans,  charges  and interest,  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs B were  told about them. 
A loan taken out by the family member fell into arrears.  HSBC provided evidence  of the 
arrears. In 2018 HSBC  asked Mr and Mrs B to pay the loan. It said it was entitled to enforce 
its security.
The loan had fallen  into arrears previously and HSBC had been in contact with Mr and Mrs B 
at that time. Mr B says HSBCs manager agreed in 2014 that hed be kept informed  about  
the loan. Ive seen copies  of two emails from HSBC,  which say:
Ref: DRN63104002I will ensure that once the account is in a position  where I can pass it back to a local 
business manager, he or she is made  aware of the need to contact you if any loan 
payments are missed  and apologise  that this did not happen in this instance;  and
[Mr B] thank  you very much for your help in resolving the concerns that were held. I 
have advised  the team that we hold authority to discuss  the loan with you so there 
should not be a problem  should you wish to speak with them. If any query is raised, 
please ask them to read the notes on [the borrowers] account.
did HSBC make an error?
HSBC says Mr B isnt entitled to information about the loan account prior to the debt being 
called in as he isnt a party to the loan. So the information HSBC gave to Mr B in 2014 
suggesting hed be told about any missed payments was incorrect.
what should happen now?
I dont think the rights  and obligations of the parties under the mortgage were changed by 
HSBC giving Mr B incorrect information. It didnt  change HSBCs right to ask for payment 
and enforce its security  under the terms of the mortgage. 
HSBC told Mr B in 2014 that it would tell him about any missed  payments. I think this was 
wrong. HSBC confirmed that it wouldnt  give this information to Mr and Mrs B. And the loan 
is between HSBC and the borrower. HSBC would need the borrowers consent to give 
information about the loan to Mr B. Even if this consent was in place at the time,  HSBC 
couldnt know if it would be withdrawn.  
I do think Mr B was misled in 2014 when HSBC said it would tell him if there were any 
missed payments. So I need to consider how things would have been different if Mr B had 
been given the right information.
I appreciate that receiving  a letter asking for payment under the guarantee was upsetting for 
Mr and Mrs B. But this wouldnt  have  been  different if Mr and Mrs B had been given the right 
information in 2014. Theyd  still have had to wait for HSBC to contact them  when it was 
considering enforcing  the security. HSBC agreed  to pay £75 for the inconvenience  caused 
by it giving Mr B incorrect information. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require  HSBC to do more.
Mr B says HSBC has recently removed  him as a guarantor but hasnt told him. I appreciate 
Mr Bs frustration.  But as this wasnt part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint when they brought it to 
us, our rules  dont allow me to look into it here. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £75 to 
Mr and Mrs B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6310400