K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Mrs V say Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
alongside a mortgage.
background
Mr L and Mrs V took out the policy to cover  their monthly mortgage repayments  in 2009. They paid 
a monthly premium for the policy, which covered Mr L if he couldnt work due to disablement  or 
unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr L and Mrs V disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr L and Mrs Vs case.  
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr L and Mrs V say they werent aware theyd taken out PPI. I dont know  for certain  what  was said 
during the sale but Lloyds has provided  documentation from the time which shows me that it made 
it clear to Mr L and Mrs V that it was selling PPI which was optional and separate  to the mortgage.  
I believe Mr L and Mrs V chose to go ahead with it knowing that was the case. For example, I can 
see they signed a separate PPI application  form which included details of the amount  to be 
protected and how the benefits were  to be split between them.  They also signed  a separate  direct 
debit instruction for the policy premiums. I can understand why they might  not remember this now.  
I think Lloyds recommended the policy  to Mr L and Mrs V. So, as well as having to give them  
enough information for them to make an informed choice about taking it, Lloyds should have 
looked into whether  it was right for Mr L and Mrs V. Regardless of what  steps  Lloyds took I think  its 
recommendation was suitable for them.
I say that because, from what Mr L and Mrs V have told us about their circumstances at the time, it 
appears Mr L was eligible  for the policy and Ive seen nothing  to show that it was unaffordable for 
them. And I cant, for instance, see that Mr L would have been  affected by the main exclusions to, 
or limits on, the cover. 
Mr L and Mrs V say Mr L wasnt entitled to enhanced sick pay or redundancy pay through his 
employer and had no other means  of keeping up with the repayments if he was off work.  On the 
other hand, the policy would have protected their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months per 
claim. Because Mr L and Mrs Vs borrowing was secured against their home, I think its likely they 
would have valued the protection  the PPI provided  them with.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out everything  it should have about the PPI but I dont find that Mr L 
and Mrs V lost out because of that. I say that because, for the same reasons I think  the PPI was 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  would have stopped Mr L and Mrs V from buying  
it. I think theyd have  seen  it as providing useful cover at an affordable  cost.
Ref: DRN63084382my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs V to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6308438