K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that AmTrust Europe Limited  is responsible for poor service  under a 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
So that third parties cant be identified, Ill avoid the use of their names and brand names.  
Mr A took out a policy branded with the name of an energy supplier. AmTrust was the 
insurer responsible  for dealing with claims.  Where I refer to AmTrust or the insurer, I 
include engineers  and others for whose actions I hold AmTrust responsible.
Mr A has a condensing boiler in his basement or cellar. The condensate from the boiler 
was discharged via a condensate pump and condensate pipe. Nearby  Mr A has a toilet 
and a macerator and an integral pump.
The policy covered his central heating system.  But it didnt cover problems caused 
by blocked or frozen condensate pipes.
Mr A called for help with his central heating  and the insurer sent engineers on 4 and 15
November, 3, 5 and 8 December. On 8 December the engineer  said there  was a 
blocked condensate pipe.  He recommended  Mr A should call a plumber. Mr A called in 
an emergency plumber  on 10 December and rang the insurer.
Later he complained  that - although the insurer had said he should send it the 
emergency plumbers  invoice (which he had) - the insurer wouldnt reimburse  him.
Mr A said the plumber  had found  no blockage but had diagnosed a fault with the 
condensate pump. The emergency  plumbers invoice was for reconfiguring the plumbing so 
that the condensate discharged into the macerator.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
the costs incurred due to plumbing  reconfiguration  arent covered by the policy. He thought 
the insurer dealt  with the complaint fairly and reasonably and in a timely manner.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to AmTrust on 18 July 2019. I summarise  my findings:
I didnt think the insurer had enough  technical evidence to show  that there was a 
system design fault or a system deficiency pre-existing at the date of the policy.  
Mr As emergency plumber suspected that the pumps non-return  valve was
letting-by, that is to say leaking. I found  that consistent with the engineers report 
from the visit on 3 December. So that engineer and the emergency plumber thought 
the pump was moving out liquid  which was leaking back into the pump. I preferred 
their opinions to the opinion of the engineer who on 8 December thought the 
condensate pipework was blocked.
Ref: DRN69796272There was no blockage  of the condensate  pipe. So the insurer  shouldve repaired 
or replaced  the pump.  Instead it wrongly told Mr A there was a blockage that he 
had to pay a plumber to remove.
Subject to any further information from Mr A or from AmTrust, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint.  I intended to direct AmTrust Europe Limited to 
pay Mr A:
1.  £952.48;  
and
2.  simple  interest on £952.48 at a yearly rate of 8% from 10 December 2018 to the 
date AmTrust  reimburses that amount. If AmTrust considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr A how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr A made no additional points in response  to the provisional decision.
AmTrust disagrees with the provisional  decision. It says, in summary, that:
Its engineer attended on 8 December and noted  there was a blockage or 
restriction within the discharge pipework from the condensate  pump.  This 
confirms and makes sense as to why the condensate  pump would have been 
running or turning itself on every  15-30  seconds. Condensate pumps kick in via 
the operation  of a float valve; this activates the pump discharge when condensate 
liquid levels reach a certain fill point. Usually this happens intermittently and 
on/off durations will vary. However, during normal operation the expected  time 
the condensate pump  would activate would be much greater than 15- 30 
seconds. Anything less would indicate  there is some sort of discharge issue. 
AmTrust would like evidence proving there was no blockage  or restriction on the 
pre-existing condensate or waste pipe work. 
The condensate  pump would have  been  covered.  The  condensate pump was 
working on its engineers visits. However  it was working harder due to the 
blockage or restriction. 
AmTrust is concerned about the legitimacy  of the third party  plumbers work. The 
third partys fault description  contradicts AmTrusts engineers fault description 
from the visit on the 8 December. 
The labour  costs from the third party invoice are significantly greater than what 
was stated for the time worked. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For me the key documents  are as follows:
Ref: DRN69796273 The energy  companys  policy  terms booklet
 The insurers engineers report 4 November
 The insurers engineers report 4 December
 The insurers engineers report 8 December
 The emergency plumbers invoice 10 December
Mr A took out the policy on about  29 October. It referred to an Initial Inspection to 
check that his system was suitable for the insurer to cover.
The policy didnt cover any of the following:
 Problems caused by blocked or frozen condensate pipes.
 Upgrade work to make the system  meet current requirements.
 Faults or system deficiencies pre-existing at the date of the policy.
 Repairs undertaken by a third party not instructed by the insurer.
I think that the policy covered the condensate pump as part of the central heating 
system. The definition  of Central Heating System included  the following:
any  essential components required for the operation of the System, installed by 
us or passed  at Initial Inspection e.g. magnetic/System filter, condensate pump or 
trace heating kit
So the policy  gave  examples  including a magnetic filter and a condensate  pump   of 
components essential  for the operation of the central heating  system. In view of those 
examples I dont  think  its open to the insurer to say that a magnetic filter or a 
condensate pump could  be taken  out of the central  heating system and therefore isnt 
essential for its operation.
I have no reason  to doubt that the condensate pump was present on 4 November.  That 
was the day the insurer  did the Initial Inspection.  The engineers  report  had a section in 
which he couldve noted any Component  Excluded . But that box is empty. And the insurer 
hasnt said that the condensate pump  didnt  pass that inspection. So I find that the 
condensate pump passed  the Initial Inspection and the policy  covered it.
The engineer noted the need for more support for the boiler flue. That was upgrade work 
not covered by the policy. And I dont  agree with Mr A that the engineer  shouldve  told him 
that a particular component was available for this.
Following his visit on 3 December the insurers engineer made the following note: 
condense  pump seemed  [to] be full not running  think valve  may have been  stuck  
down managed to free and filled a few times to test and was clearing water
From that, I find that the pump  had a valve which had stuck so as to allow water to sit in 
the pump. The note also records a laptop  issue. So I accept that Mr A didnt see or sign 
that note. I think the engineer dated and uploaded the note the following day. So the note 
was  or shouldve been  available to the insurer from 4 December.
The same engineer made a further  visit on 5 December and made a note the following day. I 
dont think that has any bearing on Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN69796274Mr A rang on 7 December. The insurer  hasnt  provided a call recording.  But its note 
says that Mr A rang regarding a pump and wanted  to make  sure the engineer  had all 
the information. So I accept Mr As recollection that he told the insurer  the condensate 
pump kept turning itself on.
The insurer  sent a different engineer  on 8 December.  His note says the following: 
customer  advised condensate  pump constantly  running. found blockage  in 
waste system,  boiler  pump  in cellar with sump  pump, advised  customer  to phone  
plumber as not covered under contract. Once plumber has removed issue  all will 
be fine with condense  pump.
Mr A signed the engineers report on 8 December. But I think that was to acknowledge 
what the engineer  had said.  It wouldve been pedantic to ask the engineer  whether hed 
actually found or seen  any obstruction blocking the waste  system. 
Mr A didnt  know of the previous report of a stuck valve  on the pump.  So he had no reason 
to ask whether the engineer was deducing (from water in the pump, for example) that there  
must be a blockage.
I dont think Mr As signature shows that he agreed  there was a blockage  or that he 
shared the engineers prediction  that removing a blockage would solve the problem with 
the pump.
I think the engineer had told Mr A the policy didnt cover a blocked condensate pipe. And that 
was correct. But I think that if the engineer  had actually  seen an obstruction he wouldve 
given more detail.  So I think he was deducing  that there must be a blockage.
And  in dong so  I dont  think he took into account his colleagues  note that the pump 
valve had been  sticking a few days earlier. In view of that, I think he shouldve  tested,  
repaired or replaced the pump. I dont  find it reasonable that  in disregard of the earlier  
note  he diagnosed a blockage in the pipe.
Mr A engaged an emergency plumber.  And I accept Mr As statement that the plumber 
didnt find a blockage. So Mr A rang the insurer. The call-handler  consulted  a manager. I 
cant say it was unreasonable that the manger  didnt speak directly  to Mr A.
The insurer  says that Mr A said the emergency  plumber hadnt  found a blockage,  so 
thought the problem was with the pump  which he had replaced. But the insurer  hasnt 
provided a call recording. And Mr A says he rang while the plumber was still there. He is 
clear that the plumber  never replaced the pump. So I dont think Mr A said he had replaced 
it.
Its common ground that the call-handler asked Mr A to send the plumbers invoice. Mr A 
says that this implied that the insurer would cover  the invoice. And I think  the insurer was 
showing that  despite the exclusion  in the policy terms  there  are occasions when it will 
be fair for it to reimburse invoices from plumbers it has not instructed.
But I think the insurer was seeking  written confirmation of what  the plumber  had found  
and what work he had done  - as well as what he had charged.
The plumbers invoice dated on 10 December was for £952.48. It includes  the following: 
Ref: DRN69796275INVESTIGATE  WHY CONDENSATE  PUMP CYCLING. SUSPECT NON-
RETURN VALVE LETTING BY. RE-CONFIGURE PLUMBING SO 
CONDENSATE NOW PLUMBED TO [brand name for macerator]
From that, I understand that the plumber suspected that the pumps non-return valve  was 
letting-by, that is to say leaking.
I find that consistent with the engineers report from the visit on 3 December. So that 
engineer and the emergency plumber thought the pump  was moving out liquid which 
was leaking back into the pump. I prefer their opinions  to the opinion  of the engineer  
who on 8 December thought the condensate  pipework was blocked.
On 9 January Mr A made a complaint during a call. Under the rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority,  the insurer  then had up to eight  weeks to give a final decision. But its 
acknowledgement letter dated  11 January said it aimed to give an answer within four 
weeks.
Ive also seen a final response letter dated  14 January. As there  may have  been  a problem 
with the post,  I cant say that the insurer didnt post it at that time. But I dont think Mr A 
received it  as he didnt  answer it when he wrote  on 20 January and 27 February. I think  
the insurer shouldve  acknowledged those letters.
When he received the final response  letter in March, Mr A saw that the letter  was dated  14 
January and included the following:
Our terms  and conditions relay  that we do not cover the condensate pipework or 
associated fittings,  including the condensate  pump, which  was found to be the 
issue. The condensate pump was not affecting  the functionality of the boiler and 
your heating and hot water were working.
Conclusion
Unfortunately, due to the reasons outlined above, we have rejected your 
complaint and will not be covering the cost of your emergency plumber 
It wasnt correct to say the policy terms didnt cover the condensate pump. The insurer  
recognised that when  it sent us its file in May.  It then said Mr A had a system design 
fault. That was a change of reason.  And in any event the onus is on the insurer to show 
that Mr As claim was excluded by the policy terms.
The insurer  has said that Mr As plumbing  pipes werent configured for both a condensate 
pump and a sump pump. But thats  not what its engineers said.  The engineer who visited 
on 3 December worked on the condensate  pump without noting  a system design fault. The 
engineer who visited on 8 December blamed a blockage without noting a system design 
fault.
The emergency plumber  didnt say there was a system design  fault.  He reconfigured the 
condensate pipe so that it discharged  into the macerator. But I dont think that shows  there  
had been a system  design fault.  
Rather I think there had been a mechanical fault with the condensate pump. As an 
alternative to repairing or replacing that pump,  the plumber  removed  the pump and re-
routed the condensate pipe to the macerator   which  had its own pump.
Ref: DRN69796276So I dont  think  the insurer has enough technical evidence  to show that there  was a 
system design fault or a system deficiency pre-existing at the date of the policy.  And I 
dont think the insurer has enough technical evidence  to show that there  was a blockage  
of the condensate pipe. 
So the insurer shouldve  repaired  or replaced  the pump. Instead it wrongly told Mr A there 
was a blockage  that he had to pay a plumber to remove.
In consequence, Mr A engaged an emergency plumber. That plumber looked for a 
blockage and didnt  find one. He mightve  repaired or replaced the condensate pump. But 
he actually found  another  solution.
The insurer  has suggested  that the invoice contains  a discrepancy between  the times  
recorded and the hours  charged at the charging rate. But I think it records that the 
plumber worked about  four and a half hours.  And his charging rate is per half hour or part 
thereof. The resulting amount plus materials is £952.48. And that looks  high.
But Mr A wouldnt have called the emergency plumber at all if the insurer had repaired or 
replaced the pump on 8 December. And on 10 December the insurer  missed  an 
opportunity to contain the costs.
Therefore  notwithstanding the policy exclusion of third party  costs  I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct the insurer  to reimburse  Mr A the amount of the invoice.
Ive thought about directing the insurer to pay compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mr A by the shortcomings  Ive identified in its claims-handling  
and complaints-handling. 
But I think much of Mr As distress and inconvenience is to do with being out of pocket 
since 10 December. So I find it fair enough to direct the insurer to pay interest at our usual  
rate.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct 
AmTrust Europe Limited to pay Mr A:
1. £952.48; and
2.  simple  interest on £952.48 at a yearly rate of 8% from 10 December 2018 to the 
date AmTrust  reimburses that amount. If AmTrust considers  that its required by 
HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr A 
how much  its taken  off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69796277
Ref: DRN6979627