K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) has unfairly declined  a claim he made 
under his landlord emergency cover policy.
background
Mr R says his tenant told him of a water leak in his rented property in May 2018. He 
contacted Aviva and an engineer was sent to investigate a few days later. Mr R says the 
engineer explained this type of damage wasnt covered as it came from a sewage pipe leak. 
So instead  Aviva advised him to speak to the water board.
Mr R says Aviva and the water board disputed liability  for the damage for over a month. It 
was then established that the water leak originated inside the home.  And that this leak was 
seeping into the foundation of the home and the neighbours property.
Aviva then said the repair would take a full day and would cost Mr R around £560 to fix as it 
wasnt covered under  the policy. Mr R complained and after some back  and forth he was told 
the damage would  now be covered. Mr R said what shouldve been a straightforward fix 
ended up taking several months to put right. So he asked for £4,000 in compensation.
Aviva investigated and said instead Mr R first contacted it about the water leak in mid-August 
2018. It said an engineer attended the property and found the leak was on the external water  
supply pipe. And it said this wouldnt be covered by the policy Mr R had so it referred  him to 
the water  board. Following a discussion with the water board, Aviva reinvestigated and said 
it found the claim had been rejected in error.  It went ahead  with the works and completed 
these in early September 2018.  Aviva  apologised for the mistakes  made and it offered Mr R 
£600 in compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr R was unhappy so he brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator agreed the 
claim had taken much longer than necessary to resolve. But she said she could only 
consider the impact directly on Mr R. So while she was sympathetic to his tenants,  she 
wouldnt suggest increasing Avivas offer for the direct impact on them.  The investigator 
considered the number  of calls Mr R made, and the overall delay and said £600 was a fair 
offer. Mr R disagreed so the case has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Under ICOBS 8.1 Aviva  is required to handle claims promptly and fairly.  In this case its not 
in dispute that Aviva  has caused delays and that it reached the wrong outcome when 
assessing the claim initially. And Aviva has apologised for this.
 
So Ive had to consider  the impact of these delays, and what (if anything further), Aviva 
needs to do to put things  right.
Mr R has told us this experience has caused him a lot of stress and inconvenience. And I 
dont doubt that having  this claim initially declined was very frustrating for him. Mr R said the 
Ref: DRN60104692delay caused  problems in the property for several months. Aviva has indicated  that Mr R 
called to make a claim a lot later than he says, and so the delay it caused was closer  to two 
weeks. But regardless, its clear  Aviva didnt handle this claim as promptly as it couldve.
In this case I dont think  I need to make a finding on the extent of this delay. I say this 
because Im satisfied that the offer Aviva has made would  be fair compensation to Mr R, 
even if I were to only consider his account of the delays.
From what  Mr R has said it seems a large  part of his frustration stems from disappointment 
that he paid for a policy that didnt deliver  what it shouldve done.  And hes asked for £4,000 
in compensation  as he says the policy offers repairs up to this value. But were not the 
regulator, and arent  here to punish or fine a business for mistakes.  So I wont increase 
compensation purely because Aviva made a mistake or got something wrong.
 
Instead my role is to consider what would be fair compensation for Mr R  taking into 
account the impact  on him  in light of these mistakes. Its clear to me Mr R had to make a 
number of phone calls to resolve this issue. And this took longer than it needed  to which  
wouldve inconvenienced him. But its common that most insurance claims will be stressful 
and frustrating for those  involved  and Ive kept this in mind.
Based on what Ive seen,  overall Avivas offer of £600 is higher than I wouldve awarded 
even if I found  it had caused  the extent of the delays and any related financial loss Mr R has 
described. Mr R also asked  us to consider the impact of this mistake on others,  which as our 
investigator has explained, were unable to do.
For these reasons Im satisfied the offer Aviva has made  is fair. And Im not asking it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay £600. I conclude that such an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Aviva should pay Mr R £600.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6010469