K822xComplaint
Mr D is unhappy with Clydesdale Financial Services Limiteds response  to a claim he made  
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, in relation to a fixed term loan agreement 
he took out to finance the installation  of solar panels. 
Background 
Mr D is represented in this complaint. But for the sake of simplicity, I have  just referred  to all 
of the submissions made as being  from Mr D. 
In 2015, Mr D was contacted by C, a supplier of solar panels. C sold Mr D a solar panel  
system, and arranged for this to be installed on his property. 
The system and installation was financed by a loan C arranged  for Mr D to take out with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited,  trading as BPF. £9,250  was lent to Mr D by BPF, 
repayable over a term of 10 years at just under  £120  per month. The total amount repayable 
was around £14,350. 
In 2016, Mr D contacted  BPF to say that he has unhappy with the arrangement he had 
entered. Effectively,  he had two main issues. The first was that he was not receiving the 
level of benefit  C had led him to believe he would get from the solar panels,  including  that 
they were not self-funding. And the second  was that the solar panels installed were  not 
those that C had agreed to provide, and that they had not been positioned as they should  
have been. Mr D considered that, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(s.75), BPF was liable for Cs alleged misrepresentations and breaches of contract.  
BPF did not uphold Mr D claim. It did not consider that the fact a different brand of solar 
panel had been fitted meant that there  had been  a breach of contract. BPF said the terms of 
the contract  referred  to the possibility that alternative products may be offered and that there  
was no evidence the change here had a significant  impact on the working or performance of 
the system as a whole. BPF also did not consider that it had been shown that C had led 
Mr D to believe the panels would be self-funding, and that in any case  Mr D hadnt supplied 
sufficient evidence that these savings were  not being achieved.  
Mr D referred  his complaint about the outcome of his claim to this service.  Following  this, 
BPF agreed  to make him an offer. Effectively,  BPF offered  to reduce the loan to match  the 
estimated savings Mr D will likely achieve from the solar panels for the duration of the loan  
essentially making them self-funding over this period. BPF also offered Mr D £100 
compensation.
Our investigators felt this was a fair offer. They also didnt  think there was a significant 
difference between  the solar panels installed  to those listed in the contract, and that the 
installation of the different panels was in line with the contract terms. The investigators  also 
considered that the system  was producing a level of energy in line with what might  be 
expected. So they didnt  uphold this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D remains  unsatisfied.  He is unhappy that the solar panels listed  in the contract  would 
have apparently come with a 25 year warranty, but he does not have this benefit with his 
installed panels. He considers the installed panels to be inferior.  He also feels  that the offer 
from BPF is insufficient. He referred  to ongoing  costs the panels would incur, and that he 
would not receive  the level of benefit he had been promised after the end of the loan term. 
Ref: DRN69110312As such,  his complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of this service is to resolve disputes  fairly and reasonably with minimum formality.  
Generally speaking, where a financial business is found to have  not acted appropriately, we 
will try to put the complainant in the position  they would have been in had the business acted 
appropriately.
In this case, the complaint  that this service  is able to consider is whether BPF has 
appropriately dealt  with Mr Ds claim under  s.75.  Whilst the mechanisms of s.75 mean that 
BPF can be held liable for certain actions of C, it should be borne in mind  that it was not BPF 
that made any of the representations to Mr D at the time of the sale, and there is no 
allegation BPF itself has breached any contract.
Technically, only a court can determine  if there has been a breach of contract  or a 
misrepresentation. However,  where  a claim  under  s.75 is made  to a creditor, we would 
expect the creditor  to consider what outcome a court is likely to come to. And any complaint  
about how a creditor  has dealt with such a claim is one that we can consider. Our role is to 
determine whether  the creditor dealt with the claim fairly and reasonably.
In terms of the alleged breach of contract,  BPF has said that the terms of the contract allow  
for alternative products to be used.  I do though  consider  that the use of a different brand of 
solar panel  is something that should have  been brought  to Mr Ds attention at the time of 
installation. 
However, I am also minded to think that Mr D would likely not have  objected  to this change 
at the time. I have  seen nothing to suggest that the specifics of the panels used was 
something Mr D was made aware  of at the time or that would likely have determined  his 
decision to enter the contract.  I consider  it more  likely that Mr Ds decision was made based 
on the apparent  energy generation levels that would be achieved, regardless of which brand 
of panel achieved this. 
Mr D has since  said that the panels supplied were  substantially inferior  to those listed on the 
contract he entered with C. Mr D has provided  some  information, comparing the two brands 
of panel. But he has provided very little that relates  specifically to the relevant  models.  
When comparing the specifications  of the two models, they appear to be very similar. The 
panel installed actually  has a slightly higher level of efficiency (15.2% compared  with 14.9%). 
And both appear  to come with a 25 year linear performance warranty  and a 10 year 
product warranty. So Mr D does  not actually appear  to have lost out on this aspect. 
And, ultimately, as the investigators  have said, the level of energy generation is in line with 
what might  be expected from a solar  panel system of this kind.  As such,  based  on the 
information available,  I do not consider the panels installed to be substantive different to 
those contracted  for. 
Ref: DRN69110313So whilst a court might  consider the apparent failure of C to confirm the use of a different 
brand of panels to be a breach of a contractual  term, I am not persuaded Mr D has lost out 
as a result  of this. And, taking a holistic  approach, I do not consider BPFs decision this 
aspect of Mr Ds claim to have been  inappropriate.  
BPF has though now accepted that C may have made misrepresentations when Mr D 
entered the arrangements,  including  the fixed term loan. As such,  the remainder of my 
decision is largely focussed on determining what fair and reasonable compensation for this 
is. In cases like this one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact  science. There  are a 
range of options that might be considered fair and reasonable. 
BPF has largely accepted that C may have misrepresented the savings and benefits Mr D 
was likely to receive from the solar  panels. Mr D was apparently led to believe that the solar 
panel system would  be self-funding. This was on the basis that the savings he was told he 
would achieve  as a result of having the solar panels, would match the cost of the loan 
repayments. 
BPFs offer would mean that this would be achieved though. 
The offer BPF has now made is that it will:
rework Mr Ds loan so that he pays no more  toward this than he is estimated to save  
over the 10 year period of the loan as a result of having the solar  panels;
pay Mr D a sum of interest relating  to any payment Mr D made toward his loan that 
was more than he would have, had the arrangement been self-funding already. This 
interest will be 8% simple  interest  from the date of each overpayment  to the date of 
settlement; and
pay Mr D £100 compensation.
Taking all of the circumstances of this case into account, I think BPFs  offer is fair and 
reasonable. It means that Mr D will have  the solar panels at no net cost, and that he can 
then benefit from the savings  they generate after the loan period. 
It also provides appropriate  redress in the form of interest for the fact Mr D has been  without 
money he otherwise  would have had, and compensated him for the time BPF took to provide 
this offer.  Although, may BPF consider that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take 
off income tax from the interest payment. This would be fair, but it should  tell Mr D how much  
its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can 
claim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN69110314My final decision
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  has made  Mr D an offer.  I conclude  that the offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  My decision is that Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited should settle this complaint as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6911031