K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the declinature of a claim made under his travel insurance  policy  with 
Europaische Reiseversicherung AG (Europ). 
background
While abroad, Mr A had the need  for medical assistance. He made a claim for the costs 
incurred under his travel  insurance policy. Europ declined the claim as it considered  the 
treatment received to be related to pre-existing and undisclosed conditions. Mr A did not 
agree and brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and did not uphold the complaint. They 
agreed with the business  reasons for declining the claim. Mr A did not agree. The matter 
has therefore been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding  this complaint and will explain why. 
Mr A took out his travel insurance policy in October 2018, for his trip starting  in November 
2018.
Mr As medical records confirm Mr A was undergoing gastroenterology investigations prior to 
the purchase of his policy and had had a bile duct stone removed in April 2018. They also 
confirm Mr A was awaiting the removal of his gall bladder prior to the start of his trip. 
When Mr A took out his policy  he disclosed  a history of gastric  reflux and high blood 
pressure, but did not disclose the stone removal or the gastroenterology investigations. Nor 
did he contact Europ  to inform it of his planned future gallbladder removal. 
While abroad, Mr A received medical treatment for acute inflammation in the gall bladder 
with formation of pus in the liver bed and his gallbladder was removed. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr As policy state:
We would not cover you for any claim arising directly or indirectly  from a pre-existing
medical condition  unless:
-you have declared (when we ask) ALL pre-existing medical conditions  to us; and
-you have declared (when we ask) any changes to your health or prescribed medications;
And -we have accepted the medical condition(s) for insurance in writing.
Pre-existing Medical Condition
Any past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms, or for which  any
form of treatment, or prescribed medication,  medical  consultation, investigation, or
follow-up/check-up, has been required, or received, during the 2 years prior to the
commencement of cover  under this policy  and/or  prior to any trip
Medical condition
Ref: DRN65547082Any medical or psychological  disease,  sickness, conditions (whether diagnosed,  
undiagnosed or a set of symptoms), illness or injury, that has affected you.
The treatment Mr A received abroad  appears directly related to his pre-existing medical 
conditions, which were  not disclosed to Europ. In my opinion  it has therefore  correctly 
declined the claim  as this is excluded from cover  under the policy conditions. 
Mr A said he also received treatment for gastric reflux,  which has not been covered. I agree  
that claims relating  to gastric reflux would  be covered under the policy as Europ accepted 
cover for this condition.  However, I cannot see evidence of separate  treatment for this being  
carried out by the treating medical facility, or see separate distinguishable costs for this. 
I do note Mr As views  that the surgery he was due to have was elective, and he thought his 
gall bladder problems  were resolved. If these issues had occurred many  years before the trip 
I might  have  accepted  this argument.  But, they were very recent and I do think  Mr A should 
have disclosed them had he wished to be covered  for these issues. In those circumstances  I 
dont think I can reasonably ask Europ to meet the claim.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. I make no award  against Europaische Reiseversicherung AG.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6554708