K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G)  has poorly handled 
their claim for subsidence under their buildings insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G made a claim for subsidence under their buildings  insurance policy with L&G. 
The claim started in 2012 and Mr and Mrs G made a complaint to L&G about its handling of 
the claim at that time. L&G issued a final response  letter (FRL) for this complaint  in 
August 2016.  This included an offer of £800  compensation  to settle the complaint.  
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with this response and subsequently brought their complaint to 
this service in 2017.
On receipt of the FRL,  this service told Mr and Mrs G that the complaint hadnt been  brought 
to us in time. This is because Mr and Mrs G had six months from the date of that letter to 
come to us  but it took them around  a year instead.  Mr and Mrs G accepted  that under the 
rules we have to follow, we couldnt look into the complaint.
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs G came  back to this service with the following complaint points:
several areas of work were still outstanding under the claim, the main  issues  being:
ocarpet in landing was damaged by the contractors and needed replaced; 
othe shower screen was leaking and needed  replaced;
othe grout needed replaced in the bathroom floor tiling;
oareas needed painted in the kitchen:
oproblems with the bathroom  window;
oscrews to fix the toilet to the floor and the bath panel sealant needed to be 
redone;
otaps needed to be realigned;
othere was a large gap between the kitchen window and brick wall;
othere were cracks to the front of the property around the slabs  and the 
concrete had come out of the middle of the slabs.
a policy  excess had been charged even  though  the local council  had admitted that 
trees it was responsible for had caused the damage;
insurance premiums had increased  as a result of the ongoing claim and this 
additional cost was having a negative effect  on their finances;
Mr G paid to undertake professional exams in 2017, but the stress  of the ongoing 
claim prevented him from completing the exams;  and
the claim had put undue pressure on Mr and Mrs G which has had an adverse effect 
on them  and their family.
Theyd complained  to L&G about  these points and received a further  FRL which  was dated  
February 2018. In this letter,  L&G agreed that Mr and Mrs G had received a less than 
desired level of service  during its handling of their claim. It acknowledged that repairs were 
still ongoing due to snagging problems and concerns of further movement in the property, 
but it had established a way forward to address these issues.  
Ref: DRN64032342In relation to compensation, it mentioned a £250 payment that its loss adjuster had already 
paid to Mr and Mrs G. And it referred back to the complaint  made in 2016 and the offer of 
£800 compensation which had been declined at that time.  It offered to still honour this 
payment amount as well as offering an additional  £950 compensation for the trouble and 
upset Mr and Mrs G had continued  to experience since theyd last made a complaint.  
Mr and Mrs G didnt think this offer was acceptable  so they brought their complaint  to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into this case and explained that Mr and Mrs G hadnt complained  
about the policy premiums to L&G  so this service  couldnt look into that matter  until L&G 
had a chance to respond.  In relation  to what she could consider, she concluded  that a cash  
settlement for the outstanding work  was the fairest way to resolve  the outstanding repairs to 
Mr and Mrs Gs property. She said that the policy excess  was an uninsured  loss and so 
wasnt uncommon for the cost not to be recovered for the policyholder.  And she didnt 
recommend any increase  in compensation as she thought a fair amount had already been 
offered.
L&G agreed with our investigators  opinion. And the only point that Mr and Mrs G disagreed  
with was the amount of compensation theyd been offered for trouble and upset. So the case 
was passed to me to make a final decision.
I spoke with Mr G in April 2019,  to confirm the points still outstanding on this complaint, 
before I moved to make  a final decision.  Mr G said he was in discussions with L&G to 
arrange the cash settlement and was happy with how this was progressing. Hed also 
accepted all of the other  points in our investigators  view, apart  from the compensation for 
trouble and upset.  
I explained to Mr G that my final decision would therefore only address whether the trouble  
and upset L&G has offered, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. I 
reminded Mr G that I could  only look at the impact  L&Gs actions had on him and Mrs G, 
during the period after the FRL that was issued in August 2016. This meant I couldnt look at 
the impact of any of L&Gs actions  before  that date.
Mr G understood this and I gave  him more time to provide me with the reasons why he 
thought the compensation  for this period of time should be higher. This was further 
requested in a follow up email  sent to Mr Gs registered email address a few weeks  later. 
And he was given a final deadline of 15 May 2019  to get back  to us. But as of this point, I 
havent seen a response from Mr and Mrs G, so Ill now consider the complaint based on the 
information I already  have.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64032343The £2000 compensation L&G refer to in the 2018  FRL is made  up of the following:
£800 compensation from 2016;
£250 compensation which was paid by its loss adjuster to Mr and Mrs G in 2017 for 
delays in its handling of the repairs;
£950 compensation for the poor handling  of Mr and Mrs Gs claim during the period 
after the first FRL was issued  in 2016, up until the point L&G issued its second  FRL 
in 2018.
Mr and Mrs G have complained that the overall sum of £2,000 isnt enough to put things 
right. Theyve said that the poor service not only delayed their claim, but had a significant  
impact on their lives. So they think L&G should be offering more compensation.
Ive already explained that I cant look into the £800  compensation  as Mr and Mrs G didnt 
complain to our service about this within the timescales  we have to adhere to. And from what  
Ive seen, the loss adjusters have already paid the amount of £250  to Mr and Mrs G. So it 
seems that whats still in dispute is whether  the further compensation of £950 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
Its not in dispute  that L&Gs poor handling of Mr and Mrs Gs claim has caused them a 
degree of trouble and upset. But much of the impact  Mr and Mrs G have spoken about 
relates to the period of time between the claim starting in 2012 and the FRL being issued in 
August 2016.  As I cant consider this time period, I asked  Mr and Mrs G whether there  was 
any further impact as a result of L&Gs continued  poor service after this point. But I havent 
been presented  with a response to this request, so I have to base my findings on the 
information available.  
Almost two years to reach a conclusion to the claim that both parties  are in agreement with 
does seem like a very long time. And I dont doubt that it mustve been very stressful for 
Mr and Mrs G, living  in a property with their young  family, while it had ongoing snagging  
issues and potential movement still occurring. So I can appreciate  why Mr G found  it difficult  
to concentrate on his professional exams. And its not surprising it took its toll on them as a 
family.
I accept L&G couldve done  better  in its handling  of this claim.  Its clear  the relationship  had 
broken down between the appointed  contractors  and Mr and Mrs G. And from the notes,  I 
can see that L&G, at times, spent  more time than I think was reasonable, having to chase its 
loss adjuster for responses and updates  on information it needed to move  Mr and Mrs Gs 
claim forward. So this likely affected the progress of the claim at points.
But I also have to consider that because of the extensive damage subsidence can cause to 
a property, its not unusual for claims regarding this matter to take a long time. Subsidence 
claims can become more complex  and prolonged throughout  the course of the claim, 
because the damage can progress and change at varying points. And until it can be 
confirmed its likely  the property has stopped  moving, it may not always  make sense to start 
certain repairs, as these could be affected if more movement does in fact occur. 
Ref: DRN64032344From the information Ive seen, further movement  in Mr and Mrs Gs property was the main  
reason why final repairs couldnt be carried out on the property at an earlier  date. This is 
because further  readings in early  2017,  didnt  seem to show  stability  in the property. So 
alongside a subsidence specialist visiting the property, several further  readings  were taken 
over the months  that followed up until May 2018, when it was deemed  further movement 
was unlikely. Although this was a long period of time, I dont think  its unreasonable in this 
case, that L&G waited until it had the assurance  it needed about the movement of the 
property, before it started to finalise repairs.
So taking everything into consideration, I agree that had L&G handled things better, its likely 
the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs G experienced wouldve been lessened. But there was 
always going to be a degree  of trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs G just by the very 
nature of the claim itself and the damage  the subsidence was causing  to their property. And 
while this may have affected Mr Gs ability to focus  on his professional exams,  Ive not seen 
enough supporting evidence to be persuaded that L&Gs poor service was the dominant 
reason he couldnt  complete them.
L&G didnt provide the level of service it shouldve to Mr and Mrs G, and its sought  to 
resolve matters by apologising for this, and as set out above,  L&G has made  an offer to pay 
£950 compensation to Mr and Mrs G in relation to this complaint. Based on the information  
Ive seen in this case, I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances. So I wont be asking it to increase  this further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Legal  & General Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs G £950 
compensation if it hasnt  done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6403234