K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with their home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc 
(RSA) as the level of no claims discount  recorded in their 2018 renewal documents  doesnt  
reflect that the policy year 2017  2018 was a claim free year.
background
Mr and Mrs C arranged cover with RSA in 2013.  After their renewal in 2014 and before the 
policy renewed in October  2017 Mr and Mrs C made  four accidental  damage claims. The 
cover continued in 2017 to 2018  and Mr and Mrs C made no claims. In October 2018, in line 
with the policy documents  which say that for each claim free year the discount  will increase  
by one year,  they expected to see their renewal  to show one year no claim discount. The 
renewal said there  was zero years  discount.
RSA said it had calculated Mr and Mrs Cs premium  as it would any other customer. The 
issue, it said, was that the claims had been made too close  to the following period of 
insurance to be taken into account during that period. In its final response RSA said the 
discount will recover in line with policy wording and if Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the 
price its charged they are free to shop elsewhere.  Mr and Mrs C complained  to us.
Our investigator considered what Mr and Mrs C reasonably expected to happen according to 
the policy wording.  Having  done  so he felt RSA should reinstate one years  discount from 
renewal in 2018 and, having  recalculated  the premium, reimburse Mr and Mrs C if they had 
been charged more,  plus interest*.
RSA said it didnt think this was fair. It reviewed the discounts it had applied over the course 
of the policy  and felt Mr and Mrs C having  zero years discount as at renewal in 2018 was 
correct according to what the policy allowed  for and when it was able to apply those terms.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that RSA has sought to manage  the policy in line with the terms  but that the 
timing of when claims have occurred has meant its actions have been  somewhat delayed. 
However, the policy makes no allowance for that. 
What the policy does say is that for every  claim free year, the discount will increase by a 
year. Im not persuaded its reasonable to suggest  that, having  seen that, Mr and Mrs C 
should have realised this might  be impacted  by any retrospective action RSA decided to take 
to account for previous claims that had slipped through the net of the renewal for the policy 
year they should  have  been factored into. 
Considering what  is laid out in the policy, I think that Mr and Mrs C had a reasonable 
expectation that, at renewal in 2018,  having  had a claim free year 2017-2018, their policy 
would show one years  no claims discount.  And Im not persuaded that the very real 
practicalities that RSA had tried to work with here justified it acting in a way that isnt in line 
with what the policy  reasonably led Mr and Mrs C to expect. 
Ref: DRN68617282my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
Re-work Mr and Mrs Cs policy to show a no claims discount of one year applying  as at 
renewal in 2018. 
If Mr and Mrs C have paid more than they would have done against any premiums 
applicable to the re-worked  cover, reimburse the difference  to them, plus interest*  from 
the date each over-priced premium payment  was paid until settlement is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mr and Mrs C, it should tell them how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr and Mrs C a certificate  showing this if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6861728