K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  didnt include  commercial  legal expenses and 
rent guarantee cover as part of his landlord home  insurance policy.
background
Mr Hs tenants stopped paying rent. So, he made a claim on his landlord  policy  for the 
unpaid rent and for the legal fees to carry out eviction proceedings. UKI declined his claim 
because the optional extra cover for commercial legal expenses and rent guarantee hadnt 
been included  on the policy.
Mr H said he did select this cover when he took out the policy online. Mr H complained to 
UKI as he believed UKI made an administration error  when setting up the policy.  UKI deny 
this. UKI said its system  shows that Mr H worked through  the online process and produced  a 
quote with the extra  cover included. But it said he later amended  the quote and removed the 
extra cover. Because of this Mr H took out a policy  without this optional extra cover. UKI said 
the policy documents were issued confirming the cover that Mr H had bought. Mr H 
remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that UKIs system showed  the 
policy was purchased without the extra cover. The records  showed  commercial legal 
expenses and rent guarantee hadnt been  included. Our investigator accepted that Mr H had 
received his policy documentation  at the point of sale and had received further documents at 
renewal too. All the details sent clearly showed the extra cover hadnt  been included within 
this policy.
Mr H didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H obtained quote A online for a landlord  policy. The quote  was for £92.20 and didnt 
include the commercial  legal expenses and rent guarantee cover.  At this point Mr H didnt 
take out the policy.
A couple of weeks later Mr H went back online and entered into an online chat with UKI 
which Ive seen the transcript of. I can see that Mr H asks a question  about the rent 
guarantee option, which the advisor answers explaining what the cover does.
On this date Mr H also obtained quote B. This was for £92.31 and included the extra cover 
for commercial legal expenses and rent guarantee cover. Mr H said he then proceeded to 
take out the policy.
UKI said that before purchasing the policy, Mr H made further  amendments  to quote B by 
removing the commercial legal expenses and rent guarantee  cover.
Ref: DRN65985442Mr H denies doing  this. He believes theres  been an administration error thats caused quote 
B to be replaced by quote A. He says its evident from his online  chat that he wanted  the 
extra cover.
Ive seen a screenshot of UKIs system  which does  indicate that the quote was generated 
more than once  on the date Mr H went ahead and bought the policy. UKI said at this stage 
prior to purchase Mr H removed  the extra cover. Based on the details I think  that 
amendments were  made by Mr H before he went ahead and bought  the policy. UKI has 
provided copies  of both versions of the quotes  clearly showing that one quote  had the extra 
cover included and one didnt.
Mr H was emailed  his policy documents  straight after purchasing the policy.  The covering 
letter included asked  Mr H to check his policy  document and schedule to make  sure he had 
the full cover he required. And the documents show commercial legal expenses and rent 
guarantee cover as being not insured. The price of the policy was for the lower  amount 
without the extra cover costing £92.20.
As Mr H had set the policy up to auto-renew, he was sent renewal documents in 2018 with 
the same  levels  of cover as previously selected. So his policy  remained without commercial  
legal expenses and rent guarantee  cover for the following year.
UKI said Mr H never contacted it at the point of sale or renewal to say the level of cover on 
his policy  was incorrect. And Mr H acknowledges that he didnt check his policy as it was 
around Christmas time and he had other priorities.
From everything Ive seen, I dont  think UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably. It does 
appear that Mr H bought  the policy without the extra cover. I think  the lower  premium 
confirms that as Mr H had two prices  given to him. One price was for the standard  cover,  the 
price he paid, and one for the extra cover which was a slightly higher premium  and attached 
to the quote that Mr H didnt go ahead with. 
I understand Mr Hs point that this mustve been some sort of administration  error.  But I cant 
see that UKI made  that error. Mr H said it was his intension to take out the extra  cover  and 
Ive no reason to dispute that. But the records show that he didnt, and that the policy was 
subsequently renewed and continued with the lower level of cover.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6598544