K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited  handled a claim under  a specialist 
motor insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was minded to require Ageas to pay Mr M 
£19,500 for his car after it had been stolen. 
The crux of the dispute is what constitutes a fair value: Ageas made offers with £19,500 
being its highest whereas Mr M considered £26,000  a fairer reflection.
In response Ageas said it had nothing further to add. Mr M thought £22,500 was a fair 
settlement as middle ground. And he disagreed with me about the vehicle being driveable 
saying the vehicle had been  taxed and with a valid MOT at the time.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at everything again and taking Mr Ms response into account Im not 
persuaded to reach a different outcome. 
The evidence Mr M previously sent about  the vehicle having a MOT  and being taxed doesnt 
persuade me his vehicle was driveable  and mechanically sound. I accepted in my 
provisional decision the car had been  resprayed  and the bodywork restored. But I reflected 
on information that showed Mr M had told police the vehicle wasnt  driveable. 
The evidence Mr M relies  on for the MOT  is a snapshot from the government website on 
MOTs. But the website states  This vehicle hasn't had its first MOT so I remain  
unpersuaded that the vehicle was as Mr M states. 
For valid tax the evidence is in my determination equivocal and not persuasive. Mr M wants  
me to accept  the fact the government website says tax due 1 September 2017 as evidence  
of valid up to that date and covering the theft date in February 2017. As I understand things 
when taxing a car, a valid MOT is required. So, in the absence of a valid MOT, which Im 
persuaded is the case, I dont accept  Mr Ms testimony that the car was as he states  
driveable and legal  to be used on a road.
I remain satisfied £19,500 fairly  reflects the cars  value.
my final decision
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £19,500. As is usual where we make  a 
money award interest  should  be added. So, Ageas must add simple  interest  at 8% per year 
from 16 May 20191 until the date payment is sent. 
1 Ageas initial  offer was made on 16 May 2019 and the investigation was lengthy and, in my view, 
necessary. There were  delays on both sides but still there remained evidential gaps that Mr M could 
have provided information  (not least persuasive  evidence of tax and MOT to assist a fair valuing 
exercise).
Ref: DRN69370052Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2021.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69370053provisional decision
date of decision: 26 April 2021
complaint
Mr M complains about  how Ageas Insurance Limited handled  a claim  under a specialist motor  
insurance policy.
background
Theres a detailed  background of which the parties are aware. I wont rehearse it all here, but the 
main points are;
Mr M bought a relatively rare and old car as a restoration project.
He apparently spent around  two years restoring the car.
He says it was almost  complete and worth around £40,000.
He arranged for the car to be moved from his workshop  to a friends residential garage.
A few weeks  later he found the garage security bolts dislodged and the car was missing.
He reported the theft to police and shortly after made a claim.
Ageas instructed a specialist investigator who corresponded and met with Mr M.
The investigator thought Mr M had given  inconsistent accounts.
Ageas offered Mr M £5,000 which he rejected.
Our investigator noted that Ageas hadnt sought the advice of an engineer  to value the car.
Ageas later offered £19,500 on the basis  that it wasnt satisfied  the car had been fully 
restored as Mr M had described.
Mr M instructed his own engineer who concluded  the cars value at £26,000.
The investigator recommended  this amount  as the settlement, which Mr M was willing to 
accept, but Ageas didnt.

my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Ms policy covers the total loss of the car up to its market value or the amount he declared in the 
policy schedule (£40,000), whichever is the least. So, if the market value  is £50,000 the most  hed 
receive is £40,000, and if the market value is £10,000 then hed receive that and not the amount he 
declared.
The policy doesnt appear to define market value  but we take it to mean the price  which the 
consumer would have  had to pay for a comparable vehicle across the various markets, immediately 
before the time of the damage or loss. Mr Ms car was old and relatively rare so its appropriate that 
its valued  by qualified engineers.
Ageas and Mr Ms engineers differ in their assessment   Mr Ms has given the higher value of 
£26,000. Im not persuaded this value fairly reflects  the market value and will explain why. The higher  
valuation assumes that Mr Ms car appeared to have been restored to a reasonably good, but not 
concourse standard. Its clear the engineer  carried  out detailed research  in reaching £26,000. The 
body of the report  contains information the engineer considered from documents, photos  and what Mr 
M said, including  work done on the engine.
Ref: DRN69370054The photos of the car during  restoration  end at the point the car had been resprayed and indeed it 
was still masked  up. There are no photos of the finished vehicle and so much relies on what  Mr M 
says about the final condition. During Ageas  investigation Im satisfied  there were issues  about Mr 
Ms consistency and reliability.  For example, its initially  recorded that Mr M said he transported the 
car to his friends garage, and they were  the only two people to know the car was stored there.  But he 
later clarified  this to say hed asked someone else hed met two or three times to take the car there.  I 
find that an unusual inconsistency  to make in the circumstances. Theres also an issue about Mr M 
being abroad  for a period, which he denied. But the investigator records an international dialling tone 
when calling Mr M, his friend saying  he was abroad and social media posts from Mr M showing he 
was abroad. Im satisfied  this supports concern  over the reliability of what Mr M says.
Taking these  factors into account Im not persuaded the condition of Mr Ms car was as concluded by 
his engineer.  I accept the bodywork had been restored and resprayed. But because of my concern 
about the reliability of what Mr M says, Im not persuaded it has been shown, to the extent its more 
likely than not, that the car was as complete as he has said. And Im not persuaded  theres enough  
evidence to show the car was mechanically  sound and operational. Ive considered the police  report  
which notes Mr M had said the car wasnt driveable  when  it was stolen.  
Having thought about this carefully I think the basis of the higher valuation is overstated on the 
objective evidence  available. Its clear the engineer  researched the value of a replacement  and this 
ranged from £3,000 for a project vehicle to around £40,000 for concourse standard. The photos  of 
Mr Ms car show it was in the process of restoration but, for reasons  explained, Im not persuaded it 
was ready to drive as a finished article or in a mechanically driveable state. Ageas  offer of £19,500 
appears to me to strike a fair balance given  the unfinished state  of the car.
Ageas has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly and I dont think it always met this duty.  It didnt  
instruct an engineer to value  the car until very late on, but I dont think  thats delayed matters  given Mr 
M hasnt been willing  to accept that amount. Its also apparent that, perhaps through  frustration, Mr M 
didnt provide  information requested of him and Ageas had made it clear  it needed this to complete  
the investigation.  While  the investigation was particularly long, Im not satisfied that was all down to 
Ageas.
my provisional  decision
I require  Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £19,500.
Ref: DRN6937005