K820x#14Complaint
D, a small business, says Santander  UK Plc didnt do enough  to help when  it fell victim to a 
banking payment scam. It says Santander should have done more  to prevent the payment 
going through and to recover the money from the scammer.
Background
On 29 March 2017, Ds company secretary made  an online payment of £12,560 from its 
Santander current account on the instruction of, who they believed,  was Ds managing 
director (MD). I gather the money  was transferred at around 13:17.
D subsequently discovered it had actually  made  the payment to a scammer  who had 
impersonated Ds MD and sent an email  containing the scammers own account details. D 
contacted Santander at 16:11 to tell it what  had happened, and to see if there was anything  
the bank could do to help.  Santander blocked  Ds account and emailed the scammers bank 
at 17:17 to see if any of Ds money could be recovered. But the scammers bank confirmed 
that no money remained from Ds transaction.
D was unhappy  with how Santander handled  things, so it referred a complaint to us. One of 
our adjudicators looked at what had happened  and didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. The adjudicator felt Santander  had done all it reasonably could to try and help,  so 
they didnt think  it needed to do anything  more.
D disagreed, saying the amount paid and faster payment method used was unusual enough 
for Santander to at least contact D, and that Santander didnt do enough to try and recover 
the money that was lost. So, the complaint  was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Ref: DRN66825292Regulated firms like Santander  are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to, among other  things,  look to identify  and help prevent transactions   
particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result 
of a scam  (something  also recognised  by the British Standards  Institutes October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   Code of 
Practice, which a number  of banks and trade associations  were involved in the development 
of).
 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with D when it made a payment of £12,560  to a new payee in March  2017, or whether it 
should have done more  than it did.
But I dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual  enough  to say 
Santander ought to have  had concerns  that D was being scammed. The amount of the 
payment that D made wasnt particularly unusual for it and it was verified  with a one-time 
passcode sent to a registered number. Having reviewed Ds account activity in the weeks  
and months leading up to the transaction, I dont think it was sufficiently suspicious to 
conclude Santander  ought to have  identified that it may be potentially fraudulent. 
Ds noted that other, legitimate, payments it had attempted to make had been recognised by 
Santander as suspicious and questioned. That may be the case but, as I say, there was little 
about this particular transaction that could reasonably be considered  unusual  or suspicious. 
Even if Santander had flagged  the payment as suspicious, Im not persuaded D wouldnt still 
have authorised it. I say that because of the sophisticated nature of the scam and the fact 
that the company secretary clearly genuinely believed  she was acting  on the instruction of 
the MD to make the payment.
 
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Santander  did anything  wrong  by following the 
instructions D gave and sending  the money.
When D told Santander that it had been  scammed the bank acted fairly quickly, blocking the 
account and contacting the scammers bank just over an hour later to see if any of Ds 
money was still in the receiving account  and could be retrieved. Unfortunately, by that time  
which was four hours after the transfer was made   the beneficiary  bank  confirmed Ds 
money had gone.  Its not unusual in scams like this for the scammers to withdraw  funds very 
quickly. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest more funds would have been 
recoverable had Santander acted sooner.
Ref: DRN66825293Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of Santander, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to 
that information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve the money was all 
Santander could  do to help D at that stage. 
Its unfortunate that Ds lost out, and I understand that this whole experience  will have been 
very upsetting for its staff.  But, in the circumstances, I dont think  I can fairly say that 
Santander should have done more to prevent D losing its money. I cant  hold Santander 
responsible for D having fallen victim to a scam, and I think  it did what it could to help once it 
knew what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander  to compensate  
D for its loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6682529