K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) sold her debt without advising her 
and should not have  included interest in that debt. 
Background
Miss R took out a fixed sum loan in April 2017 but when her circumstances changed she had 
difficulty meeting the repayments. In October  2018 a payment plan of £1 per month for 12 
months was agreed  with Hitachi but they subsequently sold the debt, to a company I will call 
L, in November  of that year.
Miss R was disappointed to hear her debt had been sold on. She believes Hitachi should  not 
have done that and shes disappointed that they didnt tell her that was their intention. Shes  
also upset that the debt thats been sold includes the interest that was due on the original 
loan. She thinks that only the capital sum should  have been  sold on and shes explained 
thats what her other creditors have  done. Shes also expressed concerns that Hitachi would 
not tell her what they sold the debt for.
Hitachi said they had a legal right to transfer  the debt and that this was explained within their 
terms and conditions. They said they hadnt  added any extra interest to the debt than was 
agreed under the original fixed sum loan. They didnt think they needed to tell Miss R what 
they sold the debt for because they explained this was commercially sensitive information.
So Miss R referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. 
He didnt think Hitachi had done  anything wrong.  He explained that the terms of the fixed 
sum loan agreement stated we may assign or transfer our rights under the agreement to an 
entity that is appropriately authorised.  So he thought it was clear Hitachi were able to sell on 
the debt.
He noted that Hitachi  hadnt told Miss R they were selling the debt but he didnt think this 
meant they couldnt  make a commercial decision to do so.
He explained  that the amount  the debt was sold for was a commercially  sensitive  piece of 
information and he would  not expect  Hitachi to divulge it. He understood that the sale price  
had not affected  the amount of the debt in any way so he didnt think Hitachi  had been 
unreasonable.
He also didnt think there was evidence that the amount  due under the agreement had been  
increased with any additional interest  and he didnt think the amount of the debt needed to 
be just the capital sum. He understood that Miss R had explained other creditors  hadnt  
transferred the interest portion of the original debt but he didnt think their actions were  
important here. He was only considering the actions of Hitachi  and he thought, overall, 
theyd been reasonable.
Miss R disagreed with the investigator. She said Hitachi  had acted illegally when transferring 
the debt and that their agreement said they may transfer their rights not that they would. 
She insisted  they should have told her before selling on the debt and she therefore asked for 
a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN68641012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Miss R so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Hitachi are able to legally sell on the debt. This is explained in the terms and conditions  of 
the fixed sum loan they agreed  with Miss R. I understand the agreement  says they may 
transfer their rights  but this doesnt mean they shouldnt:  just that they can do if they choose 
to, as was the case here.
In those circumstances its often the case  that a business will inform  the consumer  thats 
what it intends to do. Here  I can see that Hitachi hasnt chosen  to do that. But I dont think 
thats disadvantaged Miss R in any way as they were always  entitled  to transfer the debt.
The debt is the total sum agreed  in the fixed sum loan. Whilst I would not expect the 
business to be adding on any extra interest or charges in these circumstances, I dont think it 
would be fair to suggest they should reduce  the amount due under the agreement either. So 
I would not agree that Hitachi have been unreasonable.
Hitachi would not want to disclose how much they sell debts for. Thats  information  that, I 
think its reasonable to say, they would not want their competitors or other  debt collection 
companies to become  aware of. I dont think it would be likely to assist Miss Rs complaint 
either. The debt that was transferred appears  to be the same: its not been  changed  as a 
result of the sale.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Hitachi have done  anything wrong  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6864101