K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr S. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  RBS sold Mr S the policy 
at the same  time that he applied  for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr S and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think RBS made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I 
can see that the PPI was set out as a choice in the application form, and the form 
which Mr S signed  has a tick to apply  for PPI. 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Ss individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  The information on the application form wasnt as good as it 
should have been,  and I dont know whether  other  information was given alongside 
the form. But I dont  think, in his circumstances, full information about costs  and 
benefits would have affected  whether he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like hed 
have been affected  by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy.  
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN65391282But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, and so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  23 October 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6539128