K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  at a branch at the same time as taking a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage in 2000 and the mortgage and policy started  in 2001.
Halifaxs mortgage questionnaire from the time says Mr S had been with his employer for 
around 12 years. He has told us he worked  as a sprayer. The questionnaire says he did a 
sort of driving. Mrs S has told us she was self-employed at the time and the questionnaire 
suggests her income was a quarter of Mr Ss.
Mr S has told us he was entitled  to at least six but less than 12 months pay for redundancy 
or sickness. He has said he was entitled  to full sick pay for at least  six months.  He has also 
said he was entitled  to at least 12 months redundancy pay. With everything else he has said 
in mind, from what I have I think it unlikely his redundancy pay was worth 12 months  full pay 
or more. Mr and Mrs S have  told us that, aside from his work benefits and Mrs Ss income,  
they didnt have any other means  with which to pay the mortgage if Mr S couldnt work.
The PPI provided  cover on Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered to pay Mr and Mrs Ss monthly 
mortgage payment  plus 25%. This benefit was £310.90 initially and cost £18.84 per month.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that Mr and Mrs S took out a further advance in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs S 
about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN60511172The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs S arranged  a further advance  on their mortgage after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN60511173The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of 
Mr and Mrs Ss case. There was also the Mortgage  Code which was a voluntary code 
followed by subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about 
mortgage related  matters,  it also included some insurance related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN60511174-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ss 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent Mr and Mrs S suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs S signed a separate box on 
their mortgage application  to say they wanted the cover.  Ive nothing that makes me think  
they were told they had to sign this box if they didnt want the cover.  Taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  Mr and Mrs S knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it 
without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Mr and Mrs S agree that advice was provided  during this sale.  This means 
Halifax had to advise  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. There is no record of what the adviser  discussed  in 
relation to the policy. This is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  
had some limited information about Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances - for example 
from the mortgage application, which showed  Mr S was the main  earner. But there is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Mr S would have been 
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy didnt 
fully meet  Mr and Mrs Ss needs. For example, theres nothing  to suggest Halifax considered  
whether Mr S had any pre-existing  medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN60511175-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy.  Mr S was the main  earner.  If he couldnt work for 
an extended period, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs S would suffer a fall in income  and could 
find their finances under strain, even allowing for Mrs Ss pay and Mr Ss work benefits. 
The PPI benefit  would  help Mr and Mrs S manage the consequences   and they didnt  
have savings or anything else like that to fall back on.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. There  
was nothing about Mr Ss employment or occupation which wouldve made  it difficult for 
them to claim. The policy  terms didnt exclude  disability claims arising from pre-existing 
health issues - although  what I have doesnt persuade me Mr S had any such  health 
issues in any case.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim - and for 
disability would only pay if Mr S were unable to do his job, or any similar job, and also 
unable to do any work his experience,  education or training reasonably qualified him to 
do. But it still provided valuable cover in Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances given Mr Ss 
position as main earner, the role the policy benefit could  play in helping  Mr and Mrs S if 
Mr S couldnt work for an extended  time,  the fact it protected the mortgage payments  on 
Mr and Mrs Ss home and the potential consequences if Mr and Mrs S were to have 
become unable to make the payments on a loan secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs S were  given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, that it would protect their payments were  Mr S unable  
to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I say that 
bearing in mind that their mortgage  application form, above where they signed to take the 
PPI, said it was insurance  against  accident, sickness  and involuntary unemployment  and 
called it Mortgage Repayments Insurance.  Also I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs S wouldve  
taken the PPI without  any sense  of what it was for and how much the premium might  be. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs S all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ref: DRN60511176Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ss. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs S. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs S suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs S would have still taken the policy, had Halifax  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN60511177The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs S had some interest in taking PPI. By this I 
mean, when Halifax  advised  them there was a suitable product they could buy that would 
protect their mortgage payments in the event Mr S couldnt work  due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment, they concluded  they wanted  that product. But they made that decision based 
on incomplete information, meaning what  they thought they were getting is not exactly what 
they got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the PPI, from what I have it doesnt appear that Halifax told them the exact 
premium at the point  they applied. Having said that, I dont think it likely Mr and Mrs S would 
have taken the PPI without  some idea of the approximate cost.
Also, if when  they started  paying for the PPI its cost had been significantly at odds with their 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible Mr and Mrs S mightve have raised  this with 
Halifax or reconsidered their decision. But they continued to pay for the PPI - and did so for 
many years. Overall, Im not persuaded  they would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs S would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr S wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr S be unable  to do his own 
job, or any similar job, and also unable to do any paid work his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking the PPI. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr S was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs S should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
Ref: DRN60511178evidence to suggest Mr S wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  for 
example, he was in permanent  employment, he didnt have any existing health issues  and 
disability claims related to pre-existing issues werent excluded in any case. So I think 
Mr and Mrs S still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs S might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs S from taking  the policy, Mr and Mrs S, in their circumstances, still had some  
good reasons  to take it.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr S were not only unable to 
do his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job the insurer  thought he might  
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what to do.  And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although given their circumstances, on 
balance I think they would  still have been  interested in taking  the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim  they made would be limited  to a 
24 month period.  This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for. 
But 24 months was longer  than Mr S wouldve received full sick pay for and I think it likely  his 
redundancy entitlement was also worth  significantly less than 24 months full salary. In those 
circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs S wouldve  still thought a policy that paid up to 
24 monthly loan repayments  would have  been  of benefit to them and would help them  
manage the consequences  should  Mr S be unable to work for a prolonged period in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed multiple  claims to be made and 
couldve helped reduce Mr and Mrs Ss outgoings  at a difficult  and uncertain time - and 
helped ensure their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for them,  sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr S were made redundant, or unable to work through  
accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr and Mrs S 
would have taken  the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN60511179Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs S found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs S would not have  taken the PPI, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken it had 
they been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  they were buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put them in a better  position  
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN605111710my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6051117