K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited turned down his private  medical insurance 
claim.
background
On 24 May 2018, Mr J took out the policy and it started on 25 May 2018.  It was taken out on 
a moratorium basis, which meant that any pre-existing condition from the previous three 
years would be excluded.  
On 25 May 2018, Mr J experienced some  intermittent loss of vision. The following day, it 
happened again and so he was admitted  to an NHS  hospital. It was thought he had probable 
giant cell arteritis (GCA) and he was discharged. Mr J wanted AXA to cover  any treatment 
he may need for his condition.
AXA turned down the claim. It thought Mr Js condition was pre-existing  and therefore  not 
covered. Unhappy with this, Mr J brought a complaint to this service.  
I issued a provisional decision on 4 June 2019.  My findings were:
The policy  defines  pre-existing  medical condition as:
any disease, illness  or injury for which:
you have received medication,  advice or treatment; or
you have experienced symptoms;
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the three yearsbefore the start 
of your cover.
Ive looked at the discharge summary from the hospital. This says that one week  prior to 
Mr Js admission, he had experienced a mild ache affecting his thighs and arms, as well as a 
mild headache.  He also had two nights  of drenching night sweats, but no fever. Then  on 
25 May 2018 (the day the policy started), he developed eight episodes of loss of vision 
affecting his right eye, lasting one minute. 
I see that Mr J went to see his GP on 8 June 2018 to discuss  what  had happened. The GP 
recorded that Mr J had sudden onset of blurred vision in his right eye ten days earlier 
(25 May 2018) just after getting up. He then had several more  episodes lasting a minute. 
The following  day it recurred several  times and so he went  to A&E. 
Mr J says the symptoms he was experiencing in the week  before his admission to hospital  
were mild and he had no reason to think they were  indicative of something more serious. He 
says hed done a lot of hiking and thought the aches  in his thighs and arms were  a result of 
that. 
This service generally takes the view that a claim shouldnt be excluded  if a consumer has 
only experienced minor generalised  symptoms before the policy  is taken out. Mr Js only 
symptoms before the policy  started  were  mild aches in his thighs and arms, a mild headache  
and night sweats, and the symptoms werent serious enough for him to visit his GP for 
advice. On balance,  Im minded to agree with him that the claim shouldnt fall under the 
moratorium.
Ref: DRN69667022I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make.   
AXA didnt accept  my provisional decision,  and made the following main points:
whilst  Mr J may have  thought his pre-existing symptoms were  mild and insignificant  - 
clinically they were  significant.
although Mr Js symptoms taken  alone arent uncommon, it thinks  that the 
combination of these  symptoms would have been  highly suspicious of giant  cell 
arteritis. 
Mr J accepted my provisional  decision.  However,  he pointed out that when the policy was 
due to renew last month, he decided not to renew it. He wants to know  if his policy  could 
now be reinstated. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate AXAs point that Mr Js existing symptoms were clinically significant. However, 
this service takes the view that consumers arent expected to have expert  knowledge about 
their health.  We take into account various factors in cases such as this, including the 
intensity of the symptoms,  and the seriousness in which they were regarded.  We also 
consider the extent of the connection between the existing  symptoms and the condition that 
gave rise to the claim - and the foreseeability of this. We also take into account whether the 
consumer could reasonably be expected to be aware the symptoms may give rise to a claim. 
Mr J described  the symptoms that predated  the start of the policy as mild, and he didnt seek 
any medical advice  about them. Whilst AXAs medical director says that Mr Js symptoms  
were highly suspicious of giant cell arteritis, I wouldnt have expected Mr J to know that or be 
able to foresee  that he would later be diagnosed with this condition.  He put his symptoms 
down to some recent hiking trips,  or perhaps the start of the flu. That doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me, and so I dont  think he was aware his symptoms may give rise to a 
future claim. 
That being  the case, I remain of the opinion that it wouldnt be reasonable for AXA to rely on 
the moratorium, when  Mr J had only experienced what he considered to be some minor 
generalised symptoms  before taking out the policy. 
Mr J has explained he decided not to renew  his cover at the last renewal, because AXA had 
turned down his claim. Hes asked if his cover can be reinstated. This is a new issue and so 
Mr J will need  to take this up with AXA directly in the first instance. 
Ref: DRN69667023my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to 
deal with Mr Js claim  under the remaining policy  terms  and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6966702