K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a secured 
loan. Miss H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold this policy because she 
never agreed to having PPI and wasnt even  aware she had it. 
Ill refer mainly to Halifax  for consistency.
background
In 2003, Miss H took out a £15,000 secured loan, payable over 180 months.  At the same  
time she bought  a PPI policy to protect  her loan repayments in the event of becoming  unable 
to work or losing her job. The cost was £12.71 per month.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Miss H disagreed and 
its been passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint.
In coming to a decision about this case, Ive used what weve been told by both parties  and 
also used what I know about  these types  of sale. Weve  spoken to Halifax, for example, 
about its sales methods  from that time and from this I think its likely  Miss H wouldve  first 
verbally agreed to the PPI. The relevant documents would then be printed from a computer 
system and given to her - reflecting her decision - for checking and agreement.
I say this because  we asked Halifax for the original  sales material and I can see Miss H 
signed the Loan Agreement  in November 2003.  I note theres a section which says Do you 
want Personal Loan Repayments  Cover?  with YES and NO boxes next to it.
The YES box was selected and the NO box was left blank. So whilst  Im sure her 
recollections of knowing  nothing about  the PPI are genuinely  held,  I think this shows Miss H 
wouldve known, back in 2003, about  the cover.
Underneath where the cover was chosen  by Miss H, theres  information  which  sets out the 
cost of the loan,  the cost of the PPI policy and the sum of both figures. So I think  its clear  
enough that the loan and PPI were  separate products. And I think she would have known the 
PPI wasnt something she needed  to have  if she didnt want  to. 
I therefore think the policy was presented as optional and Miss H consented to it.. 
Halifax recommended  this cover and this means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for 
Miss Hs circumstances.  Overall, I think it was.
This is because I think she was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we see in these policies. I note the loan was also loan secured against  her home 
Ref: DRN69231002and taken out over a very long period of time.  Given the consequences if she couldnt keep 
up the payments,  I can see how she could have had a use for such a policy.  It was there to 
help in times of financial difficulty. 
Miss H didnt have any additional protection from her work if she was off sick. But in the 
event of a successful claim, the PPI policy could  have paid a monthly benefit for up to 60 
months for illness or 12 months in the case of unemployment. This would have been in 
addition to any other benefits or savings Miss H already had in place. 
So in her situation, I dont think the recommendation to have PPI was unreasonable  and I 
think the policy was suitable for her.
Halifax also needed to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading. Obviously 
I cant say what was said to Miss H at the point of sale.  And I cant confirm  she was told 
everything she needed to know. But as Ive said, I think  the costs  were clearly displayed  on 
the agreement  and I think she would have been told about what the policy covered.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. And I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6923100