K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about how it dealt with a 
claim under his leasehold property insurance  policy.
background
Mr M made a claim under his property insurance policy following an escape of water from a 
flat above. Due to the extent of the damage  Mr Ms tenants had to move  into alternative 
accommodation for a few months.
Mr M was asked  to provide several quotations  for the required work. But due to the high 
costs involved and difficulties validating the claim UKI appointed  a loss adjuster to look into 
things. By the time the loss adjuster gained access to the property a significant  amount of 
rectification work had been undertaken by Mr M. So UKI looked to pay Mr M £25,000 on 
account.
Once the loss adjuster attended  and the rebuild  cost of the property was established UKI 
advised Mr M that the alternative accommodation payment was above what was allowed 
under the policy  and gave  notice. But Mr M wasnt happy about this and the area of London 
that his tenants  were  placed in as he believed it was expensive amongst  other things.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She thought  UKI 
had acted reasonably as it was clear it had paid more  than it was obliged to under the policy 
(by over £16,000). She accepted that the claim had been delayed but thought Mr M 
contributed to this. Overall, she thought  UKI had acted reasonably.
Mr M didnt  agree. He didnt think he had contributed to any delay by not allowing access to 
his property. And said that hed asked our investigator not to look into this matter as he 
wanted to advance things with his solicitor. Although he eventually  asked  for an ombudsman  
to review the matter.  So, the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope 
my explanation helps him to understand why Im not upholding his complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration as his property was damaged  due to an escape of water 
through no fault of his own. And given the level of damage it was bound to take a while  to 
undertake the necessary repairs.
But UKI put his tenants into temporary  accommodation for over three  months and paid over 
£16,000 more  in rent than the policy allowed.  So, I cant say it has done anything  wrong 
here.
There were a few delays in advancing  the claim but UKIs agents  notes  show drawn out 
attempts to contact  Mr M or his agent  in trying  to gain access to the property. I know Mr M 
disputes this, and I agree that is unfortunate that telephone records  dont exist to support 
UKIs position. But, on balance, Im satisfied that UKIs agent tried to contact Mr M. Ive seen 
Ref: DRN62486942the call notes and UKI was paying  an awful lot of money on alternative  accommodation  so it 
wouldnt make  any sense  for it to delay  things. 
I know Mr M feels that the cost of living in the area of the alternative accommodation was 
high, but such  costs would have affected  his tenants, not him. And Im satisfied  from the 
information before me that UKI acted reasonably in gaining accommodation as best it could 
for Mr M in a congested  part of the country.  Plus, there was always  going to be a fair degree  
of inconvenience  caused in moving. But this was because of the damage to the property and 
the need to move out as opposed to UKIs actions.
Finally, I know  Mr M wasnt happy that UKIs loss adjuster  discussed  his claim with his 
builder. But Mr M arranged for his builder to provide access to the property so that the claim 
could be advanced.  And I dont  think that the loss adjuster did anything wrong in discussing 
the repairs and claim generally  with Mr Ms builder,  especially  as there  had been  delay  in 
getting access to the property  and liaising  with Mr M. 
I know Mr M didnt like the time scales that was agreed between his builder  and the loss 
adjuster. But I cant say a rough timescale  agreement between two professionals  was 
unreasonable and it was done with the aim of moving the claim forward.  And any claimant 
has a duty to mitigate their position  and the alternative accommodation allowance  had 
already been significantly  exceeded by this time. As such, I dont think UKI acted  
unreasonably in trying to agree a timescale  with Mr Ms builder.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6248694