K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham  & Gloucester, 
mis-sold them this PPI.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer mainly to Lloyds throughout this decision.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mr and 
Mrs Bs circumstances at the time as well as the policys benefits, limitations and exclusions) 
arent disputed. So I wont  repeat all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators previously has looked  into the complaint and they said they didnt 
think we should  uphold it. Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion  they didnt raise  any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in making a decision 
about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive summarised my reasons  
below.
I think it was clear enough at the time of this sale in 2002 that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to 
take out the PPI if they didnt want to. I say this because I note they took out their original  
mortgage in 2000 and operated it for a few years  without  any PPI. They then took out PPI in 
2002 after apparently rearranging their borrowing requirements and its at this point, they 
were sold PPI. They arranged for both the existing and the new borrowing amounts to be 
insured by the policy
By definition  therefore,  I think  its reasonable for me to say that they must have known PPI 
was something they didnt  need  to have.  Thats  because they had a mortgage for some two 
years without any PPI attached. 
Ref: DRN68879762In addition to this, I also note that Mr and Mrs B set up their PPI coverage  in a way which  
covered only Mr B. Mrs B wasnt  named  on the policy. So, although this was a joint 
mortgage, Mr B was the higher earner  and I make the assumption this policy  set-up fitted 
their financial  circumstances of that time. They also filled out a specific  PPI application form, 
which was headed  Payment Protection  Plus Proposal. I therefore think it would have been 
clear enough  what  this application was for and I note both he and Mrs B signed the 
application. 
I was also sent evidence showing that Mr and Mrs B filled out a direct debit instruction 
enabling the new PPI premium of £44 per month to be transferred from their bank account. 
This means  Mr B became  insured against losing his job or being unable  to work and so he 
Mrs B could have received around £824 per month from the policy  to help pay their joint 
mortgage repayments in the event of a successful claim.
Given these circumstances, I think this shows that Mr and Mrs B knew  the PPI cover  was 
optional, and they set it up in a way that reflected  their needs and circumstances of the time. 
I think they consented to the PPI although I accept they may not remember  all this now.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B as part of an advised sale. It therefore had a 
duty to check that the PPI was right for them. Ive considered this with care and Im satisfied  
the evidence about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances of the time, shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example,  Mr B appears to have been 
eligible for the PPI and although he may have had some sick pay with his job, this hasnt 
been made clear  in the complaint details weve been sent. Nevertheless, the PPI could have 
paid out a monthly sum for up to a year if claimed  on, so I think the PPI was suitable  and it 
being recommended  to them wasnt unreasonable.  
Also, there was nothing obvious  about  Mr Bs occupation which would have  made it difficult  
for him to make a successful claim on the policy in my view.  He hasnt told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  have affected his ability to claim and there were no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems. The existing medical 
condition relating to Mrs B is, Im afraid, not relevant as she wasnt named on the policy.
Its certainly possible the information Lloyds  gave to Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. However, in my view, this doesnt alter my overall decision. I 
think they chose  to take the PPI out and it looks like they specifically wanted  this type of 
cover, with Mr B being covered rather than Mrs B. It wasnt  fundamentally wrong  for them  as 
Ive concluded  above, nor was it too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were 
buying from the information  they were given  at the point of sale.  It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable for them  so it seems like it would have been useful if something went  
wrong. Because of this I dont  think Mr and Mrs B would have declined  the cover,  even if 
Lloyds had done more or explained  things better.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have  still taken out the PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and I think the policy could 
have provided  a useful benefit  at a difficult time. And in those circumstances, I think  that they 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
Ref: DRN68879763the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should  have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint, just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought carefully about all these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but this means Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to do 
anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6887976