K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the handling of his account by PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA   
(PayPal).
background
Mr M says on 9 August  2018 he received a payment of £730  in his account  for an item hed 
sold. PayPal then reversed the payment on 19 August. He says this was partially  set off 
against a credit balance of £468.31  he had in his account at the time, leaving him with a 
negative balance.  
Mr M also says when  he contacted PayPal  about  the matter  it explained  the account that 
issued the payment had been defrauded, so it was reversed. And it said the transaction 
wasnt eligible for seller protection. So Mr M says he wants  PayPal to reinstate his credit 
balance and delete the negative balance on his account. And he wants  it to compensate him 
for his time and effort  in dealing with this matter.
PayPal rejected Mr Ms complaint but it offered  to write off the negative balance  and put his 
account back to neutral  as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld.  He said the transaction  didnt 
meet the eligibility requirements for seller  protection in the terms and conditions  of Mr Ms 
account. And the transaction details show it wasnt eligible for seller  protection.  The 
investigator also said under the terms and conditions PayPal was entitled to remove the 
funds from Mr Ms account in these circumstances  and to use a debt collection agency to 
recover the amount  outstanding from him.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said PayPals platform was 
defrauded, so it cant use terms  relating to protection in relation to the underlying  transaction  
to protect  itself from a problem with its own platform.  
Mr M also said the relevant clause  couldnt  be used to protect PayPal for negligence in 
relation to how its systems are designed  without  expressly saying so and it would probably 
be contrary to unfair  contract law anyway.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully  at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account relating to the eligibility 
requirements for seller  protection. I think they make it clear such protection only applies to 
transactions marked by PayPal as eligible on the account holders transaction details page.  
And that such protection doesnt  apply to the supply of services.
Ive seen a screenshot of the transaction details for the matter  in dispute and they state the 
transaction was for a service and that it was ineligible for seller  protection.  I acknowledge   
Ref: DRN64693602Mr M says he couldnt see this information  at the time, but Im satisfied  from what Ive seen 
that seller protection didnt apply to this transaction under the terms of Mr Ms account.
I also think it is worth noting that the available information indicates Mr M made the 
arrangements to sell the relevant item to the buyer  outside the usual channels for a sale with 
payment via PayPal,  as reflected in his email correspondence with the buyer. So, it appears 
the payment was effectively a stand alone transaction, so far as PayPal was concerned, 
rather than being  linked  to a specific sale. And this means the usual position applied when it 
became apparent that the payment had been  made fraudulently  it was liable to be 
reversed.
In short,  seller protection of the kind offered by PayPal  is the exception, rather than the 
normal position where a fraudulent payment is made. And PayPal didnt tell Mr M he had 
seller protection  in this case,  so Im satisfied he wasnt  entitled  to expect it. Im also satisfied 
that, in these circumstances, the terms of the account entitled PayPal to remove the funds 
for the fraudulent transaction from Mr Ms account  and to refer the matter to a debt collection 
agency when  the negative  balance  on his account remained unpaid.     
Ive noted Mr Ms argument  that this was a fraud  against PayPals platform  and that the 
terms it has relied on therefore arent relevant.  But I think the practical  reality  is that this 
situation arose as a result of Mr M selling  an item to someone who fraudulently  used 
somebody elses account to pay for it. So, that amounted to a fraud  against  Mr M and Im 
therefore satisfied  PayPal was entitled  to rely on the terms and conditions  of his account as 
the basis for reversing the transaction and rejecting his complaint.
Im pleased to note, however that as a gesture of goodwill, PayPal has offered to write  off 
the sum of £265.95, thereby restoring Mr Ms account to a neutral  balance. I think this is 
reasonable and I dont  think  it would be fair for me to ask it to pay him any additional  
compensation, in the circumstances.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint against PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6469360