K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about the premium increase Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
charged him for his multi-car motor policy when  he changed one of the cars to be covered 
during the policy  year.  
background
Mr F had four cars insured under this policy. His daughter changed  her car to a newer  model 
and Admiral charged a further £503.40  including the admin  fee of £19.50. M F thought  this 
was excessively high,  given it was same type of car but simply a newer model so he 
complained. Admiral also quoted for yet another model of the same make  of car the next day 
and the premium increase for that one was £712.04.
Admiral said had charged him the correct price.  It said it would be happy to remove  the car 
from the policy and that it wouldnt charge him the cancellation fee of £84.50.
It also paid him £20 compensation as a gesture  of goodwill. 
Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think Admiral  
had done anything wrong. Mr F didnt agree so his complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
The issue  here is the amount of the increase  in premium to be paid for a change of car on a 
multi-car policy. The car Mr Fs daughter  wanted  to change to was the same make of car, 
but simply a newer  model. So I can understand Mr Fs concern given the amount of the 
premium increase. 
But as the adjudicator explained, this service doesnt tell insurers  how to rate such a change  
or what amount  to charge  for such a change. Insurers are entitled to decide  what  risks they 
wish to cover and what premium they want to charge for that risk. What this service does do 
is to check the increase  adheres to the insurers underwriting policy,  which  in turn then 
means Mr F wasnt  singled  out and wasnt treated unfairly, as such an increase would apply 
to any other  customer in the same circumstances.
Here, Admiral has shown us this. However,  I cant show  this to Mr F as its commercially 
sensitive and we publish our final decisions.  I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr F but its 
simple not information  Im permitted to share. The new car is a later model, which  its 
underwriting guide  says increases the risk. Its also new to Mr Fs daughter,  which again 
increases the risk. And given her young age and therefore lack of driving  experience, this 
also increases the risk. So this means the increase in premium Admiral  asked Mr F is 
adhering to its underwriting guide  and would apply to any other customer  in Mr Fs 
circumstances. So that means Admiral  didnt apply this risk unfairly and neither was Mr F 
singled out and treated  differently. That in turn means Admiral hasnt done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN65944372Admiral also showed  that it understood Mr F was very unhappy. It gave  him £20 as mere 
gesture of goodwill, which it didnt need to do. And it said it would waive any cancellation fee 
if Mr F wanted  to take the car off his multi-car policy and insure it elsewhere. I think  thats 
also reasonable.
my final decision
So whilst I understand Mr F will be disappointed  with my decision, its my final decision  that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6594437