K822xcomplaint
Miss R feels that Tesco Personal Finance Plc has treated her unfairly in her section 75 claim 
regarding three  sofas.
Background
In June 2020 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded that the suggested  
settlement was fair. This settlement was for Tesco to arrange  to collect  the furniture from 
Miss R and take ownership  of it, to issue a full refund for the cost of the furniture and 
reimburse the cost of the inspection report.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  my final 
decision. Tesco has responded  to say it accepts my position as laid out in my provisional 
decision. Miss R has responded with her thoughts on the matter.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I shall address Miss Rs observations in 
turn.
Miss R feels that Tesco has caused  her distress and inconvenience but hasnt explained 
why. Ive dealt  with this issue in my provisional  decision  (attached)  and see no reason to 
change my thoughts  on this matter.
Miss R says she had to arrange an independent  report. I accept this and part of the 
settlement is her being recompensed for that cost.
She says she needs to wait to get a refund before she can purchase another sofa and she 
will need  to wait to get a new sofa and possibly have  interim seating.  I appreciate  this. But 
this isnt the fault of Tesco, so I see no reason to change the settlement proposed.
Miss R says my comment that this settlement returns her to the position she was in before 
purchasing this furniture  is untrue because previously she had different furniture. Tesco  isnt 
responsible for Miss Rs previous furniture or her decision to dispose of it.
Miss R says that as the furniture has to be collected  this causes issues  considering the 
current issues with social distancing and transmission. I cannot decide  on Tescos future 
conduct in this decision as that can only be dealt with if, and once, Miss R complains  to 
Tesco about  that. I think it likely Tesco is aware  of its responsibilities  in this regard.
Ive considered everything Miss R has said but I do not think she has made  any persuasive 
comments on my provisional decision and having  considered the matter again, I see no 
persuasive reason  to change my position. Consequently, I have decided  that the suggested 
settlement is fair as I described in my provisional  decision and below.
Miss R is at liberty to not accept this decision if she so wishes. But this decision brings to an 
end our consideration of this complaint about  Tesco.
Ref: DRN63090922my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I decide that 
the suggested settlement is fair. Accordingly I direct  Tesco Personal Finance Plc to:
 arrange to collect the furniture from Miss R and take ownership of it and
 issue a full refund for the cost of the furniture and
 reimburse the cost of the inspection report to Miss R.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN63090923Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss R feels  that Tesco  Personal Finance Plc has treated her unfairly  in her section  75 claim 
regarding three sofas.
background
In April 2018  Miss R ordered  three sofas from a sofa company and paid for them using  her Tesco  
credit card. She says they werent  of satisfactory quality. There were  two repair attempts  by the sofa 
company, but Miss R remained unhappy, so she complained to Tesco. She provided an independent  
report into the state of the sofas. Tesco originally took the view that the offer by the sofa company of 
£588 (which consisted of the cost of the report, cost of repairs and VAT)  was a fair one, so it said it 
wouldnt do any more.  Miss R didnt agree so she complained here.
After some discussion  Tesco  has agreed to arrange to collect  the furniture from Miss R and take 
ownership of them, to issue  a full refund for the cost of the furniture, reimburse the cost of the 
inspection report and pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Miss R says the £100 isnt enough for the distress and inconvenience  suffered. She says that its 
unfair that Tesco will take the sofas back and then reimburse her leaving her nothing  to sit on until 
new sofas arrive. She says shes been out of pocket for a significant time already.  So her complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of their complaint.
I have decided to issue this provisional  decision as Im not persuaded  part of the resolution agreed is 
fair. So far neither Tesco  or Miss R have had opportunity to consider my position on this particular 
issue. So this provisional decision allows both sides to do this.
As Tesco has agreed to the full refund, to take the sofas, cover the cost of the inspection and pay 
£100 for distress and inconvenience, then all that needs to be decided here is whether  that is a fair 
resolution to the matter or, as Miss R thinks, the distress and inconvenience award should be more. 
So the amount of this award is an important  factor here.
The general  effect  of section 75 is that if Miss R has a claim for misrepresentation or breach  of 
contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim  against Tesco provided 
certain conditions are met. Miss R has raised  a claim  against Tesco  on this basis.  However such  a 
claim does have some  limitations as it only relates to breach of contract and misrepresentation. For 
example some aspects  of general customer service wouldnt be covered  under section 75. 
Accordingly it is important  to remember who did what and who is responsible  for what. And this is a 
decision about Tesco and its responsibilities.
£100 has been awarded against Tesco for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Miss R. But 
from what I can see this distress and inconvenience mainly stems  from how the sofa company  acted, 
its views  on the state of the sofas and how long it had the sofa in for repairs. 
I can see that Tesco  could  have treated the situation differently. But I can only make awards against it 
if it has done  something sufficiently wrong  or treated Miss R unfairly and I dont think it did this here. 
And as I explained earlier, I am limited to breach  of contract and misrepresentation of the agreement 
entered into when considering Tescos position. I cannot hold it responsible for everything that the 
sofa company did or didnt  do, some of which  sits outside of the agreement made. I can see it liaised 
Ref: DRN63090924with the sofa company  around  the second repair attempt (which Miss R agreed to) and latterly passed 
on the offer it made.  Broadly it has progressed  the matter  in a timely fashion. I can also see there 
were issues  with delivery timings which was outside of its control. So I dont think Tesco should have 
to pay the £100 for distress and inconvenience.
I fully appreciate Miss R doesnt think £100 is enough for the distress and inconvenience shes 
suffered overall. And I do not doubt this whole  situation has been of inconvenience to Miss R. But this 
complaint is about Tesco and I must not make  awards against it for things that arent its fault.  I 
appreciate this position will be disappointing to Miss R.
Miss R also thinks its unfair  that she might be without seating for some time if Tesco dont  have to 
make the refund until it is in possession  of the sofas. However it would  be unfair  on Tesco  to have to 
make the refund and not be in possession  of the sofas as it would then be in a worse off position than 
it should  be. Furthermore Tesco isnt responsible for the inability of other  companies to sell sofas and 
deliver them  to Miss R promptly.  Tesco has said it would make the refund within seven days of taking  
possession of the sofas and I think this is fair in the circumstances.
I think  by refunding the full cost of the sofas to Miss R, Tesco is putting  her back into the position  she 
was in before  purchasing the sofas.  Miss R has also had some use of these  sofas whilst in her 
possession, so I think the full refund is fair.
Miss R shouldnt have had to go to the effort  of getting an independent report  on the state of the 
sofas. So I think  its fair Tesco refunds this cost to Miss R.
Miss R says there were other solutions that Tesco could have  accepted. However this matter  has 
been going on for some  time and Tesco agreed to the investigators suggestion some  time ago (which 
is based  on our approach  to such matters).  In the interests  of finality for both Miss R and Tesco  I think  
restarting a negotiation now would unfairly  prolong matters for the parties. I think  the offer it did agree 
to was fair and reasonable  and, on that basis, I dont think Tesco acted  unfairly.
My current thinking is as Miss R is being returned to the position, she would  have been in had this not 
happened, then I think it is a fair resolution  to the matter.  And I dont think  it fair that Tesco  pay the 
£100 for distress and inconvenience. So my provisional position is that I award the suggested 
settlement of:
arrange to collect the furniture from Miss R and take ownership and
issue a full refund  for the cost of the furniture and
reimburse the cost of the inspection  report.
I fully appreciate the award Im putting forward is less than that offered  by Tesco. And that will be 
dissatisfactory to Miss R as she is no longer getting an award relating  to distress  and inconvenience  
from Tesco.  But the cause  of the distress and inconvenience suffered  doesnt sit with Tesco and its 
unfair for it to have to pay it.
my provisional  decision
In this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance Plc, for the reasons  set out above,  I am currently 
minded that the settlement  I have set out above is fair.
I now invite  both parties to give me their final thoughts on the matter within  the timeline described  
above.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6309092