K822xcomplaint
Ms P complains  about her agreement with Paymentsense Limited (PSL). She says it was 
mis-sold to her.
background 
In March 2018 Ms P entered into an agreement with PSL for the rental of a card terminal.
When she started using the terminal Ms P found that it was taking up to 2 weeks  for 
payments to reach  her bank account.  She was unhappy about  this because she says that 
the business manager who spoke  to her before she entered into the agreement told her that 
payments would be processed  in 2 days.
She complained to PSL who told her that it could take up to 5 days  for payments to be 
processed.
Ms P wasnt able to wait 5 days for payments  to be processed so in May 2018  she stopped 
using the terminal.  She complained again  to PSL and said that because she wasnt using the 
terminal she didnt feel that she should have to pay charges. As a gesture of goodwill PSL 
reduced the charges.
Ms P says that she was overcharged in the following months. She complained again to PSL 
who provided Ms P with a breakdown of charges.
Ms P was unhappy  with PSLs response. She feels that PSL hasnt honoured the reduced 
charges and that shes been charged  unfairly.  She wants  the charges refunded and the 
agreement cancelled without penalty.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She found  that PSL had overcharged Ms P and that 
these charges should be refunded. The investigator said that if Ms P wanted  to cancel the 
agreement she would  need to comply with the terms and conditions regarding  cancellation.
Ms P didnt agree. She said she initially complained  to PSL about the length of time it was 
taking to process payments and that the processing  time represented by the business 
manager was one of the factors which had induced her into entering into the agreement. 
Ms P also said that she had been  told by PSL that she would have to pay approximately 
£1500 in order to cancel the agreement  before  the term expired. She felt that she should be 
able to cancel  the agreement on the basis of the reduced charges she had agreed with PSL 
rather than the standard  charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Processing times
Ive looked at the agreement which Ms P signed on 26 March 2018.  This sets out the 
charges payable for various services  and includes terms  and conditions relating to the time 
for performance of the service and cancellation  of the agreement.
Ref: DRN60974812Ms Ps initial complaint to PSL was about  processing times. Ms P has said that she was told 
by the business manager that payments would be processed in 2 days. Ms P feels  that she 
was mis-sold the agreement because the processing times (on her evidence) take up to 
14 days and on PSLs evidence take up to 5 days, both of which is more than 2 days.
In order to determine that the agreement was mis-sold, I would need to be satisfied that the 
business manager gave incorrect or misleading  information to Ms P which wasnt  true and 
which induced her into entering into the agreement. I wasnt present when Ms P spoke to the 
business manager so I cant say exactly what was said about processing times. There  are 
no notes of the conversation. PSL has said that it takes up to 5 days to process a 
transaction. In circumstances  like this, where I cant be certain of what  was said, I need  to 
look at the documents which were available at the time when Ms P entered  into the 
agreement for evidence of any statements or terms as to processing times.
The agreement says that time shall not be of the essence in the performance  of the services 
and that any times given  for performance  are estimates only.  Based on this, Im unable to 
conclude that the agreement was mis-sold,  There isnt sufficient evidence for me to be 
certain that the business manager  gave incorrect or misleading information and the terms 
and conditions of the agreement (which  I would have expected Ms P to have read before  
signing) make it clear that any information provided  about processing times is an estimate 
only.
Ive considered whether the processing time which Ms P says that she experienced was 
unreasonable. Ms P has said that it took up to 2 weeks  for payments to reach her bank 
account. I dont  have any specific information  from Ms P regarding  when or how often this 
happened and my concern is that up to 14 days could mean anything between  2 and 14 
days. PSL has suggested that there may have been  one occasion  at the end of March 2018  
when processing  times  were longer due to the Easter bank holiday weekend.  But otherwise 
PSL has said that payments usually took up to 5 days to be processed. Taking all of the 
available information  into account, I cant be certain that Ms P has experienced 
unreasonable processing times.
Charges
Ive looked at the charges  which Ms P agreed  to pay when she entered into the agreement.  
Ive also looked  at correspondence between  Ms P and PSL where these  charges  were 
reduced. Based on what Ive seen, PSL wrote to Ms P in March 2018 and offered to reduce 
her service  charge to £12.99. This was further reduced to £4.95 with effect from August 
2018. I can see that Ms P was charged  £24.95 for service charges in May and June 2018.  
On that basis, and because PSL should only have charged a service fee of £12.99 in 
May and June, Im satisfied that Ms P has been overcharged by £11.96 in both May and 
June, amounting to a total overcharge of £23.92  for those months.
I can see that Ms P was charged  £59.82 on 27 July 2018. This charge comprised £35 non-
compliance fee, 3 months upfront PCI DSS fee of £4.95 per month and VAT of £9.97.  In 
relation to the PCI non-compliance  fee, it appears  that Ms P completed part (but not all) of 
an online  compliance check. The terms and conditions say that if the compliance check is 
not completed then a fee will be charged. Im satisfied that these charges have been 
charged in line with the terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN60974813I can see that in July and August 2018  Ms P was charged a client  line fee of £10 which  
should have been removed from June  onwards.  PSL has confirmed  that the client line fee 
was charged in error and that the overcharge of £20 has already been refunded to Ms Ps 
account.
Therefore, and taking  into account  the amounts which have already been refunded by PSL, I 
calculate that the further sum of £23.92 should be refunded to Ms Ps account,  together  with 
interest.
Cancellation
Finally, Ive looked at the terms and conditions in relation to cancellation of the agreement. 
Ms P has said that PSL has acted unfairly  by asking her to pay approximately £1500  plus 
VAT to cancel the agreement.
The terms and conditions  say that an amount equivalent to all of the monthly payments due 
for the first 18 months of the hire term is payable in the event of cancellation before the end 
of the term.
If Ms P wants to cancel  the agreement then these  terms and conditions will apply. I havent 
been provided with any information  about how the sum which Ms P says shes been asked 
to pay has been  calculated. Ms P has said that the sum has been  calculated  by reference  to 
the standard (as opposed  to the reduced)  charges. I havent seen any evidence  to be in a 
position to say whether this is the case.
If Ms P decides that she wants to cancel  the agreement and if she is unable to afford  to pay 
the cancellation fee in one lump sum, I would expect PSL to respond positively and 
sympathetically. I would  ask Ms P to make  direct contact with PSL in this regard.
my final decision. 
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Paymentsense Limited must refund the sum 
of £23.92 to Ms P together with simple interest at 8% per annum from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6097481