K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Zenith Insurance plc refused a claim on her pet insurance policy.
background
Miss W has insurance for her pet dog that includes cover for vets fees. She went  to her vet 
when she noticed  her dog was having  some problems and was advised there was a problem 
with the cruciate  ligaments in both rear legs. She was referred to another  vet who carried out 
surgery on both legs.
When she claimed for the treatment costs, Zurich refused  to pay the claim, saying her dog 
was overweight. Miss W complained to Zurich and then to this service. She said the vet had 
advised her this was a degenerative condition and wasnt caused by the dog being 
overweight.
Zurich told our investigator it had refused the claim because  Miss W was in breach of a 
policy term that required her to maintain her pets health. Our investigator  thought  Miss W 
was in breach  of that condition. But after considering further information from the treating 
vet, he concluded  that it wasnt fair for Zurich  to refuse the claim,  as the dogs weight wasnt 
the cause of the problem.
Zurich disagreed with the investigator  and requested  an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ws policy covers  her for vets fees. So she was able to make a claim for the treatment 
costs and, on the face of it, this would be a valid claim.
In these circumstances, if Zurich wishes to refuse the claim, its for Zurich  to show either that 
an exclusion  applies or that Miss W is in breach of a condition  in the policy.
Zurich has relied on the following condition: 
Throughout any period  of insurance you must look after and maintain  your pets  health  to 
avoid any condition, death, loss, theft, straying, damage or destruction  to third party 
property. In addition  you must also arrange for any treatment recommended  by your vet to 
be completed immediately  to prevent or reduce the risk of injury  or illness.
Zurich points out that Miss Ws dog has been overweight for some  time, theres  no medical 
reason for this, and the vets notes show this has been raised as an issue with her; shes  
been advised to reduce her dogs  weight.
There are various references in the vets notes  to the dog being overweight  and I can see 
why Zurich would say Miss W has not complied with this condition.  But an insurer  shouldnt  
reject an otherwise valid claim due to a breach of condition, unless that breach is relevant to 
the claim.  And the policy  term itself says the reason for keeping the pet healthy  is to avoid 
any condition So there needs  to be a connection  with the condition  that needs treatment.
Ref: DRN63370292In this case, the treating  vet has said this is a degenerative condition and it cant be said that 
being overweight is linked to the dogs condition. Zurich hasnt provided veterinary evidence  
to contradict this, but says regardless of whether the weight issue  has caused the problem, 
Miss W did not follow the vets advice.  I dont think its enough  for Zurich to rely on that, if 
theres no connection with the condition being treated. On the basis of the evidence Ive 
seen, the dogs weight made no difference  so whether Miss W followed the vets advice or 
not, the treatment  would have been  needed in any event.
In these circumstances its not fair to rely on this breach to refuse the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Zenith Insurance  plc should not rely on this 
breach of condition  and should reassess  the claim in line with the remaining  policy terms and 
limits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6337029