K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) handled a 
claim she made for an escape of water under her buildings  insurance policy.
background
In January 2018 Mrs A returned from a holiday to find her home had been damaged by a 
water leak from a pipe in the kitchen. Lloyds accepted the claim and started works to dry out 
the property.
In February 2018  Mrs A complained to Lloyds, she said she was having to put the heating on 
full because of the drying  equipment and was concerned her about  her familys health. She 
also complained  about the service she was receiving from Lloyds.
Lloyds accepted there had been  issues with the service, so it offered Mrs A £100 
compensation for this. Unhappy with Lloyds  response, Mrs A brought  the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator noted that the claim was still ongoing, but she only looked at the issues    
Mrs A had raised up until the end of March 2018 when Lloyds responded to the complaint.
Whilst she accepted  it would be inconvenient for Mrs A to have dryers in her property, she 
didnt think these would cause the house to be colder. And she thought  it was likely, given 
the time of year the flood  had occurred, that Mrs A would always  have needed to use the 
heating. She noted Mrs As family had been  suffering from ill health but didnt think  it was 
likely Lloyds  had been the cause of this. She thought the £100 offered by Lloyds for the 
service issues  was in line with what wed award  in similar cases, so she didnt think Lloyds 
needed to pay more compensation.
Mrs A didnt agree with what  our investigator said. She sent in medical  reports for three 
family members. Our investigator reviewed those  but didnt think  they showed that Lloyds  
actions had caused any illnesses to the family  as of end of March 2018. She also couldnt 
see Lloyds were aware of any conditions,  so she didnt  think it could have taken these into 
account when  dealing with the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62933262I understand Mrs As claim  has been  ongoing  for some time, and that further  issues have 
been raised since our investigator completed  her investigation. But this decision will only 
focus on events  until the end of March 2018.  Mrs A has raised  several points and I want  to 
reassure her that Ive reviewed all of these. But this decision wont  comment on all of them  
as Ive focussed on what I see as the central  issues of this complaint, the medical evidence  
and whether Lloyds  should have offered alternative  accommodation whilst the property was 
drying.
Mrs As policy says if her property is made uninhabitable by any cause under buildings 
cover, it will pay for the costs of similar alternative  accommodation. Mrs As policy doesnt 
define uninhabitable but we would generally consider it to be where access  to kitchen  or 
bathroom facilities isnt available. 
The leak was confined  to the downstairs of Mrs As property, so Ive seen nothing to suggest  
her bathroom facilities  were compromised. The leak happened in the kitchen, and I note 
Lloyds said the floor was affected by the leak. So I agree with Mrs A it would have been  
inconvenient to use the kitchen, but Im not persuaded it was so damaged  that it couldnt be 
used whilst the drying was taken place. It seems only the floor was affected, and the kitchen 
equipment was in full working order. So I dont think Lloyds were unreasonable  in not 
offering alternative  accommodation.
I appreciate Mrs A has gone to a lot of trouble in paying for medical  reports to send to this 
service. Shes sent reports  for two children  and another adult living  in the property.  I accept 
the reports show the children had suffered with asthma, but Ive seen nothing  from the 
medical experts which suggests the drying  equipment made this worse.  In one report 
provided, it says dust can exacerbate an asthma  condition. But Im satisfied the property 
wasnt suffering from dust as a result of the claim between January and March 2018. I 
believe the dust Mrs A is referring to was later when repairs  were being carried out. And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that having drying  equipment in the property was causing dust. So I 
dont think the medical  conditions  of her children meant Lloyds  should  have offered 
alternative accommodation in the circumstances. 
There is a letter from a doctor which says Mrs As mother was suffering from a chest  
infection that started before the leak was reported.  So Im satisfied that the leak didnt cause 
Mrs As mothers illness. The letter also says that any damp in the property might well have 
exacerbated her condition  and slowed the recover  process  down. Ive thought  about  
whether this means Lloyds should  have  offered  alternative accommodation. But Im still not 
persuaded it should have.  The medical  reports from the time dont mention the condition of 
the property, so they dont support that the state of the property was having  a significant 
impact on her health. And I think it would need to have affected her health significantly for 
me to say the property was uninhabitable.
Ive also considered that not all of Mrs As property  was affected by the leak;  the upstairs 
was unaffected as were some of the downstairs areas. So whilst I accept it would have been 
inconvenient, I dont think the condition  of the house would meet the definition  of 
uninhabitable in these circumstances. So Lloyds didnt need to offer alternative  
accommodation. 
Ref: DRN62933263Lloyds accepted that some contractors attended Mrs As property without permission, and I 
understand this would have caused  unnecessary distress and inconvenience  for Mrs A. But 
Im satisfied £100 is enough to compensate Mrs A for this. Mrs A has raised concerns about 
contractors not carrying  out proper reports and offering a cash  settlement when she thinks  
they shouldnt  have done. But Im satisfied these issues were addressed by Lloyds when 
they were raised  so I dont think more compensation needs to be awarded for this.
I appreciate this has been a very stressful time for Mrs A but Im not going  to ask Lloyds to 
pay anymore compensation for the issues raised  until the end of March 2018.
my final decision
I understand Lloyds  Bank General Insurance Limited has offered Mrs A £100 compensation 
for her distress  and inconvenience. I conclude thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances so my final decision is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited should 
pay Mrs A £100 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6293326