K821x#15complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the way East West Insurance  Company Limited (EWIC) carried  out 
works under a building  guarantee to the building of which  her flat forms part and the fact that 
it has rejected claims made  in respect  of her flat.
background
EWIC accepted a claim under the guarantee covering the block of flats where  Miss P lives.  It 
carried out repairs to the exterior of the block. After the works were  completed,  Miss P 
complained about the following issues:
1. damage to the insulation behind balcony door panels.
2. the use of her parking space in return for work to her flat which  she said had been agreed  
with Mr L, who worked  for the surveyor supervising  the repairs.
3. cracks around her bedroom  window which she said werent present before the works.
4. a dip in the flooring inside her flat.
EWIC said:
1. Miss Ps claim  for the balcony doors had been  declined on at least  two occasions by 
EWICs predecessor,  who had sought the opinion of more  than one surveyor  in reaching  its 
decision. It thought the issue was a manufacturing  defect  and so not covered by the 
guarantee.
2. Mr L was employed by the factor of the building and not its (EWICs)  suppliers, so Miss P 
should liaise  with the factor about  the use of her parking space.
3. The cracks around the bedroom  window  were of the decorative mastic only, which  in a 
property 10 years old wasnt uncommon.
4. With regard to the dip in her flooring no works  had been  carried out inside her flat and it 
was now too late for her to make a claim for this under the building  guarantee.
As Miss P wasnt  happy with this, she complained  to this service. She also wanted to know 
who was responsible for the actions of Mr L since her factor  had told her Mr L wasnt 
employed by it.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold part of Miss Ps 
complaint. An extract from my provisional decision  is set out below:
Ill deal with each of the issues raised  by Miss P in turn.
balcony doors
According to EWIC Miss P has made two previous claims under the guarantee for her 
balcony door and both claims  were rejected on the ground that the problem had been 
caused by a manufacturing defect  which isnt covered by the policy. I havent  seen  any 
evidence that suggests that the problem with the doors has been caused  or made worse due 
to the building works. Since shes out of time for bringing a new claim  under  her warranty, I 
dont think EWIC has been unreasonable in not accepting liability to repair  the doors under 
the guarantee.
works as consideration for use of car parking space
Ref: DRN63580172As part of the repair works scaffolding was put up on the car parking space of Miss Ps 
neighbour. Ive seen  emails and text messages which  support  Miss Ps complaint  that the 
surveyor agreed to carry out works to her flat in return for her allowing  a neighbour to use 
her parking  space. That in turn enabled  the contractor to put scaffolding  on the neighbours 
parking space.
The messages Ive seen between Miss P, Mr L and the contractor refer to the contractor 
providing some structural support for Miss Ps balcony doors  and packing the gap 
underneath them so that Miss Ps flat wasnt so draughty.  The contractor did some of the 
work they promised but didnt finish it so the doors  are still draughty.
Miss P referred to the car parking space being worth £700 (roughly £10 a week) which 
doesnt sound unreasonable to me for her location.  This doesnt seem to have been  
challenged at the time. So I think whoever is liable for the actions of the surveyor  and the 
contractor should  pay this amount to Miss P.
Miss P has been passed from pillar to post on this issue. EWIC referred  her to the factor.  
The factor said the surveyor was employed  by the loss adjuster and so indirectly by EWIC. 
The claim for the works to the block of flats wasnt cash settled. EWIC arranged for the 
works to be carried out though its suppliers. It has now agreed that it employed the surveyor, 
albeit indirectly. So since its surveyor and contractor didnt keep their side of the bargain with 
Miss P, I think in order  to treat her fairly  EWIC  should pay her £700 for the use of her car 
parking space plus interest from 1 October 2017,  being the date when Miss P said they 
could no longer use her space.
In the course  of carrying out some work to Miss Ps doors, the contractor damaged  the 
boards on her balcony so that shes ended  up with mis-matched boards. I think  in order to 
treat Miss P fairly EWIC should pay to put this right. She says she needs eight new boards 
which with nails and varnish would cost £50 at trade price.  I propose that EWIC  should  pay 
Miss P £100 to cover  the cost of buying  these at retail cost and paying  someone to lay them.
cracks around bedroom window
EWIC has provided evidence showing that Miss Ps bedroom window isnt close to the 
position of the scaffolding  that was put up as part of its repair works. It also showed that the 
window was in a poor state of repair in 2014 before the works were carried  out. Im not 
persuaded its more  likely than not that EWIC  caused the damage to Miss Ps bedroom  
window.
dip in floor
EWIC says Miss P made  an earlier claim under the guarantee  for her flooring which wasnt  
accepted. The guarantee has now expired,  so I dont  think EWIC has acted unreasonably in 
declining this claim.
I note that in the course of this claim Miss P had the stress, disappointment and 
inconvenience of missed appointments, work not being done properly and ultimately 
everyone denying  responsibility for the agreement  with regard  to the car parking space. She 
also suffered from various health  problems during this time. Taking into account  the impact  
EWICs suppliers  failings had on her, I think EWIC should pay her £300 compensation.
Ref: DRN63580173responses to my provisional  decision
Miss P said she was no longer able to repair the balcony herself for health reasons and 
provided a quote  of £303 plus VAT to carry out this work. A copy  of this quote was forwarded 
to EWIC.  It agreed  to pay this and the £300  compensation.
EWIC also said there was nothing to suggest that it or its representatives had agreed to 
carry out works to Miss Ps property  in return for her allowing a neighbour to use her car 
parking space. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that there is nothing in the texts or emails supplied by Miss P which  explicitly says 
that EWIC or its representatives agreed  to carry out works to Miss Ps property in return for 
her allowing  a neighbour to use her car parking space. But emails from December 2016 
show Miss P was keen  to co-operate with EWICs  surveyor regarding  the use of her space.  
Text messages show that EWICs surveyor and contractor  carried out various works at her 
flat in an effort to fix her balcony  doors.  Its clear that EWIC didnt agree to these works  being 
carried out under the building guarantee. So to my mind  this evidence supports Miss Ps 
claim of there being an oral agreement that works would be carried  out at her flat in return 
for the use of her space. Unfortunately for her it appears that the job was more difficult  than 
it first appeared and so it was never properly finished. Since EWICs surveyor and contractor 
didnt keep their side of the bargain, I think its fair that EWIC should pay Miss P for the use 
of her car parking space.
Since EWIC accepted  my other provisional findings, I see no reason to change them. So my 
provisional findings are now those of this my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require East West Insurance  Company Limited  to pay 
Miss P:
£700 for the use of her car parking space plus simple interest* at the rate of 8 per cent 
from 1 October 2017 until the date of payment;
£303 to repair her balcony; 
£60.60 in respect of VAT on the above repair cost subject to East West Insurance  
Company Limited receiving the contractors registered VAT number and evidence that 
VAT has been  incurred;  and
£300 for the trouble  and upset it caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Ref: DRN63580174Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If East West Insurance Company Limited  considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Miss P how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Miss P a certificate  showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6358017