K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs E bought the policy  in 1996 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr E only for disability,  accident, sickness,  and unemployment 
 subject to its exclusions  and limitations.  In the event of a successful claim the policy  
offered to repay  £801.37 a month  made up of a monthly benefit of £561.37  paid directly  to 
the mortgage account and an additional  cash benefit of £3.00 for every £1,000.00 of the 
mortgage, equalling £240.00. At the time,  it cost £40 a month.  
At the time,  Mr E was employed as a care home  manager. He has told us he was entitled to 
between three and six months  full sick pay, redundancy pay and a death in service  benefit. 
Mr and Mrs E have  also told us they had a separate life and accident  and sickness policy 
which wouldve provided assistance should  Mr E be unable to work.  Mr E has said he had a 
medical condition  at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in 2002.
Mr and Mrs Es representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Es representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs E 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Es representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs E about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs E and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN66813162The information Mr and Mrs E received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs E disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN66813163The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs E with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs E, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs E 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs E 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
Ref: DRN66813164did Mr and Mrs E know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The PPI was arranged  during a meeting. Lloyds isnt able to provide any paperwork from the 
time the sale took place  this is unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale
that took place  from so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely.
So Ive considered Mr and Mrs Es comments alongside what we know  in general about how
Lloyds sold PPI at the time to decide  whats more likely to have happened. As the PPI was 
sold as part of a mortgage application its likely  this was a lengthy  process  and there was 
likely to have been a discussion about  Mr and Mrs Es circumstances. Based on
what I know about how Lloyds sold PPI I wouldve expected this discussion with the advisor  
to involve a decision  about the level of cover and to set up the policy. In Mr and Mrs Es 
case, as Mr E was the sole wage earner, the policy covered him only.  I also think  its likely  Mr 
and Mrs E wouldve  had to completed some paperwork at the time, and this is likely to have 
reflected the discussions they had at the time.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs E knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs E agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs E with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs E. It seems Mr and Mrs E cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Es financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr E would have been caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr E had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs E given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs E, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr E met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs E had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Es ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr 
Ref: DRN66813165E not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay and 
redundancy pay Mr E wouldve received from his employer. Mr and Mrs E also 
appear to have had a separate accident  and sickness policy.  The PPI wouldve paid 
out alongside any benefits they wouldve received from this, providing useful 
assistance which would help Mr and Mrs E manage the consequences of Mr E, the 
main wage earner,  being  unable to work.  
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs E. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr E. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Es employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr E has told us about a 
condition he had at the time of sale. However,  based on the condition  and Mr Es 
comments about the treatment and impact  it had on him I still think  the PPI was 
suitable for him. I say this because  it doesnt seem this condition caused him any on-
going issues which resulted in extended  periods of time off work. It seems to have 
been treated effectively at the time. There were also no additional restrictions  on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, accident, sickness  and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover 
given Mr and Mrs Es circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr E be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr Es circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  they might expect  to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs E be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr E was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs E 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
Ref: DRN66813166But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs E agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs E Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs E all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Es. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Es representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs E about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs E have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs E? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
E. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs E suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs E would  have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs E, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs E have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
Ref: DRN66813167properly, Mr and Mrs E would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs E say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs E had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting, is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs E applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs E would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs E would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs E would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Es 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim - an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payments  was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions the policyholder  knew 
about at the start date or for which they had consulted a doctor  about  in the 12 
months before the policy start date. This exclusion only applied to pre-existing 
conditions which recur  within  the first 24 months  after the policy  start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr E 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr E be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
Ref: DRN66813168The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have causes 
Mr and Mrs E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs E from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr E was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr E says he had a medical condition when 
the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt  have  provided cover  had he needed time off 
work because of this condition, I dont think better  information about this exclusion would 
have put him off agreeing  to it. I say this because, as outlined above,  Mr E has told us his 
condition was treated  at the time it occurred. Mr E hasnt told us any ongoing issues he had 
because of this medical  condition  and it doesnt  seem they have affected  his ability to work. 
So, based  on the information  available I dont think she wouldve envisaged that these would 
be the main reason shed need to make a claim. The exclusion also only applied for the first 
24 months of the policy. Hereafter Mr E couldve successfully claimed for any time off work  
related to this health issue.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs E would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs E had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr E was unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view Mr E might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr E was unable (through 
disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs E that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr E would  have received full sick pay and redundancy 
pay. The policy wouldve also started paying  out before the separate accident  and sickness  
policy Mr and Mrs E have  told us about. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs E would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr E be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
Ref: DRN66813169their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Es sick pay or redundancy money for other  use. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely Mr 
and Mrs E would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Es representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs E would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs E found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs E compensation, as that would 
put him in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs E think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs E, in the way it did, 
Ref: DRN668131610was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1996  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Es representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs E and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs E in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2021. 
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6681316