K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained to Sesame Limited  about  a term life assurance  policy  that she took 
out in 2012.  Shes unhappy and says it wasnt explained the policy would not pay out 
anything after the 10 year term of the policy had expired.
background
Mrs W is represented by a family member whos complained  about  two life policies taken out 
in 2012.  The second of those policies has been  dealt with under a different complaint and 
so wont be considered here.
The first policy was taken  out in mid-2012  for a sum assured of £10,000 over a 10-year term.  
The monthly premium was £46.65 per month.   Mrs W discussed the cover and took out the 
policy over the phone,  but it was on a non-advised basis.  
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and recommended that it shouldnt be 
upheld.  He explained that as the policy was non-advised he couldnt consider its suitability, 
but only whether  it was misrepresented.   But having listened to the telephone  calls from the 
time of sale he was satisfied Mrs W was told the benefits which  the cover  provided.
Mrs Ws representative disagreed.  Whilst she acknowledged Mrs W had known  it was a 10-
year policy,  she had concerns that nothing was discussed about what would happen after 
that time.   She queried why, if the premiums had been paid for 10 years, the £10,000 sum 
assured wouldnt  be paid out at the end.
The investigator explained there  was no refund of premiums or other benefit if a claim was 
not made within the 10-year policy term, and so he couldnt say Mrs W was being treated 
unfairly.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for much the same reasons.
I understand that its frustrating for Mrs W if the policy does not provide the level of benefit 
she had anticipated  it would.  But for me to be able to uphold  the complaint, I have to be able 
to say the business did something wrong  but I cant here.   As a non-advised sale,  Mrs W 
was responsible for deciding whether the policy was suitable  for her own needs based upon 
the information provided to her.  
It may help if I clarify the nature of the policy Mrs W took out.  Essentially, life cover is an 
insurance product,  and pays  out an agreed sum assured  if a claim is made  within the period 
of cover.   At the end of that policy term, the benefits  end and the business retains the 
premiums its received in consideration of the risk it had taken  on over the period of cover.
In this case, during the conversation Mrs W had with the business when taking out the 
policy, it was clearly  discussed what the sum assured was and that the term of the policy  
Ref: DRN67692252was 10 years.  There was no discussion about any benefits after that period, because  the 
cover would come to an end and there  would be nothing due to be paid out.
I appreciate the comments made by Mrs Ws representative about wanting cover  to be in 
place for a longer period to guarantee a payment upon death.  It is possible to purchase  life 
cover policies for a longer term, or that guarantee  a fixed  payment upon death.  But usually 
the premiums needed to maintain such cover  are far higher, and in some cases  its possible 
that more money  is paid in premiums over time than the sum assured to be paid out.
I also note that Mrs Ws representative has questioned why at the end of 10 years there 
wont be a payment of £10,000 or a refund of premiums.  As Ive explained, a life cover 
policy is a form of insurance, and not a savings plan.  If Mrs W pays  the monthly  premium  of 
£46.65 for the full 10 years, the total she would have paid would be just over £5,500.   But if a 
claim had been  made at any time within the policy period, the full £10,000 would have  been  
paid out  irrespective of whether it was after one month or at any time up to 10 years.
So whilst I realise itll come as a disappointment  to Mrs W, overall theres no reason for me 
to uphold the complaint.  The policy features were sufficiently explained and set out at the 
time of sale and in the policy documentation, and I cant say the policy doesnt provide any 
benefit.  So having considered everything impartially,  it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for 
me to ask Sesame to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Sesame Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6769225