K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Allianz  Insurance Plc declined her pet insurance claims. My references 
to Allianz include  its agents.
background
Mrs T has had pet insurance for her dog, insured  by Allianz, for several  years  which  she 
renews each year.  The policy  covers a medical  condition for 12 months  or to £3,000 per 
medical condition,  whichever happens first. 
Mrs T made three claims in January  2019  for treatment  for her dogs seizures.
Allianz declined  the claims. The policy covers a medical condition for 12 months  from the 
date of the first clinical sign. Allianz  said the clinical sign of the condition was first seen  in 
November 2017  when Mrs T called the vet for advice  when  her dog had a seizure, so the 
claims were  made after the 12 months  cover ended.
Mrs T complained to us, represented by her husband. She said in November 2017 her vet 
advised her to monitor her dog to see if he had another seizure. He didnt have another 
seizure until April 2018, which  she thought  was another isolated incident,  but he had another 
at the end of 2018 followed by another a few days later. She took her dog to the vet in 
January 2019  and thinks the 12 months  cover should start from then. She wants Allianz  to 
pay the three claims and ongoing claims.
Our investigator thought Allianz had unfairly  declined the claims. She explained why she 
thought it would be reasonable for the 12 months cover to start from April 2018. She 
recommended Allianz pay the three  January 2019  claims.
Allianz disagrees and wants  an ombudsmans decision. In summary it said:  the policy was 
clear about  how it calculated 12 months  cover;  Mrs T could have  taken her dog to the vet in 
November 2017  when the seizure  happened; she should have told it about her dogs 2017 
seizure at the December  2017 and 2018 policy renewals  and if shed done  so it would have 
explained the 12 month cover; she could  have taken her dog to the vet in April 2018 when 
he had another  seizure.
Mrs T accepted our investigators  recommendation. But she noted that her having to 
complain meant Allianz had avoided having to pay for an expensive  MRI scan on her dog as 
she only had cover until April 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint  in part. Ill explain why.
The policy gives cover  for a medical condition for 12 months which the policy defines as 
365 days calculated  from and including the date  the first clinical  signs of an illness were 
noticed. 
Ref: DRN60513062Clinical sign is defined in the policy as a change(s) in your pets  normal healthy state, bodily 
functions or behaviour.
The vet notes from 6 November 2017,  when  Mrs T called  the vet, say her dog:
had a fit yesterday  after a long walk, lasted  a few minutes but came  around ok and 
is fine at the moment,  had a v small fit at beginning of year but generally  healthy, 
o(wner) to record events and see if a pattern, and will arrange bloods etc if any more 
happening or wanting to get it investigated . 
I understand why under  the strict policy terms Allianz said the clinical  signs  of seizures first 
showed in November 2017 as thats when Mrs T first spoke to the vet about  her dogs 
seizure. 
But I have to decide a fair and reasonable outcome. I generally say that with such  policies 
its fair for the 12 months cover for a condition to start when a consumer can first reasonably  
make a claim on their policy. Thats usually when a vet recommends investigation or 
treatment for clinical signs displayed by the pet. Otherwise, a consumer could lose out on 
much or all of the cover provided  by the policy and wouldnt have the benefit of the cover 
theyve paid premiums  for.
Theres no evidence that the vet recommended investigation or treatment for the seizure  in 
November 2017.  Instead the vet advised Mrs T to monitor her dog. Given the vets advice 
I think Mrs T acted reasonably in not pursuing investigation or treatment for her dog at that 
time, her vet didnt advise  that was necessary.
Mrs Ts dog next had a seizure in April 2018 (the exact date isnt clear).  I think April 2018  
should be taken  as when the first clinical sign occurred. Mrs T says that seizure was another 
isolated incident. But the vet notes evidence is that in November  2017  the vet had advised 
Mrs T to monitor her dog and he would arrange blood tests/investigations  if her dog had 
another seizure. I think its more likely than not that if Mrs T had told the vet about  the further 
seizure in April 2018 the vet would have recommended investigations at that time.
Allianz says Mrs T should have told it about  her dogs 2017 seizure at the December 2017 
and 2018 policy renewals and if shed done  so it would have explained the 12 month  cover. 
Even if I thought Mrs T should have told Allianz upon renewal it hasnt said it would apply  
any relevant exclusion  to the policy.  If it had told Mrs T about the 12 months  cover  running 
from November 2017 the issue of whether it could fairly use that date as being  when the first 
clinical sign showed  is still the same.
As I think  it's fair to say the first clinical sign of the condition occurred in April 2018  the 
12 months cover should run from then to April 2019. The three January 2019 claims fall 
within that period  of cover so Allianz must  pay those  claims subject to the policy  limit and 
any excess. If Mrs T has already paid the vet fees for the three claims Allianz  must add 
interest as Ive detailed  below
Mrs T says Allianz has avoided paying  for further  treatment  as her need to complain has 
meant Im making my decision after the date the period of cover  ended in April 2019. But 
I dont think theres any basis for me to fairly say that Allianz needs to pay for further 
treatment beyond April 2019.  Mrs T had a 12 months cover policy  and given what  the policy 
terms say I dont think Allianzs decline was wholly unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN60513063my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part.
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mrs Ts January 2019 claims subject to the policy  limit 
and any excess.  If Mrs T has already paid those vet fees Allianz Insurance  Plc must  pay 
interest at 8% simple  a year from the date Mrs T made the payments to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Allianz Insurance  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs T a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6051306