K822xcomplaint
Mrs T complains Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society  Limited (LV) mis-sold her a Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary contribution pension (FSAVC).
background 
In 1994, Mrs T met with LV to talk about her pension arrangements.  She was 32 and 
working full-time as a teacher. She had opted  out of the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS) 
for around  seven years but had decided to join this again.
Notes from the meeting  suggest Mrs Ts aim was improve what  she would receive in 
retirement. LV recommended she pay £40 per month into an FSAVC. Mrs T kept her 
contributions at £40 until 2017 when she increased  them for a few months  before  retiring  
that same  year due to ill health.
Mrs T recently complained to LV that the FSAVC was mis-sold. She said she shouldve been 
advised to purchase  added  years  in the TPS instead. LV couldnt evidence that it had made 
Mrs T aware  of the option of contributing to the TPS in-house AVC (TAVC). However, it 
thought it was unlikely Mrs T wouldve purchased added years  due to the cost involved. So it 
agreed to pay the difference  in charges between the FSAVC and the TAVC.
Mrs T didnt  agree with LVs offer. She said she wouldve  bought added years  had she been 
advised of the benefits. So she referred  the complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into it. He thought  LVs offer was fair and reasonable. He agreed  that the cost of 
added years in the TPS meant it was unlikely Mrs T wouldve  chosen  that option.  He also 
noted that the amount  she paid into her pension didnt increase until the final few months  
before she took the pension benefits.
Mrs T didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs Ts representative has made  a 
number of points  and arguments  in response to our investigators opinion. I want  to reassure 
him that Ive considered all of them. But I wont be addressing each and every point. Instead 
Ill be focussing on the crux of the complaint. This simply reflects  the informal nature of our 
service.
LV accepts there  is no evidence Mrs T was given enough information about the TAVC and 
its already offered to pay the difference  in charges between the TAVC and the FSAVC she 
took in line with the industry regulators guidance.  
This is to reflect the fact that it considers Mrs T would have opted to join the TAVC scheme 
had she been  made aware of it. So I need to consider whether I think its likely that, had 
Mrs T been given the right information, she would have bought added years  instead of 
contributing to the TAVC scheme. And whether the offer LV has made  is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN69500112Having looked  at all of the evidence  I have, I dont think  Mrs T was completely risk adverse. 
And I cant see that she wouldve wanted  to pay the amount required to buy the maximum 
number of added years she couldve. The evidence from 1994 shows  LVs adviser recorded 
Mrs T as having a cautious  attitude to risk rather than needing  a guarantee of her capital. 
Theres no evidence to say Mrs T couldnt have taken any risk with her contributions  in 1994. 
The monthly amount  Mrs T wouldve paid wouldve  needed to significantly increase in order  
to buy the maximum amount of additional years. Had she been  able to contribute more  at 
the time,  Id question  why she only chose to pay £40 per month into the FSAVC. There 
wouldve been no incentive for the LV adviser  to recommend she contribute less than she 
could or would pay. 
I dont know why Mrs T chose to pay £40 per month. But I think its likely £40 was the 
amount she had budgeted  for and wanted to pay. Ive noted  Mrs Ts point that she had been 
paying more into a previous personal pension. But if she wanted  to carry on with the same 
contribution amount, I think its likely  she wouldve done so into the FSAVC. So it seems 
more likely she wanted to keep her contributions to the amount she did pay to the FSAVC.  
When Mrs T did increase her contributions in 2017, it was on her own using the application 
included with the statement. She wasnt advised. This shows to me she knew how to 
increase her contributions if she wanted and suggests she didnt want to until this time.
Based on what Mrs T did pay, I accept  she could have afforded to buy some  added years 
using the amount she was contributing to the FSAVC. So Ive gone on to consider whether 
its likely  she wouldve  chosen this had she been told about the added years option  and 
directed to the TPS administrator for more information. I cant  know for sure what decision 
Mrs T wouldve made had things gone as they shouldve. So Ive thought  about  what I think  
is more likely. 
At the time of the advice the potential  returns from paying into a money purchase 
arrangement would likely have appeared greater (and the cost cheaper) than the added  
years option.  And unless  Mrs T wanted to take absolutely no risk, it is most likely that she 
wouldve chosen to make contributions into the TAVC. We now know that Mrs T mayve  
been better off buying added years because  investment returns  have been lower  than were 
expected at the time she set up the FSAVC. But this is using the benefit of hindsight. And I 
cant use hindsight when  making my decision  I have to think  about what we knew  at the 
time. So on balance,  I think had Mrs T been  given enough information,  I think  she would 
likely have chosen to contribute to the TAVC  rather than buy added  years.
Ive thought about Mrs Ts argument that although  the cost of added years  wouldve 
increased as her salary  did, this wouldve represented in real terms a lower proportion  of her 
disposable income. However, I can see that Mrs T didnt increase the contributions to the 
FSAVC until just a few months  before  she retired. So I cant  say its likely she wouldve 
chosen an option which meant  the contributions wouldve automatically increased in line with 
her salary.  
Ref: DRN69500113my final decision
My final decision is Liverpool  Victoria Friendly Society Limiteds offer to complete a loss 
assessment in line with the FSAVC review on a charges only basis  is fair. And I dont require  
it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6950011