K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited, a broker,  sent personal  
information about his motor insurance  policy to his work mobile phone.  
background
In May 2018, Mr H used  a price comparison website and took out a motor insurance policy 
and related credit agreement. Hastings administers  the policy.  He says that he opted out of 
marketing and contact  by phone, text and letter; he only wanted  contact by e-mail.  
In June 2018, there was an issue in relation to Mr Hs direct debit and Hastings sent him an 
e-mail, letter and text message about  that. Mr H complained that Hastings sent a text to his 
work mobile  phone. He says that the message appeared on his phone and his colleagues 
saw it. Mr H wants compensation. 
Hastings said that Mr H had opted out of marketing messages but the text it sent was about 
his policy, not marketing. It said although Mr H had requested contact by e-mail, it would 
sometimes use other methods to reach  him. It removed his work mobile phone  number from 
his policy  records. Hastings paid Mr H compensation of £30 in relation  to incorrect  
information it had given him.
Our investigator didnt  think that Hastings had treated  Mr H unfairly in sending  him a text 
message about  his policy to the phone number hed given. He said Hastings said that its 
customers cant specifically ask not to be contacted by phone unless they choose not to 
provide a phone  number.  
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said it wasnt  clear that he was only opting out of 
marketing messages. Mr H said Hastings staff had confirmed that he shouldnt  have been 
contacted by text. He says that he withdrew his permission in relation to his personal data 
and unsubscribed but he still received contact he didnt  want. 
 
Mr H has complained separately about further text messages,  a letter  to the named driver  
and cancellation  of his policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role isnt to decide if Hastings has breached data protection laws. Mr H can contact the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if hes concerned about the way Hastings handled 
his personal information. The link to their website  is https://ico.org.uk/make-a-complaint . 
Its common ground that when Mr H took out the policy he opted out of marketing  from 
Hastings. That doesnt mean that Hastings wouldnt contact him at all. 
Ref: DRN63438312We asked Hastings to show  us what Mr H would have seen before he purchased the policy. 
Hastings asked Mr H what methods it could use to contact him about marketing: e-mail, text, 
post, phone. It also said:  
Please note  if you have a quote or policy with us we may still contact you using  
these channels to give your service messages  
So, Mr H couldnt opt out of all contact from Hastings. He could  change  his preferences  for 
how Hastings contacted him. Hastings doesnt  keep an audit trail of customers  preferences.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr H told Hastings not to contact him about his policy  on 
the phone  number hed provided. 
I dont think Hastings was wrong to contact Mr H by text about problems with the direct  debit.  
Its important that Hastings contact Mr H about  something that may lead to the cancellation 
of his policy. In any event, I dont think that Hastings is responsible for others seeing  the text 
on Mr Hs work phone. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6343831