K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were mis-sold contents and buildings policies  by 
Automobile Association  Insurance Services Limited  (AAIS).
background 
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policies through AAIS in 2014. At that time Mr C says he told AAIS 
that he was having building work done namely  the construction of a garage  with a flat above 
in the grounds  of their property. The recording of this call no longer exists and the building 
work isnt noted  on either policy. But it appears  that AAIS admitted to knowing about this, 
particularly as there was a claim relating  to the building  work  in 2015.
In October  2017 Mr C had a telephone  conversation with AAIS. In it he said that he was 
planning to rent out the flat as a holiday let and enquired about cover  for it. The AAIS 
representative said they would look into it. Mr and Mrs C then had a letter from AAIS  saying 
the policies were to be cancelled.  Mr C rang again to confirm  he was only making an 
enquiry. The policies then continued. Then  at the end of January 2018  Mr C rang to say they 
now planned  to go ahead  with letting the flat. They then received another letter  cancelling 
the policies.
After several telephone  calls AAIS said the buildings policy  would continue until such time as 
Mr and Mrs C let the flat at which point it would be cancelled. But the contents  policy  couldnt  
continue  it had found them an alternative policy which had a condition on requiring  
jewellery to be kept in a safe when  not worn. Mr C rang up at the beginning of March 2018  to 
confirm he wanted  both policies cancelled as they had cover  elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs C referred  their complaint  to this service. They felt that they had been mis-sold 
the policies as the reason  for cancellation wasnt the letting of the property but the fact that 
they had the outbuilding, which they had disclosed to AAIS.
Our investigator said that AAIS  hadnt  explained  the position properly to Mr and Mrs C, had 
failed to call them back and wrongly started cancelling the policies. She thought  that wasnt a 
mis-sale as the buildings insurer had eventually said it would have covered the whole 
property while the flat wasnt let. The contents insurer  wasnt sure. She thought AAIS should 
pay £200 compensation, which it agreed  to.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and the matter was referred to me for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision. Essentially I agreed with the investigators conclusions,  albeit 
for slightly different  reasons.
AAIS accepted my decision.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept my decision. These are Mr Cs main points:
That the evidence  clearly shows that he was mis-sold or the insurance policies were  
misrepresented by AAIS since AAIS sold him insurance cover that could  not be 
realised as when  its own underwriters  were correctly advised by AAIS  (AAIS  advised 
its underwriters  in February 2018) that it had incorrectly reported to them  his homes  
risks, AAISs  underwriters then responded to cancel the insurance.
Ref: DRN66787582AAIS doesnt dispute that Mr C correctly advised it that he was carrying out building  
works to his home during his insurance  with it. Mr C asked  why we dont recognise 
this fact.
AAIS did cancel the insurance, despite what I incorrectly reported. It was only 
reinstated, more  than once, after the AAIS realised  its errors and it needed to buy 
some time and try and sort out its mess. The final cancellation was actioned  after 
AAIS finally advised its underwriters that theyd been wrongly informed of the 
property risks 7 years  earlier and that error  was entirely AAISs fault.
Mr C has never  reported that his policies were being voided (he has no idea what
voided even means).
I can surely  only speculate  whether his insurers  would  have actually  paid out in a 
claim situation given  that insurance cover was being provided on risks that AAISs 
underwriters reported were unacceptable.
It is a real possibility that the inappropriateness of the insurance policies could have 
had catastrophic  consequences for Mr and Mrs C and their family, had their home  
suffered a significant event/loss, especially one that involved  one of the risks that the 
AAISs underwriters reported  were unacceptable  to them.
It is also a fact that Mr C has paid thousands of pounds  to AAIS  for insurance cover 
that was not underwritten  for reasons that were entirely due to errors caused by AAIS. 
Further, he has spent many hours, trying to resolve AAISs  errors.  Therefore, he feels 
unable to conclude  that this can be reasonably addressed by the finding that ..Mr  
and Mrs C were  put to some inconvenience....I think compensation of £200 in the 
circumstances fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
It isnt entirely clear  from the recordings of telephone calls and emails and system notes 
what happened here. Mr C did ring AAIS in October  2017. Mr C was making an enquiry only 
about his outbuilding in the event that he let it out which  he couldnt do at that stage as he 
was waiting for consents from the local authority. AAIS misunderstood  him and started the 
cancellation procedure,  which  I can understand caused Mr and Mrs C some inconvenience. 
The policies werent cancelled at that stage.
When Mr C rang at the end of January  2018  he was more clear that he was planning to let 
the flat. Nevertheless  AAIS didnt discuss with him before starting the cancellation 
procedure. The contents policy  was cancelled but the buildings policy was allowed to remain  
until the flat was let. Mr C cancelled the buildings and the new contents policies himself.
As to whether  the policies  were  mis-sold,  as far as I can see both the buildings and contents 
policies were to be cancelled and not voided  back to their start. This would be the case  if the 
insurers thought  they were  misled into selling a policy because of a failure to disclose 
something when  buying  the policy. There was a suggestion from the buildings insurer that 
Ref: DRN66787583had it known about the building work  it wouldnt have issued a policy. Although its not 
recorded I think AAIS was told about  the building work in 2014.
But the buildings policy was allowed to continue until Mr C cancelled it. This means that if 
any claim arose from 2014 until March 2018  it would still have  been  covered. So even if the 
insurer wouldnt have issued/renewed  the policy due to the existence of the garage/flat 
rather than whether it was let or not, by allowing the policy to continue  Mr and Mrs C werent  
disadvantaged by any mis-sale. So I dont think its appropriate to refund the premiums
As regards  the contents policy, it was cancelled and this was done by AAIS,  it tells us on this 
was done on instruction  from the insurer. The insurer wouldnt agree to its reinstatement. I 
am advised by AAIS that this was because  of Mr and Mrs Cs intention to let the flat. That 
was the insurers  decision and if Mr and Mrs C have any complaint about the policy being 
cancelled because of this they should  take this up with the insurer. I should emphasise that 
the policy was again cancelled, not voided  back to the start. I dont think it appropriate to 
take any action  because the new contents policy arranged by AAIS was more  onerous.
I think Mr and Mrs C were put to some inconvenience by AAIS starting  to cancel the policies 
and not getting back to them. I think compensation of £200 is in the circumstances  fair and 
reasonable.
I can first of all assure Mr and Mrs C that I have considered all the evidence supplied  and I 
have reconsidered  it following  their response. But I dont think the circumstances here were 
as entirely black and white as has been suggested. Ill deal with Mr and Mrs Cs specific 
points below:
mis-sold policies
Mr C is concerned that the policies sold to him werent fit for purpose and that the 
underwriters wouldnt have covered any claim, because of the building  work and the 
separate outbuilding. He maintains that AAIS doesnt dispute that he advised them of the 
building works. As I said in my provisional  decision  (and repeated in the background above) 
it appears that AAIS admitted to knowing about the building  work,  particularly  as there was a 
claim relating to it in 2015.
The point I made  is that in the end, it was, in my view, the fact of the flat being  let out that 
was the deciding point in the underwriters of both the contents  and the buildings  policies 
saying that they would no longer offer insurance.  In the case  of the buildings the policy  
wasnt to be offered at the next renewal  date, and Mr and Mrs C then cancelled the existing 
cover before renewal. In the case of the contents  cover, the policy  was cancelled straight 
away by the insurer.  AAIS ultimately  didnt have  any control  over that process.
voiding or cancelling
As Ive said any cancellation  of the policies wasnt ultimately in AAISs  control.  The 
cancellation process was started  in October  2017 but was stopped before the policies were  
cancelled. As Ive said the contents  policy was cancelled by the underwriters. The 
replacement contents  policy  and the buildings policy  were cancelled  by Mr and Mrs C.
I appreciate that Mr C didnt bring  up the question  of voiding the policies. The point I was 
making is that, if the underwriters had decided that the position had been misrepresented  to 
them, they could  have decided to void the policies back  to the start. They  didnt do so and 
Ref: DRN66787584that in my view is sufficient evidence to say that the policies were  in place until cancellation  
and any claim would most likely have been met (because both had ultimately had the 
opportunity to avoid  cover  but had cohesion  not to do so).
possibility of a claim  not being met
Mr C is right  I cant speculate whether  a claim would  have  been  met. But I cant  make an 
award for something which didnt happen  ie a claim having been  made  but declined. And my 
view is that as both policies were in place  the underwriters should  and would most likely  
have paid any claim.
compensation
In light of my findings that insurance  was in place I dont think it appropriate that the 
premiums be refunded. I understand that Mr and Mrs C were  put to some inconvenience and 
I am mindful  of the number of calls Mr C made to AAIS. But I do think that compensation of 
£200 is appropriate.
I reconfirm my provisional findings  which now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I propose to uphold the complaint and to require Automobile Association  Insurance  Services  
Limited to pay to Mr and Mrs C £200  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6678758