K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about issues hes experienced with a motorbike purchased  with finance from 
Billing Finance  Ltd (BF).
background
In June 2018 Mr B was supplied with a brand new motorbike and entered into a hire 
purchase agreement  with BF.
Mr B experienced issues with the motorbike losing  power and cutting out when changing 
down gears.  He also noticed the clutch was making a noise when it was released after 
changing gear. Mr B had an accident which he says was caused by the engine  cutting  out.
The problem got worse and Mr B contacted  the supplying dealer, who asked  him to take the 
bike in for inspection and repair.
The dealer  was unable to replicate the issues experienced by Mr B but replaced the throttle 
body. Mr B collected the bike but continued  to experience the same  issues.  He returned the 
bike to the dealer and asked to reject  it.
Mr B complained to BF. He says BF was going to refund him but changed its mind  when the 
dealer confirmed it had fixed  the bike. Mr B collected  the bike but it broke  down again.  He 
returned it to the dealer and asked  to reject it again but the dealer said it had fitted a new 
part and that the bike was fixed.
Mr B collected the bike. He says he rode it for two days without any issues but then 
experienced clutch and gear issues. When he told the dealer it said these were  
characteristics of the bike.
In October  2018 an independent inspection was carried out. No faults were found but the 
throttle and chain were  adjusted because they were  loose.
Two days after the inspection Mr B experienced power loss again.  The dealer said it couldnt 
do anything more because no fault had been found.  BF advised  Mr B that he could obtain 
another independent report, pay off the finance  and sell the bike or pay half the finance and 
voluntary terminate the agreement.
Mr B borrowed a go pro camera and recorded  footage of the power loss. He found a 
different garage  who said it could  help. The garage inspected the bike in October 2018 and 
found that an incorrect spark plug had been  fitted and the throttle  cable and battery werent 
connected properly.  Mr B paid for the bike to be repaired and serviced.
After collecting the bike Mr B continued to experienced  power  loss and problems  with the 
gears. Some time later the bike broke down again and he returned  it to the dealer.
Mr B paid off the finance in full and took out a new loan to purchase  a new bike as he 
needed a reliable means of transport to get to work. To resolve his complaint Mr B wants  to 
reject the motorbike, have  his costs refunded and receive compensation for loss of work and 
inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN62073882Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said she didnt think the power  loss had been  
caused by Mr Bs accident  because the bike had been inspected for stalling and failing to 
start approximately  two months  before the accident.  She said the dealer had tried to resolve 
the issue several times but repairs hadnt  been successful. The investigator  said she thought  
it was likely that the motorbike had a fault at the point of supply and that Mr B should be 
allowed to reject the bike.
BF didnt agree. It said that neither  the dealer nor the independent engineer  had identified  a 
fault with the bike. It said the video evidence wasnt dated and didnt  contain  enough detail  to 
identify the bike as that supplied to Mr B. It said the dealer had been unable  to replicate the 
issues and had only replaced parts as a gesture of goodwill. It said the further parts  which 
were being  provided  by the manufacturer were  an attempt to help Mr B to see whether 
replacing various elements of the bike would alleviate  his concerns.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BF has supplied the motorbike under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the price paid, fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  its generally  up to the business to put things  right if a 
fault arises within  the first 6 months, unless it can show that the fault wasnt present or 
developing at the point of supply. The business is allowed one opportunity to fix the fault.  If 
the repair isnt successful the consumer  can reject the vehicle.
Ive read and considered the whole  file but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point  its not because  Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about  it but because I dont  think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach what  I 
think is the right outcome.
Mr B has said he first experienced issues with the bike losing power and cutting out in July 
2018, approximately two months after the point of supply. Mr B had an accident  on the bike 
which he says was caused by the engine cutting out. The dealer inspected the bike and said 
it found no fault, but despite this, it replaced the throttle body.
BF has said it thinks the issue with the engine cutting out was caused  by Mr Bs accident. I 
dont think this is likely and Ill explain why.
Mr B has been very consistent in his testimony  that it was the engine  cutting out which 
caused him to have  the accident.  He says this has happened on more  than one occasion.  As 
well as this, I havent  seen anything from the dealer  which suggests that it was necessary to 
replace the throttle body as a result of damage sustained in an accident.  I dont  think  the 
dealer would replace the throttle body on a brand new motorbike for no reason.  I think its 
more likely that the dealer was trying to resolve the issue with the engine  cutting out when it 
replaced the throttle body. In my view this amounts  to an attempt at repair.
Ive also taken into account the issues which Mr B experienced with the bike stalling and 
failing to re-start in June  2018. Although this isnt exactly the same issue as loss of power 
Ref: DRN62073883and the engine cutting out, its a similar issue. BF has said the issue in June 2018 was 
caused by driver error but theres  no evidence to support this. The job card says that the 
battery was discharged from continuous  cranking after flooding  from being  stalled in traffic. 
Essentially this means that the bike stalled from turning over the engine  too much. This 
could either  be caused  by a  fault or by driver error but given whats  happened since  I think  
its more likely to be a fault and less likely to be due to Mr Bs driving style.
On balance I dont  think the loss of power  and engine  cutting out was as a result  of Mr Bs 
accident. I think its more  likely that this was an issue which  was present or developing at the 
point of supply.
I can see that the issue re-occurred after the garage  had replaced  the throttle body. Despite 
no faults being found, the issues continued and the garage made  further attempts to resolve 
them. I dont think the garage wouldve continued  to try and resolve  the issues  if it didnt 
think there was a fault, even though it was unable to diagnose exactly  what  was wrong.  I can 
see that the garage made several  attempts at repair, none  of which were successful.
Ive considered the independent inspection report.  This shows that the bike was tested  for 11 
kilometres at speeds of up to 50 mph. I dont think the bike was tested over a sufficient 
distance. The report itself notes that Mr B experienced loss of power after riding for 20 miles 
at speeds of approximately 70 mph. The independent engineer  didnt test the bike over this 
distance or at this speed. Because of this, Im not persuaded that the independent  inspection  
is reliable, because it didnt test the bike under the same conditions that Mr B experienced 
the issues.
Ive looked at the video  evidence provided  by Mr B. This shows  Mr B using his right hand to 
turn the throttle and trying  to accelerate. It appears that the bike is losing power and that he 
has to try and re-start  it all the time.  Ive taken into account the comments made by BF about 
the video evidence but Im satisfied that the footage shows Mr Bs bike. Its very unlikely  that 
Mr B would have another bike with exactly the same fault.
I understand that more recently the manufacturer has offered  to provide various parts  to try 
and resolve the issue. This suggests  to me that the manufacturer has recognised that there  
is a fault. I dont think it would provide expensive parts  for no reason, or as an attempt to 
simply reassure  Mr B.
On balance, and taking all of the evidence  into account, Im of the view that theres  a fault 
with Mr Bs bike which was likely  to have been  present  or developing  at the point  of supply. 
Because the fault arose within the first six months  its up to the business to put things right. A 
repair has been attempted  by replacing  the throttle body (as well as other attempts at repair)  
but this has been unsuccessful.  Based on this I dont think the bike was of satisfactory 
quality and Mr B should be allowed to reject  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Billing Finance Ltd must:
Arrange for the bike to be collected  at no cost to Mr B.
Refund Mr Bs deposit together with 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund Mr B the cost of repairs and taxi fares of £208.60
Refund Mr B the sum of £1922.07 that he paid to settle the agreement  together with 
8 % simple interest  per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Ref: DRN62073884Pay compensation of £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6207388