K820x#14complaint
Miss A says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss A bought  the policy  in April 2003  sometime after taking out a mortgage. She applied for 
the PPI policy  in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Miss A for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £167.30  a month towards  Miss As 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim as well as a further  £3 for every £1,000 
of the initial  mortgage. At the time, it cost £10 a month. 
At the time,  Miss A was employed  as a Accounts Assistant. She has told us she was entitled  
to three  months worth of sick pay and had savings she could use to make her mortgage 
payments if she couldnt work and was entitled  to redundancy pay. Miss S has said she 
suffered from neck pain in 1980 but this didnt require any treatment  or lead to her having 
any time off work. Miss A has not said whether this neck pain was ongoing or whether it 
caused her any further problems. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed at the end of 
2003.
Miss As representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss As representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss A wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss As 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Miss A about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss A and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN67244402The information Miss A received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss As. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN67244403The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss As 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Miss A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Miss A sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss A, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss A suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN67244404Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss A and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss A know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Because Miss A took out the policy a number of years after the mortgage  was agreed and 
had been in place I think she wouldve understood she didnt have to buy the policy to have 
the mortgage. And I think Miss A chose to buy the policy because  I can see she went on to 
complete and sign a separate  application form and direct debit mandate  for it. If she didnt 
want the cover I dont think she wouldve completed an application for it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss A knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds say that advice was provided  during this sale so I am going to treat the sale as 
advised as this puts Miss A in the best position.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Miss A with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss A. It seems Miss A cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about 
Miss As financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  evidence  to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Miss A would have  been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Miss A had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss A given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss A, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss A met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Miss A had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Miss As ability  to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Miss A was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy, sick pay 
benefits and savings she says she would have  been entitled  to.
Ref: DRN67244405-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss A.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss A. There  
was nothing about Miss As employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim. And regarding  the medical condition  Miss A has told us about 
(neck pain in 1980),  this condition doesnt  appear to be ongoing or in existence at the 
time of sale. There were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or 
back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Miss As 
circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful employment condition, the requirement  that Miss A be disabled or 
unemployed for 60 days before  she could  make a claim  and the fact the policy would  
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Miss As circumstances, including her employers  sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Miss A be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Miss A sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss A was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss A was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss A would have taken  out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss A agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss A Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Miss A all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN67244406Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss As representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss As. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss As representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss A about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss A has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Miss A? To what extent  did Miss A 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss A. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss A 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss A 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss A, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss A has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Miss A would have  acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any 
event.
Miss A says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN67244407return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss A had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss As circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss A knew  she would  have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told her the exact  premium  at the point 
Miss A applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Miss A would have been  told 
the cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible she 
might have raised that with Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss A would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Miss A would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Miss As 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than she would have  expected as there  was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss A thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions Miss A had before the 
policy started if the condition itself reoccurred  during the first 24 months of the policy  
being in force. 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss A 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss A be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience reasonably  
qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss A pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss A from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Miss As circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss A was eligible for its benefits and it 
Ref: DRN67244408provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Miss A wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss A didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss A would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Miss A had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful employment which in the insurers  view she might  reasonably  
become qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what  she would  have done.  
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although its possible she may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Miss A was unable (through  disability)  to carry on 
her own occupation  the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation 
would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Miss A that any claim she made would be limited to a 12 month  
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. But 12 
months was a longer period than Miss A would have received full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss A would still have thought a policy that paid 
up to 12 monthly loan repayments  would have been  of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Miss A be unable to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss A would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Miss A was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss A 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss As representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss A would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN67244409Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss A 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss A in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Miss A compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss A thinks Lloyds  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Miss A, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss As representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss A and about the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss A in a better position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
Ref: DRN672444010Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6724440