K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains about issues  shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Close Brothers Limited.
background
In February 2018  Miss F was supplied with a second hand car and entered  into a conditional 
sale agreement with Close Brothers.  The purchase  price of the car was £4,995 and at the 
point of sale it was approximately  8 years old and had covered approximately 98,000 miles.
Shortly after purchasing  the car Miss F experienced issues with the diesel particulate filter 
(DPF) and had to have  the car recovered. She complained to both the dealership and Close  
Brothers.
The supplying dealer provided  Miss F with a  new DPF and sensor which  she arranged to 
have fitted by an independent garage  in or around July 2018.
In September  2018 Miss F experienced further  issues with the car and again had to have it 
recovered. An issue with the camshaft pulley was identified. Miss F complained  to Close 
Brothers again.
Close Brothers asked Miss F to provide evidence that the fault with the car was present  at 
the point of supply. Before  Miss F managed to do this she experienced further  issues with 
the car in December  2018 relating to the EGR  valve.
Miss F obtained a report from an independent  garage in January 2019 which identified faults 
with the ABS sensor,  tyre pressure sensor and DPF sensor. The garage told Miss F it was 
safe to drive the car but Miss F says it broke  down  again in March  2019.
In April 2019 Miss F took the car to be serviced.  Repairs were  carried  out (including repairs 
to some of the faults mentioned above). The garage also listed some advisories including  a 
leaking exhaust and turbo gasket, leaking injectors,  leaking gearbox and TPMS light on 
dashboard. No repairs  were carried out to the advisories.
Shortly after the service  Miss F had to have the car recovered again. The recovery company 
identified a leaking injector seal and missing auxiliary belt. It also noted  a heavy knocking 
noise from the engine and a smoking exhaust.
Miss F complained to Close Brothers again. Close Brothers said the car had covered 
approximately 30,000 miles since the point  of supply and said that because more than 6 
months had passed  since  the point of supply it was up to Miss F to show  that the faults were  
present at the point of supply.
Miss F obtained a report from an independent  engineer. The report  said the faults were 
linked to the leaking injectors and turbo  seals. It also identified  fault codes  relating to the 
DPF. The report was inconclusive as to the exact cause of the faults and said further 
investigation was required which  would require stripping down the engine.  Miss F couldnt  
afford to pay for this.
In its final response Close  Brothers  said the report didnt show  that the faults were present at 
the point of supply.
Ref: DRN68605792Miss F was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.  She wants to reject  
the car and have  a refund  of all her payments, as well as reimbursement for the repair  costs.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said there wasnt  enough evidence to show  
that the faults were present at the point of supply.
Miss F didnt agree. She said shed  contacted  the supplying dealer  as soon as she 
experienced issues with the car and she believed the car was faulty when it was sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement  theres  an 
implied term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply due to an inherent defect  rather  than general wear  and tear.
Miss F and Close Brothers  disagree about whether  the car had a fault at the point of supply.  
So in order to reach a decision I need to look at all of the available  evidence  and determine,  
on the balance  of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory quality  at the point  
of supply.
Miss F says she experienced issues with the DPF in the first 2 weeks. Close  Brothers 
arranged for a new DPF to be provided  to Miss F and the car was repaired in July 2018.
In December 2018 the fault codes showed a problem with the DPF again. From the 
information available,  Im unable to tell whether the DPF was repaired again at this time. The 
car had covered approximately  13,000 miles between  April 2018 (when the DPF issues was 
first reported) and December 2018 (when  the DPF issue was reported  a second time). 
A number  of other  issues have been identified  with the car. These  issues  whilst clearly  
affecting the overall performance of the car  have arisen outside of the first 6 months  and 
there isnt any evidence to link them to the issue with the DPF. 
An engineers report can help in determining whether or not a fault was present at the point  
of supply. In this case, an independent inspection of the car concluded  that it wasnt  possible 
to diagnose the exact fault without further investigation but that there was evidence  that the 
fuel injectors had been  leaking for a long time. The engineer noted the DPF fault codes but 
wasnt able to say whether  these were related to the other  issues.  The engineer said that 
although the issues were likely to have developed over time, he wasnt able to say that the 
issues were present at the point of supply.
Ive considered the report together  with what Miss F has said.  Ive also taken into account  
the fact that this is a second hand car of significant age and mileage at the point of supply. 
The mileage  covered since the point  of supply has also been significant.
Ref: DRN68605793I appreciate that Miss F feels that the car has been faulty from the outset. I dont disagree 
that shes had a number of issues with the car. I can see that the issue with the DPF first 
presented itself within 2 weeks  of the point of supply.  However,  the DPF was repaired (which  
is what I would expect  Close Brothers  to do) and the car covered 13,000 miles before the 
DPF issue arose again. If the DPF repair hadnt been successful I would have expected the 
DPF issue to arise  the second time much  sooner  than it did, taking into account the mileage  
the car was covering. Taking this into account, I think its more likely that the issues  with the 
DPF in December 2018 werent  related  to the issues with the DPF in April 2018. Its quite 
common for drivers  to experience issues with the DPF when the types of journeys 
undertaken dont  permit  the engine to reach  optimum operating temperature  and regenerate 
properly.
The engineers report doesnt link the DPF to any of the other  issues  reported by Miss F. And 
crucially, the report doesnt conclude that the faults  with the car were present at the point of 
supply.
I appreciate that Miss F is disappointed  at the number of issues  which shes  had with the 
car. But its an old car with significant  mileage and I would expect problems to occur  as a 
result of wear and tear. I dont think theres  enough  evidence to link the issues to the DPF 
(which was the only issue which arose soon after the point of supply). Nor is there any 
evidence that any of the faults were present at the point of supply. 
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to conclude that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at 
the point of supply, so I wont be asking  Close Brothers to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6860579