K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs V says Barclays Bank Plc (trading  as Egg)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs V applied for her PPI policy through an online application at the same time as she 
applied for her card. Egg hasnt been  able to show us Mrs Vs completed  online application,  
so Ive considered  what we know  more  widely about how it sold PPI online around  this time. 
Ive seen screenshots that are likely to be similar  to what Mrs V saw at the time of sale, and 
these show an option to accept or decline PPI. So I think its likely that Egg gave 
Mrs V the option to either  accept  or decline the cover before continuing with her credit card 
application. Egg has also given us a copy of the data that was captured  from Mrs Vs 
application, I can see that the yes box has been  selected to confirm  she wanted the PPI.
So I think Egg made it clear that the PPI was optional and that Mrs V chose to take the 
policy. Considering  how long ago the sale took place I think its understandable she cant  
remember doing so now.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs V so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs V got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs V about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mrs V has told us she was entitled  to sick pay at the time she took the policy  and had 
other means  of making her repayments. She hasnt  given  further  details about this. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs V would have received and paid in 
addition to her other means also.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Vs circumstances at the time she wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs V.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs V because:  
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mrs V about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mrs V, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN60957232The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs V.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs V any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs V to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6095723