K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Lowell Financial Ltd incorrectly recorded  another persons insolvency 
information against her account. She also thinks her data was breached. 
background
Mrs C found out that shed been  incorrectly recorded as insolvent on her account. Lowell 
identified how the error  occurred  and took steps to correct her information. Mrs C was 
unhappy so she complained to Lowell. 
Lowell apologised  for the error and paid Mrs C £150  compensation. It also reduced the 
amount Mrs C owed on the account to zero (from  £109.50). Mrs C remained unhappy so she 
brought her complaint  to this service for an impartial review. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he thought Lowell had done enough to fairly 
resolve the complaint. Mrs C disagreed  and asked for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for similar reasons as the investigator. I know Mrs C will be disappointed so Ill 
explain why. 
I think its worth explaining that my role isnt to punish  or fine a business. My role involves 
considering the impact  of a businesss error and whether it has done enough to put a 
customer back in the position theyd been  in had the error not occurred.
Understandably, the error here has caused  Mrs C stress and anxiety. But I think the steps 
Lowell has taken to put things right is fair. 
Lowell appears  to have amended the error  (which the Information Commissioners Office 
confirmed was due to it not complying with its data protection obligations)  to reflect  Mrs Cs 
details correctly. It has also apologised  and effectively given her £260 compensation, which 
is within the region  of what I wouldve  awarded  anyway. 
It is my understanding that the error  didnt impact  Mrs Cs financial circumstances and 
nothing was recorded against  her in her credit  file. And I havent seen enough to persuade 
me that Mrs Cs data was shared with anyone  in error. And whilst I appreciate Mrs C would 
have found this matter stressful  (given that it doesnt appear to be an isolated incident), I can 
only award compensation for the distress and inconvenience Lowell caused. In respect of 
that, I note that Lowell realised the error immediately it became apparent and then took 
steps to minimise the impact of it on Mrs C.
So I think Mrs Cs complaint has been  resolved fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN65887252Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6588725