K821x#15complaint
Miss D and Mr P have complained that National  House-Building Council (NHBC)  carried  out 
poor repairs to the render  on their property when settling a previous claim.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2019.  I explained  that I was 
intending to uphold Miss D and Mr Ps complaint in part. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
Miss D and Mr P bought  a new build property in 2007 which was covered by a NHBC 
Buildmark policy for 10 years. In 2015 Miss D and Mr P raised  issues with the 
rendering and NHBC had this replaced in August 2016. But Miss D and Mr P werent  
happy with the repair. NHBC thought the issues  were cosmetic but paid £750 to 
recognise delays  and disruption.
In 2017 Miss D and Mr P sent NHBC a surveyors report which identified three main 
issues and what was needed to put them right  a complete re-render. The issues  
were;
inconsistent thickness  of the render  creating a weakness and potential  for 
water ingress
poor quality finishing  at the interface  between  different materials  creating a 
potential for water  ingress
cracking/crazing at the smooth window reveals
NHBC disagreed. Its expert said the issues were cosmetic and wouldnt affect  the 
performance of the render. He said the remedial works should be;
inconsistencies in thickness of render  seal with polysulphide mastic bead
finishing at different interfaces  tidying up the junctions and cleaning  down 
the ventilation  strips
cracking/crazing  reveals rubbed  down and painted with suitable  masonry 
paint
He also commented  on some internal cracking at the property, saying it was down to 
normal shrinkage/movement  and not covered by the policy.
Miss D and Mr Ps surveyor commented  on this report. He said the inconsistencies  in 
the render thickness were  at critical locations,  and were further  exacerbated by the 
poor finishing at different  material  interfaces.  He said these junctions should be 
sealed with mastic sealant. He also said the cracking and crazing wasnt minor and 
he suspected  the wrong  type of render had been  used  for the reveals.
NHBC said it was prepared  to settle  the claim in line with the recommendations of its 
expert. It accepted that painting the window reveals would create  a maintenance 
issue, so it offered to cover the cost of repainting the window reveals once after a 
period of 10 years.
Ref: DRN65016742 
Miss D and Mr P werent happy with NHBCs proposed  resolution.  They  brought their 
complaint to our service where it was looked  at by one of our investigators. Our 
investigator thought;
applying the mastic  sealant was an appropriate  resolution for the issues  with 
the consistency of the render
tidying up the junctions wasnt enough,  NHBC should apply mastic sealant at 
all junctions in line with Miss D and Mr Ps report
he hadnt seen  evidence that painting  the reveals with masonry  paint  wouldnt  
resolve the issue, so he thought it was a suitable  resolution
the internal  damage was most likely  caused by normal shrinkage and so 
wasnt covered under  their policy  
He also addressed some other issues raised by Miss D and Mr P. These  were:
discolouration at the gable  end of their property 
a telephone wire that had been  improperly imbedded in the render
damage to some  lead flashing 
the cost of their second survey 
the level of compensation 
NHBC didnt agree that our service could  consider  the compensation award as it was 
made more  than six months  before the complaint was brought to us. It said it would  
accept the recommendation regarding the finishing at different interfaces, but it 
couldnt guarantee the quality of the finishing. It asked that Miss D and Mr P accept 
this before it carried out any work  or said it would calculate a cash settlement so they 
could employ their own contractor.
No agreement on how the complaint should be settled has been reached, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
partially uphold  it. Ill explain why in more detail  below.
NHBC produces a set of technical requirements which  builders should follow when 
building a property.  Theyre not necessarily the same as building  regulations.  The 
Buildmark Policy provides  cover where it can be shown the quality of the work 
amounts to a breach of NHBCs own technical requirements.
Miss D and Mr Ps policy states that NHBC will put right (or meet the cost of putting  
right) any damage caused  by a defect. The policy defines damage  as physical 
damage to the home caused  by a defect. And it defines defect as[a] breach of any 
mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder  or anyone employed by him or acting 
for him.  
This means  I need  to consider whether or not a requirement exists   in the NHBC 
technical requirements  for the type of claim being made. If one does, I can then 
Ref: DRN65016743consider whether it has been breached. If there has been no breach,  there  is no 
"defect" and so there is no cover.
Since the complaint has been  with me, NHBC has realised the correct technical  
requirements that apply  are from 2004   when  the property was registered for 
construction  and not 2016  as it previously said. So its these requirements Ive 
considered when reaching  my provisional findings.
Miss D and Mr P and NHBC have both had reports completed. And both have  
commented on whether  the work  amounts to a defect. In each of the reports  and in 
our investigators assessment, the issues outstanding have been broken down into 
items and addressed separately. For ease of reference Ill do the same.
inconsistencies in the thickness of the render
From what  Ive seen all parties are in agreement that there are inconsistencies in the 
thickness of the render, and that this could cause  a risk of water  ingress.  What  
remains in dispute  is what should be done  to put it right.
The independent report says that the inconsistencies amount to an inherent  defect.  
But Miss D and Mr Ps policy states  that, Failure to follow guidance supporting the 
NHBC Requirements does not in itself amount to a Defect, as there  may be other 
ways that the required  performance can be achieved.
Both experts  seem to agree that application  of the sealant will prevent water ingress. 
So I think applying the mastic sealant  is a suitable  resolution for this issue as it will 
result in the required performance  being achieved.
Ive thought about the fact that applying the mastic  sealant will create a maintenance 
issue. According to the technical data sheets for several brands of polysulphide 
based sealants, they have  a life expectancy of around 15 to 20 years. The life 
expectancy of the render  used on Miss D and Mr Ps property  is 30 years.  So, I think 
NHBC should calculate the cost of reapplying the sealant once,  and pay this amount 
to Miss D and Mr P. 
Ive also considered Miss D and Mr Ps point that this repair could  affect the resale 
value of their house. But NHBCs obligation under the policy is to deliver an effective 
and lasting repair, and I think  the above  resolution will deliver  this. Also the terms and 
conditions of the policy contain  a specific exclusion for any loss or reduction  in value 
of the property. So any loss in value  isnt covered by their policy.
finishing at interfaces of different materials
Both sides seem to agree with sealing the junctions,  with suitable sealant, as a 
suitable remedy for this issue. But NHBC has concerns about the quality of the finish.
Ref: DRN65016744Miss D and Mr P have raised several concerns about the aesthetic appearance of 
some of the work and the resale value of their property being  affected. But their 
policy states that damage which  is purely  cosmetic and which  doesnt impair  the 
structural stability or weather tightness  of the property  isnt covered. The inspectors 
report indicates that applying sealant at all junctions will address the weather 
tightness. So I think this is suitable remedy that is in line with the terms of the policy.  
NHBC must  though cover the cost of reapplying the sealant once, in line with what 
Ive said above.
cracking/crazing at smooth render reveals
NHBCs technical standards  2004 (Chapter 6.1 (d)  cracking and crazing) explain 
that render should be free from significant cracking and crazing. This guidance 
doesnt specifically  define significant. But later versions of the guidelines allow for a 
tolerance of 0.2mm. Several of the crazing  lines on Miss D and Mr Ps property are 
bordering on this allowable tolerance and NHBC has agreed  that some  remedial 
work is required at these locations.
The independent inspector has said that the wrong  material was used for the window 
reveals. He said that instead of using the correct product for smooth render finish,  the 
contractor used the receiver coat for the dry dash render used on the main walls. He 
said this compromises the durability  of the finish and is what  has led to the 
widespread cracking.
However, as part of his report the inspector contacted a technical representative from 
the render manufacturer. They advised that the render could be used in this way, 
provided it was painted with a suitable masonry paint  which  is what  NHBC is 
suggesting it will do to address the issues.
Taking into account the render manufacturers  expert view, I havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest that  other  than creating  a maintenance issue   the masonry  
paint wont provide an effective and lasting  repair. 
NHBC has conceded that this will result in a maintenance issue,  and has offered to 
cover the cost of repainting the reveals after a period of 10 years,  which is the life 
expectancy of the paint. But as mentioned, the life expectancy of the render is 30 
years. So I dont think paying for one reapplication is enough to deliver a lasting 
repair. I think it would be fair for NHBC to pay the cost of two reapplications of the 
masonry paint.
lead flashing
The independent report highlighted  that an area of lead flashing on the right hand 
side of the pitched roof above  the front door was damaged. It said the flashing 
wouldve needed to be removed for the re-rendering to take place, so it was likely 
damaged by NHBCs contractors.
NHBC has said the flashing wouldnt have been touched by the contractors as part of 
the re-render.  It has also provided photos from before the re-render took place,  and 
pointed to a large  dark patch in the area where  damage has been  reported. It says 
this indicates the damage  was there before   so it doesnt accept responsibility for 
this damage.
Ref: DRN65016745Our investigator considered this issue. He said he hadnt seen  any evidence that the 
damage was caused by NHBCs contractors. He said hed be prepared  to reconsider 
this if Miss D and Mr P provided further evidence,  such as more  photos.  
Miss D and Mr P have provided  some more photos  for me to consider. But I still cant  
make out the damage referred  to in the inspectors  report. The photos NHBC has 
provided from 2015 are of a poor resolution  so I dont think I can rely on them to say 
whether the area theyre referring to is the same area referred to in the report.
Ive made  several  attempts to contact the inspector  Miss D and Mr P instructed, to 
discuss his thoughts on this issue. But unfortunately I havent  been able to reach him. 
In order for me to consider finding that NHBC are responsible for correcting any 
damage to the flashing, Ill need the inspector to provide a photo  of the pitched roof 
with the damage  circled.  And for him to provide some  explanation of why he believes 
the flashing wouldve had to be removed  in order for the render  to be applied,  as this 
directly contradicts what NHBC says.
discolouration at gable  end
Miss D and Mr P have complained that there  is significant discolouration of the 
render at the gable end of their property.  NHBC sent a claims investigator to assess  
the damage. It has provided three photographs of the discolouration and said,  The 
staining on the garage gable appears to be coming from the brickwork. The third 
photograph shows  stains  on the main house right hand gable which appear to be 
coinciding with the main roof trim joints above. All these issues are cosmetic and do 
not affect the performance of the render.
From what  Ive seen, neither the NHBC technical  guidance or Miss D and Mr Ps 
policy contain a provision for discolouration of render. And neither of the expert 
reports has said that the discolouration is an indication that the render is not 
performing. It follows that I dont  think this amounts to a defect as described in the 
policy. So I dont think NHBC needs  to do anything about this issue.
telephone wire
Miss D and Mr Ps phone wire had been imbedded in the render. NHBC carried  out a 
repair, but Miss D and Mr P werent  happy  because the same type of render wasnt 
used. NHBC has offered to apply  a topcoat  to the work, but Miss D and Mr P dont 
want any further work carried out until Ive finished  my decision on their complaint. 
I appreciate Miss D and Mr P mightve been expecting a different material  to be used. 
But if the repair addresses the potential  weakness  identified by the report, then I think 
it no longer amounts to a defect, as described in the policy. And Im satisfied that the 
remedial work here will, on balance, provide  a lasting and effective repair.
When this repair was carried  out, the contractors  caused some damage to Miss D 
and Mr Ps flowerbed. Theyve  said NHBC has offered to pay them  £250 to recognise 
this, but they feel £500 is more appropriate.
Ref: DRN65016746Ive seen a photograph of the damaged flowerbed. It doesnt appear that the 
contractors took much  care, and its clear  that they caused some  damage.  However, 
it looks like quite a small flowerbed and it doesnt  look like there was a great deal of 
plants or flowers in it. So overall I think NHBCs offer of £250  is fair to cover  the 
damage caused.
drying time and undercoat
Miss D and Mr Ps inspection report says that the brand  of render used on their 
property required 48 hours drying time between application of the basecoat and 
primer. The report said it was understood this amount of time wasnt  given. It said it 
was difficult to know exactly  what the implications of this would be, but the inspector 
felt that it was a departure  from the approved application and as such  the application 
was compromised.
Miss D and Mr P have also said that the relevant certification to the type of render 
used states that a particular type of primer needed  to be used. They say it wasnt  and 
they would  like NHBC to prove  that it was.
NHBC has said that any manufacturers guidance  is only guidance. It says it has 
inspected the render on several  occasions  and it is performing. So it doesnt agree 
that there  has been a breach of the NHBC technical requirements.
As mentioned above, Miss D and Mr Ps policy states that, Failure to follow guidance 
supporting the NHBC Requirements  does not in itself amount to a Defect, as there 
may be other ways  that the required  performance  can be achieved.
The inspection report didnt highlight that these apparent departures from the 
manufacturers guidelines have caused any weakness or damage,  and neither  of the 
reports have suggested that the render isnt performing as it should  do. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I think the render is performing, and has provided  a lasting and 
effective repair. So I dont  think  NHBC needs  to do anything more to address this 
issue. 
cracking inside  the property
Miss D and Mr P have also highlighted areas of cracking inside their property, which  
they say were not there prior to the re-render. NHBCs report  said this damage  was 
caused by normal  shrinkage movement, and so is not the result of a defect.
The policy states  that damage caused by shrinkage,  thermal movement or movement 
between different types of material are not covered. And from what  Ive seen, the 
independent inspector didnt comment on this damage. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think its most likely the cracks have been caused  by 
normal shrinkage/movement. So I dont think NHBC is responsible  for correcting  any 
of the internal cracking. 
Ref: DRN65016747independent survey and compensation
NHBC reimbursed  Miss D and Mr P the cost of their first expert report  because  it 
accepted that further remedial work was required. Our investigator recommended  
that NHBC should also refund them the cost of the second report,  which amounted  to 
£570. 
NHBC said that Miss D and Mr P didnt request reimbursement of the second survey 
until after it provided its last final response  in October  2017.  But it confirmed that it 
would reconsider the second survey if its position  changed following the review from 
our service.
Our investigator recommended that some remedial work was required to the finishing 
at interfaces of different  materials,  based  in part on Miss D and Mr Ps surveyors 
response. NHBC accepted that it would  do the work. It follows that I think NHBCs 
position changed following the second report and as such, it should reimburse the 
£570 Miss D and Mr P paid the surveyor.
Our investigator recommended that NHBC increase  the compensation offered in its 
final response letter from £750 to £1500. In response,  NHBC said it made the 
gesture over six months  before Miss D and Mr P brought their complaint  to our 
service  so it didnt agree that we have the authority to consider it.
Ive discussed  this with NHBC and clarified that our investigator wasnt  
recommending further compensation  for the period  its final response letter appears to 
address. Our investigator felt that delays between Miss D and Mr P raising the claim 
in 2015 and the work commencing in 2016 hadnt  been covered in that final 
response. NHBC agreed that this period  wasnt addressed in its final response.
It does appear that there were some  unnecessary  delays prior to the re-render work 
commencing. The claim was made  in 2015,  but NHBC doesnt seem  to have had the 
damage inspected  for several months. And after accepting that work needed doing, 
remedial work didnt commence for almost a year. I agree  with our investigator that 
these delays are significant  and wouldve caused  Miss D and Mr P understandable 
distress. So I think NHBC should pay a further  £750  for the delays not covered in its 
initial offer.
Since NHBC  made the offer of £750  Miss D and Mr Ps complaint has continued for 
almost two years. During this time, its contractors have attended the property without 
permission and caused damage  to some of the property  for example damage to 
their garden gate and the flowerbed  near the telephone wire. 
NHBC has already paid £100  to fix the gate,  and has offered £250 for the damage  to 
the flowerbed  which I think  is fair. But I dont think the fact that NHBC has paid to 
correct the errors means it has done enough  to address the understandable 
frustration these issues, or the amount  of time that their complaint has been  ongoing, 
will have caused. To recognise  the trouble and upset Miss D and Mr P have 
continued to be caused, I think NHBC should  pay them a further £500.
I asked everyone to send  me any further evidence  or arguments  they wanted  me to consider 
before I reached my final decision.
Ref: DRN65016748Miss D and Mr P didnt agree with my provisional decision. They provided several comments  
for me to consider  before  I reach my final decision. To summarise,  these were:
they never received the £750  payment from NHBC in recognition of delays and 
disruption  which  I said they had done  in my provisional decision
they dont  accept painting the reveals  will repair the damage  as it wont fix the fact 
that they are boss   the render is not sticking to the wall correctly
NHBC previously  agreed to redo the window reveals  but then appointed a new 
surveyor
Ive incorrectly relied  on later technical  guidance  on the size of cracks/crazing  in my 
provisional decision
a neighbour  of theirs is getting  all of their reveals redone  theyd like me to comment  
on this
if NHBC dont  repair  their window reveals  theyll put in a claim under the six year 
guarantee they have with the re-rendering
they wont accept  mastic sealant  as a remedy to the other issues as it discolours  in 
the sun and becomes  brittle and unsightly
its important for them to know whether primer was used on their property  if NHBC 
are confident it makes  no difference  to the performance why cant  it say whether it 
was or wasnt used
they didnt  have stains or discolouration before  the re-render
the repairs to the telephone wire was a botch job that was then covered up with 
plastic covering
the media has reported recently on poor standards of new builds including  a lack of 
skills, lack of supervision and they have had the same issues  with NHBC
NHBC also responded to my provisional decision. It broadly agreed with my 
recommendations, barring the increased compensation for delays and disruption offered in 
its March 2017  final response.  
With regard to the delays, it said having  considered  my provisional decision it felt the final 
response letter in March 2017 did cover  the full period of delays. It provided a timeline  of its 
considerations from the time to show this. Based on this NHBC didnt agree the amount was 
within our services power to consider because Miss D and Mr P didnt bring their complaint 
to us within six months of that final response letter.
In response to this Miss D and Mr P provided information to show that they had referred  their 
complaint to our service within six months  of the final response letter. NHBC accepted  this, 
but it didnt agree that the £750 it offered should be doubled. It said that amount, coupled  
with the £500 I recommended for ongoing delays meant that the total level of compensation 
would be unfairly  high.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered the 
additional comments from both sides. Ill set out my thoughts below.
Ref: DRN65016749compensation for trouble  and upset
Ive considered NHBCs comments regarding the amount of compensation I suggested in my 
provisional decision. Having looked  through the timeline it provided there seems to have 
been around a years  worth of mostly avoidable delays. During  this time Miss D and Mr P 
had to chase for updates on several occasions,  some of which were ignored. They were also 
told meetings would take place which then didnt and they asked that no contractors attend 
their property in their absence, which they then did. During all of this, the re-render  was 
completed and there were  issues with the quality  of the work in some  areas   which  
wouldve caused additional upset.
Ive taken these  issues into account  alongside those highlighted in my provisional decision   
the damage to their garden gate and flowerbed, and the length  of time the claim has still 
been ongoing. Ive also thought about everything Miss D and Mr P have  said about the 
impact the issues have had on them. Based on everything Ive seen  I think the total amount  
of compensation  I recommended in my provisional  decision was fair.
I note that in my provisional decision I said NHBC had already  paid £750  so needed to pay a 
further £1,250.  But its since become apparent that the initial  £750 wasnt paid. So I think 
NHBC should pay Miss D and Mr P £2,000 compensation for trouble and upset.
window reveals
Miss D and Mr P have raised several issues about  the proposed repairs to their window 
reveals. Their main concern seems to be that the render is boss or hollow.
Ive reviewed and relied on expert opinions in order to reach  my provisional findings.  The 
report Miss D and Mr P had completed does refer to some areas of bossing. But it doesnt 
say that NHBCs proposed resolution wouldnt address the issue. The only concern it raises  
with painting the reveals is that it will create a maintenance issue.
NHBCs report also confirms that there  are some localised areas  of bossing. But it states 
that none were  so excessive as to warrant removal and reapplication. Ultimately,  neither of 
the expert reports appear to find that painting  the reveals wont provide an effective and 
lasting repair. So based on the available evidence I think it painting the window reveals with 
suitable masonry paint,  and paying the cost of having them  repainted twice, is a suitable  
resolution to this issue and in line with the policy terms.
In terms of Miss D and Mr Ps point about  their neighbours window reveals,  Im unable  to 
comment. Our service  looks at each case on its own facts. And based on the facts of 
Miss D and Mr Ps complaint, I think painting the window reveals is a suitable  resolution to 
this issue.
If Miss D and Mr P decide they wish to raise a new claim on the guarantee they have on the 
re-render they are free to do so.
mastic sealant
In my provisional decision I explained  the NHBC policy  definition  of a defect.  I explained 
what this meant for the issues with the render consistency and the finishing at different 
interfaces. To summarise, both sets of experts agree that applying mastic sealant  will 
address the weather tightness and reduce the risk of water ingress.
Ref: DRN650167410Miss D and Mr P are unhappy with the proposed  resolution because they say mastic sealant  
is prone  to weathering and becoming unsightly.
I accept that the life expectancy of mastic  sealant is less than that of the render. This is why I 
explained in my provisional decision  that I felt it would be fair for NHBC to also pay the cost 
of having the sealant  reapplied once. This will allow Miss D and Mr P to replace the sealant  
when it starts to show signs of expiration.
Overall, Miss D and Mr Ps concerns about the mastic sealant havent  changed  my decision. 
Their policy  states  that damage which is purely cosmetic and which doesnt impair the 
structural stability or weather tightness  of the property  isnt covered. The expert  reports  
indicate that applying sealant  at all junctions  will address  the weather tightness. So I still 
think this is a suitable remedy that is in line with the terms of the policy, on the basis  that 
NHBC also cover the cost of reapplying the sealant once.
discolouration and telephone wire
It isnt in dispute that there is some discolouration to the gable end of Miss D and Mr Ps 
property. NHBC  is of the view that the damage is purely cosmetic  and isnt affecting the 
performance of the render.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  neither  the NHBC technical  guidance nor 
Miss D and Mr Ps policy contain  a provision for discolouration of render. And as I havent 
seen any expert evidence to say that the render isnt performing, I dont think the 
discolouration amounts to a defect.  So I dont think NHBC needs to do anything to address  
it.
Similarly, while I appreciate Miss D and Mr P were expecting a different material  to be used 
for the phone wire repair; I havent seen any evidence that the current repair  hasnt 
addressed the weakness. Based on the available evidence Im satisfied  that, on balance, the 
work will provide a lasting  and effective repair. So I dont think  NHBC needs to anything  
more here.
I note that NHBC has previously offered to apply a top coat to the area. Its not clear whether 
that offer is still available.  But Ill leave  it for Miss D and Mr P to explore this with NHBC if 
they decide its something they might now be interested in.
use of primer
I contacted NHBC about this issue and asked it to provide an answer on this point, as it is 
clearly very important to Miss D and Mr P. NHBC  said that the contractor that completed the 
render work  is no longer  on its panel  of approved contractors. It also says it understands that 
this contractor sub-contracted to another contractor  who NHBC have no relationship  with. 
Because of this it hasnt been  able to obtain a record  of the works.
NHBC says that the report  supplied  by Miss D and Mr P doesnt say for definite  that primer 
wasnt used. It also says that the instruction  NHBC issued to the contractors did say that the 
render should  be applied in line with the manufacturers guidelines. So it is unclear as to why 
Miss D and Mr P believe that no primer was used.
Ref: DRN650167411Given what NHBC has said about  the contractor that completed the works, I think its unlikely 
that well ever know for certain  whether the correct primer was used. But ultimately  I stand 
by the finding I reached in my provisional decision.  That is, the inspection report didnt 
highlight that these apparent departures from the manufacturers guidelines have caused 
any weakness or damage. And neither of the reports suggested that the render in this area 
isnt performing as it should do. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen I think the render is performing, and has provided a lasting 
and effective repair. So I dont think NHBC needs  to do anything  more to address  this issue. 
remaining issues
I covered several  other issues in my provisional  decision. These  were:
internal cracking
damage to lead flashing
damage to flower bed
reimbursement of second  survey
Neither side has offered  additional comments on my findings  for these issues. So in the 
absence of new evidence  or arguments Ive reached the same  findings for these issues as I 
did in my provisional decision  for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold 
Miss D and Mr Ps complaint in part.
National House-Building Council should:
address the issues with the inconsistencies  of the render in line with its contract  
surveyors recommendations  seal vulnerable junctions with polysulphide mastic 
bead  and pay Miss D and Mr P the cost of having this reapplied  once
address the issues of finishing at different interfaces in line with the independent 
inspection report  apply mastic  sealant  at all vulnerable junctions   and pay 
Miss D and Mr P the cost of having this reapplied once
address the cracking/crazing in window reveals in line with its contract  surveyors  
recommendations  apply suitable  masonry paint  and pay Miss D and Mr P the 
cost of having this reapplied twice
reimburse the £570 Miss D and Mr P paid for their follow  up survey and pay interest* 
on the amount  from the date they paid for the survey to the date of settlement
pay £250 for the damage to the flower beds
pay Miss D and Mr P a total of £2,000 compensation for trouble and upset
Ref: DRN650167412*If National  House-Building Council considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to take off income tax from any interest  due to Miss D and Mr P, it should  tell them how 
much its taken off. It should also give Miss D and Mr P a certificate  showing this if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6501674