K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from TSB Bank plc (TSB) following his 
purchase of a used  car. He complains that TSB ought to have recovered the money  he sent 
by way of Faster Payment to the seller; that TSB didnt  help him when he first raised the 
matter; they ought  to have checked the account he wanted to send the money  to before it 
was sent, and that he received poor service from his local branch whom  he felt were racially 
profiling him.
background
I wont repeat the investigators entire  background summary because  it covers the issues  
and I want to avoid  repetition. So, if Ive not mentioned something  its not because  Ive 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues.  Mr W bought  a car from a 
business I will call UC. UC asked him to pay £4,150  for the car by faster payment, which  he 
did, sending some of the money from his TSB account, and the rest from his HSBC account.  
Mr W said he went into a TSB branch and gave  the bank clerk  UCs sort code, account 
number and full name,  asking  TSB if they could check the account name matched the 
account details.  When TSB said they couldnt  do that Mr W made the payment in any event.
Mr W got the car the same day he made the payment but found it was faulty. He tried getting  
his money back from UC through the Court  process but it appears he was not successful. 
Mr W feels that TSB ought to have  checked  the name on the account he was sending  the 
money to as he had requested. But TSB said they didnt have the ability  to carry out a check 
like that with a third party bank. TSB also said they couldnt raise a chargeback or section 75 
Credit Consumer Act claim because for those types  of claim to work, the payment to the 
merchant had to be made  with a debit or credit card, not by way of Faster Payment.
TSB also said there had been no evidence provided to show  that any of the banks staff had 
provided a poor service  or racially  profiled him. And they didnt accept  there had been a 
fraud committed arguing that it was a civil claim because the issue  was one of quality of 
goods. TSB did however accept that it had initially opened a fraud case  when Mr W had first 
brought it to their attention, but said they had been wrong to do that. They apologised for the 
upset and frustration  they had caused  in doing that and paid Mr W £150 compensation.
Mr W was unhappy with TSBs response and believed he had been the victim of a scam , so 
an investigator from this service looked  into the complaint but didnt think TSB had acted 
unfairly. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Mr W. My aim is to ensure  that a fair and reasonable outcome has been  achieved, which 
means taking into account both TSBs view and that of Mr W. My decisions are based on the 
evidence supplied to me. Where  such evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or contradictory,  
I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, I consider  
what is more likely  to have happened  in the light of that evidence  and the wider  
circumstances of the case.  Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate 
situation here, and I am sorry to hear this matter has affected  Mr Ws mental well being.
Ref: DRN64671382Mr W entered into an agreement with UC for the sale and purchase of a used car. As UC 
handed the car over to Mr W, and there is no evidence that it is a stolen car, it seems  logical 
that UC only did so when they received the money  Mr W sent to them.  So it would seem the 
bank details Mr W provided  to TSB were  correct. 
His complaint however  is subtly  different  to the claim he brought in Court. In bringing this 
complaint, he feels TSB should have helped him more by checking the name of the business 
he was sending the money to. Our investigator  has previously referred to the terms and 
conditions which govern Mr Ws account  pointing out the relevant  section says,  Youre  
responsible for giving us the correct  information  for the person you want to pay.  So I dont 
think TSB have acted unfairly here,  since the details Mr W gave TSB seem  to be correct. 
And it was Mr Ws responsibility to check out the authenticity of UC if he had doubts,  not 
TSBs. Further,  TSB specifically told Mr W that they couldnt carry out the checks he wanted 
them to make, and despite that he went ahead with the purchase by sending  UC the money.
This is not a case of fraud. It is, potentially,  a case for breach of contract, which  it appears 
Mr W has already  pursued.  Given that it is not a fraud, then the only mechanism for recovery  
of the money,  by TSB,  is by chargeback  or section 75 claim, neither of which  apply in these 
circumstances because  Mr W didnt pay for the car with his debit or credit card.
Ive also given thought to the claim that Mr W has been racially  profiled. Im not sure exactly  
what he means by this, but would anticipate he means he feels  TSB have discriminated 
against him by reason of race. There is no evidence to support that, in fact there is no 
evidence I have seen  to support any allegation that Mr W was treated badly or differently in 
any form because of his race.  So I cant  uphold that element  of his complaint either.
 
Ive thought about the £150  offer of compensation TSB made to Mr W in respect of the 
opening a claim  for fraud, when clearly  it wasnt  such a case.  I think  this is a reasonable sum 
and is in line with the awards  this service would  make  for distress and inconvenience in 
circumstances like this. So, whilst I appreciate my decision  will be disappointing for Mr W, I 
cant say that TSB have  acted unfairly  here and so Im not upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank plc. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr W to accept or reject 
my decision  before 5 January 2020.  
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6467138