K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a used motor  car he agreed  to buy from Close Brothers Limited  under a 
conditional sale agreement wasnt  of satisfactory  quality as required by the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015.
background
January 2018,  Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers  to buy a 
used car. The car was some ten years old and had a recorded  mileage  of 119,000 miles. 
The cash  price of the car was £2,790. Mr M paid a deposit of £790, and agreed to pay the 
balance and the finance charges by 36 monthly payments of £78.99 each.
Mr M noticed some noise from the car at the time of sale, and within  a week  he noticed 
some other faults. The gear change was difficult and the car sometimes  failed to start. Mr M 
took the car back  to the dealer, who changed  the glow plugs and fixed  a wheel  bearing  
which it said was causing the noise.
In May 2018, Mr M was still experiencing problems. He complained to Close  Brothers, who 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent motor  engineer.  By this time the car 
had covered a further 9,274  miles. 
The engineers report said there  was a leak in the power steering system, as well as a 
problem with the dual mass flywheel. It stated that if the faults had been present at the point 
of purchase, they wouldve been evident in the first 1,000-2,000 miles,  making  it unlikely they 
were there when Mr M bought the car. It attributed the problems with the car to the amount 
of mileage Mr M had covered in the four months he had been  driving  it.
In the light of the report, Close Brothers  didnt accept that the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality at the time of purchase, and didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. Mr M complained to us 
and arranged for the car to be repaired.  A new fuel rail pressure sensor  and injector was 
fitted, and the clutch and dual mass  flywheel  were replaced, at a total cost of £1,360.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 required that goods be of satisfactory  quality at the time they 
were supplied to a consumer. However the standard to be expected of used goods was less 
than for brand  new goods. 
Also to be considered  was whether  any fault was general wear and tear for a car of its age 
and mileage, or was an inherent  defect.  In this case the car was 10 years  old and had 
covered a substantial  mileage. So it was to be expected that some parts would need 
repairing or replacing. This didnt necessarily mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Some issues with the car became evident  soon after Mr M bought  the car. The supplying 
dealer replaced  glow plugs  and wheel bearings, which  the adjudicator said were considered 
serviceable items. 
When the latest issues with the power  steering and dual mass flywheel were  identified by the 
independent engineer, the car had covered a further  9,000  miles since  Mr M bought it. The 
engineer said that in his opinion the latest  issues werent present at the time of sale. He 
considered that if they had been, they would have  materialised in the first 1,000/2,000 miles 
Ref: DRN69247952of use, and become evident  to the driver. He thought the condition of the car was not 
untypical for its age and mileage.
The adjudicator said he couldnt fairly say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied. So he didnt think Close Brothers had treated Mr M unfairly. Mr M didnt agree with 
the adjudicators  recommendation.  So this complaint  has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  I have to decide in this complaint is whether  the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the time it was supplied  to Mr M, bearing  in mind its age and the mileage it had then 
covered. Only if it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time will Mr M be entitled to look to 
Close Brothers for a remedy.
Where issues  are of a technical nature, as in this case, we tend to place reliance  on any 
expert reports that are available. When Mr M complained to Close  Brothers in May 2018,  it 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent motor  engineer.  The report  of the 
engineer concluded that:
the faults it found at inspection wouldnt have been developing at finance inception  
based on the mileage then being  119,000  and the mileage at inspection  being 
128,274;
the issues were the risks and costs of owning a used vehicle and ongoing repairs 
and maintenance  to keep the vehicle serviceable commensurate with its age and 
mileage;
the vehicle  was considered commensurate with its age and mileage and a typical  
example; and
the engineer  had seen  nothing to suggest the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at 
sale.
Mr M has said that he had some problems with the car shortly after he acquired it. He took it 
back to the supplying dealer and in February 2018  confirmed to Close  Brothers that the 
vehicle seemed to be repaired and was running  well. However  in May 2018 he complained  
again to Close Brothers  and the independent report was produced. Mr M hasnt produced 
any expert evidence  to contradict the conclusions  of this report.
On the basis of the evidence Ive seen I cant say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality for its 
age and mileage  when Mr M acquired it in January 2018. I therefore think Close  Brothers 
has treated Mr M fairly, and dont require it to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Close  Brothers 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Ref: DRN69247953Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6924795