K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains Capital One (Europe)  plc should refund him multiple credit card payments  he 
says he didnt make and the interest  and charges he incurred as a result.  He also says Capital 
One shouldnt  have closed his three credit card accounts or reported them as defaulted. 
Background
Mr S was a customer of Capital One for some time and held three  credit  card accounts with 
them, opened in 2006, 2011 and 2013  respectively. 
Mr S contacted Capital  One in January 2018 to obtain all of his credit  card statements for the 
last six years. He says he did this because hed noticed interest  being  charged for cash 
advances on one of his accounts and wanted to see if it had been charged before. On reviewing  
the statements  for the account, he opened  in 2006 he says a large number of payments came  
to his attention  that he didnt recognise.  The payments  were  made  to a merchant and were 
charged each week  between September 2012 and November  2013. For the first two months  the 
payments were for £5.98 after which they increased to £7.98  until they ceased.
Mr S reported the payments as fraudulent  to Capital One. Capital One refunded the 
payments to Mr S credit card balance on 17 January  2018  but re-debited  them  on 12 
February 2018. Mr S says he discovered Capital One had re-debited  the payments when he 
tried to use one of his cards and it wouldnt work.  He contacted  Capital One, who told him 
theyd removed the use of his credit  facilities and they were  going to close his accounts. 
Capital One sent Mr S three letters dated  14 February 2018, one for each of his accounts. 
The letters confirmed he could no longer use his credit cards  and they gave him two months  
notice of their intention to close his accounts.  The letters went on to say the accounts would 
remain open after the notice period if any balances remained but would close  once the 
balances were brought to zero.
Mr S complained to Capital One about  their actions. He says he thinks  they re-debited  his 
account because  hed asked them to refund the interest that had accrued  as a result  of the 
payments he disputed.  He thinks their decision to re-debit his account goes against  their 
own fraud departments  findings, who wouldnt have refunded him in the first place if they 
thought hed agreed to the payments. 
Capital One rejected his complaint. They acknowledge Mr S had asked them to refund the 
interest but say this did not influence their decision to re-debit  the payments. They say their 
decision to initially refund the payments is their usual process while  a fraud  investigation is 
ongoing. And, they only re-debited the payments after concluding Mr S gave his consent  to 
them being  made.
Capital One say Mr S wouldve noticed the transactions long before raising his complaint. 
The payments appeared monthly  on his credit card statements and wouldve been visible to 
him when  he logged on to his online Capital  One account, something he did frequently. Their 
historic interactions with Mr S lead them to believe he pays  close attention to his account.  
Their records show hes raised  a lot of disputes about his accounts and the activity that 
takes place on them. 
Ref: DRN68903912Mr S brought his complaint to us. He says he doesnt recognise the merchant, he believes it 
to be a scam, and he didnt receive  anything from them.  The investigator who went  on to 
answer Mr Ss complaint had several phone conversations with him through the course of 
their investigation, some  of which Ill now detail because of their relevance. 
On a call the investigator had with Mr S on 24 January 2019 they drew his attention  to a call 
note Capital One had sent us, which detailed a conversation  theyd had with him on 2 
September 2013. The note detailed the name of the merchant and says Mr S had asked for 
its phone  number. Mr S said he recalled ringing Capital One to report the payments as fraud  
when they were happening,  but he couldnt recall  exactly  when. He denied asking for the 
merchants number because he wouldnt  call a business he believed to be a scam. 
On another call Mr S had with the investigator on 4 April 2019, they asked him why he didnt 
pursue things further with Capital One at that time if he didnt recognise  the payments. Mr S 
said hed expected Capital One to stop the payments, but they still allowed them to go 
through. As the payments did eventually stop, he says he forgot about them until he received 
copies of his statements  in January 2018.
During the call on 24 January  2019 Mr S also said he stopped making payments because he 
didnt think he shouldve  been charged interest  or other charges while he couldnt use them. 
Capital One have provided a call note of a conversation  they had with him on 28 March 
2018. The note states:
Pch advised doesnt want to be called  by colls as wont  be making payments to accounts  
whilst FOS dealing. Advised will add CT+M but charges + interest will still be applied (sic).
Mr S decision not to pay his minimum repayments caused arrears  to build up on all three of 
his accounts.  Capital One has sent us copies of approximately 32 letters they say they sent 
to him between the period  they gave him notice to close  his accounts and the accounts 
defaulting. The letters  comprise missed payment  letters, encouraging Mr S to get in touch if 
he had difficulty paying what  he owed, arrears notices, and eventually  default notices. 
Mr S acknowledges receiving these letters and says he rang Capital  One on 1 June 2018 to 
discuss his options.  Capital One say the recording of that call is no longer available as its 
been deleted in line with their data retention policy. They have, however, provided further 
contemporaneous records of the conversations they had with Mr S.
Mr S says during the call he had with Capital One he proposed paying £10 every two weeks  
on each of his accounts. He says Capital One rejected his proposal and werent willing to 
agree to anything  else. The note the Capital One representative recorded of their 
conversation indicates  they didnt agree to his proposal. And a further  call note from 29 June 
2018 states:
Pch unhappy  with charges on a/c and asking us to freeze while  the FOS investigate his 
complaint. Adv pch were unable to do this and the FOS have been informed of this (sic).
Mr S made some payments to his accounts in line with what hed proposed  from June 2018, 
but they didnt cover  the minimum payments or arrears Capital One were asking him to pay. 
Capital One sent him notifications that if he didnt bring his accounts in order,  they would 
record the accounts as defaulted,  which Mr S doesnt deny receiving. But he does say a 
notice to default for one of his accounts  isnt valid because it was dated  on a bank holiday.
Ref: DRN68903913The investigator asked  Mr S about  what he wanted to do about his debt and whether he 
wanted to discuss  a payment plan with Capital One.  Mr S said hed only agree to a plan if 
Capital One refunded him charges on his account  which had accrued since  hed brought his 
complaint to us, as well the amount in dispute. The investigator said they couldnt ask 
Capital One to refund him those  charges unless they were to uphold his complaint, and 
theyd yet to give him their answer  on his complaint.
Capital One cant  now say what amount theyd have been  prepared to accept in regard to 
Mr Ss debt.  They say theyre  still willing to discuss  a repayment plan with him for his remaining 
debt. They  revealed  that before his accounts defaulted, they mightve  been  able to agree a 
repayment plan with him which wouldnt have  resulted in a default if his debt was cleared within 
12 months. They also say Mr S has had three payment plans in place with them in the past.
The investigator decided  not to uphold  Mr S complaint. In summary they found:
-The Payment  Services Regulations 2009  are relevant to Mr S complaint. Under the 
regulations Capital One would need to refund the payments if Mr S hadnt  given his 
consent to them  being made.
-They were  satisfied  the payments were authenticated  in other  words  the correct  
details from his card were likely used for the payments  to be processed - and a valid 
continuous payment  authority had been  set up using the details  on Mr S credit card.
-Mr S acknowledges he pays close attention  to his account. And Capital Ones records of 
online log ins to his account show hed logged on multiple  times during the period the 
transactions took place. So, its likely  he wouldve seen  the payments when they were 
being made.  
-Mr S had sent Capital  One correspondence unrelated  to this dispute in December 2012. 
The correspondence included  a bank statement showing a payment to the merchant, 
but it doesnt appear a dispute  was raised  about  the payment at the time. 
-A telephone note from Capital One recorded  in September 2013  indicated Mr S had 
called them  asking  for the merchants  telephone  number.  Its likely the caller was Mr S 
as they wouldve  needed to pass through security  to speak to Capital Ones  
representative. But again, Mr S doesnt appear  to have raised a dispute about  the 
payments at that time.
-The merchant  who received the payments  went into liquidation several years ago and a 
new company under  a similar name was created in 2017. The director  of that company 
says they no longer  have any information on the previous companys customers 
because their systems were wiped of that data. It wasnt possible for them  to confirm 
how a continuous  payment authority  wouldve been  set up as their current system is 
very different to the old one.
-Mr S is certain he didnt agree to any continuous payment authority with the merchant, 
but the overall  evidence indicates  he gave his consent to the payments being made.
Ref: DRN68903914-Capital One had given  Mr S reasonable opportunities  to repay his outstanding balances  
and agree  a repayment plan with them. Theyd  sent him various letters,  which repeatedly  
and clearly  asked  him to contact them if he was unable  to meet  his repayment obligations. 
Although Mr S says hed consider  a plan if the interest  and charges he was charged  while  
the complaint was with us were refunded, this is something  wed only consider asking  
Capital One to do if we were  to uphold his complaint.
-Mr S had a duty to mitigate  his losses, but his actions of sometimes paying £10 per 
fortnight werent what Capital One had agreed  to. And his payments  didnt  cover  his 
minimum contractual payments or prevent  his arrears  increasing.  He hadnt indicated  he 
was in financial  difficulty, so it seems  he couldve  prevented  his accounts defaulting 
while his complaint was with our service.
-Capital One had sent Mr S valid notices as they were required to do before reporting  his 
accounts as defaulted.  And theyd applied the interest, fees and charges  in line with the 
terms of his accounts. So, asking them to refund these  sums and to remove the defaults 
wouldnt be appropriate.  
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings and has asked for a final decision,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for broadly the same reasons.
What I need to consider
I want Mr S to know Ive listened to every call hes had with the investigator who answered 
his complaint. And Ive considered every point hes made, although  I may not reference  each  
point specifically. After  doing so, it seems  his complaint has two main  elements I need to 
decide. The first is whether I think Capital One should refund him the payments he says he 
didnt make, as well as any interest  or charges  which  pertain to them.  And the second is 
whether I think Capital One acted appropriately by applying interest  and charges to his 
accounts while his complaint was with our service,  and by deciding to default those 
accounts. Ill address  each part in turn.
Should Capital  One refund Mr S for the payments he disputes?
Mr S says Capital One only re-debited the payments after hed asked for the interest  to be 
refunded that had accrued on them. I understand why Capital One refunding the payments 
before completing  a fraud investigation wouldve been confusing  - it seems reasonable for 
Mr S to have assumed  his balance would only be readjusted  if Capital One had decided he 
hadnt given his consent to the payments. But this is what Capital One say is their process,  
and in my experience, firms sometimes do refund disputed sums at the beginning of their 
investigations. So, Im satisfied that it does not automatically follow  that by initially refunding  
Mr S, Capital One had accepted Mr S version  of events. It was merely part of the process, 
but not the end conclusion. 
Ref: DRN68903915Capital One have provided sufficient  evidence to show they investigated  Mr Ss concerns 
about the payments and based on what they found they concluded hed agreed to them. 
They found  he likely set up a continuous  payment authority for goods, and they found he 
pays close attention  to his account  and wouldve raised a complaint much earlier than he did 
if he didnt recognise  the payments.  I understand its for these  reasons  they re-debited  his 
account, despite what Mr S says.  
The payments Mr S disputes  occurred between 2012-2013, so the Payment Services  
Regulations 2009 are relevant to his complaint.  The regulations  require Capital One to show  
the payments  Mr S were authenticated, which means were the technical procedures 
followed that Capital  One had in place to process  the payments. But even if the payments 
were authenticated, Capital  One would still need  to refund Mr S if he didnt give his consent 
to them  being  made.
Capital One no longer  hold the audit records to show for certain that the payments were 
authenticated, but this isnt surprising as this all happened over seven years  ago. Having  
considered all the available evidence for myself, Im satisfied that the payments were likely 
authenticated. Although I cant know for sure, I am persuaded because if the payer had 
submitted incorrect details from Mr S credit  card, its unlikely Capital Ones payment  
systems wouldve still processed the payments.  
Based on the available evidence, I understand that the payments went  to a merchant who 
sold healthy confectionary  and not a fake or scam company. The merchant was registered  at 
Companies House,  and archived webpages indicate its goods were  sold in a well-known 
department store and through its own website. With this in mind, and considering  the 
regularity of the payments, a continuous payment  authority  was likely set up, such  as a 
subscription for edible goods.  I say this because this kind of arrangement is common  when 
someone wishes to regularly receive  goods without having to give a new payment instruction 
each time- essentially,  a subscription of sorts.
I now need to consider  whether it was Mr S who agreed to purchase goods from the 
merchant. Its important  to say I cant know for certain what  happened when the authority 
was given to the merchant  to debit his account. The merchant  went  into liquidation  several 
years ago, and although  another related company is now set up under a different name, they 
have told the investigator  that they no longer hold records from the time the previous  
company existed. I do not consider  this to be unusual. 
So, when facts  are unclear or evidence is unavailable, as here, I need to decide  what  is 
more likely to have  happened  on balance. And based on everything Mr S has told the 
ombudsman service, and the evidence available  to me, I have arrived at the conclusion  that 
its more likely than not that Mr S gave his consent to enter  into a payment authority with the 
merchant. Ill explain why.
Mr S acknowledges he noticed the payments on his account during  the time they were  
made. The contemporaneous call note Capital One provided indicates he contacted  them 
about the merchant in September  2013, several  months before the payments stopped. I am 
satisfied that the caller  was him, because  the caller wouldve likely had to pass through 
telephone security to discuss  the accounts.  And I am satisfied that the call note is correct. as 
there isnt anything to suggest the call was noted  incorrectly. As such  I am satisfied that Mr S 
asked for the merchants  phone number, despite  what he says,  otherwise I doubt something 
so specific wouldve been recorded by the person he spoke to. 
Ref: DRN68903916Capital One have no other records  to show Mr S contacted them  about the payments to the 
merchant prior to his call in September 2013. But I am satisfied that Mr S wouldve noticed 
the payments  much  earlier  than this, and if he didnt  recognise them, hed have contacted  
Capital One very quickly. 
Mr S has confirmed  he pays close  attention to his accounts and Capital Ones records  
support this. They show hes raised  approximately 30 disputes with them over the course of 
being their customer.  Their records also show he logged into his Capital One account 
regularly  over 300 log ins to his account  are recorded throughout the period the payments 
were made. And it seems to me that Mr S wouldve logged  on to check the account in 
question at least on some  of these occasions.  As such, I am not persuaded that he did not 
notice the payments, or that he was unaware  of them. The evidence  supports that Mr S did 
know of the regular payment from his account. 
The account  statements  Capital  One have provided  clearly show the payment amounts 
being debited  and the merchants name,  which is distinctive. To my mind  its telling that Mr S 
sent Capital One a statement in 2012  in relation to a different unrelated  complaint he was 
making at that time and that statement showed a payment  to the merchant. So again, I find it 
surprising he wouldnt have closely examined what he was sending and raised an objection 
if he didnt recognise  the payment at that time. Its a logical conclusion that the payments 
wouldve been apparent to him and that he wouldve raised  the matter with Capital One if he 
did not know what the payments were.
Considering Mr S history  of raising disputes with Capital One, I doubt hed have let the 
payments continue if he hadnt  given his consent for them to be made. And in this context,  
I dont find what he says about not pursuing the matter further at that time as persuasive.  
So, on balance Im satisfied Mr S gave his consent  to the payments and Im not directing Capital 
One to refund the payments or any interest  or charges that were  charged in relation to them.   
Have Capital One acted appropriately in defaulting Mr S accounts?
Capital One can decide not to continue its relationship with Mr S, in the same way he 
couldve decided he no longer wanted to transact with them. Their decision is not something 
we would generally interfere with, as this would impinge on their freedom to decide  who they 
want as a customer. And from what Ive seen I cant see that their reasons for terminating 
their relationship with him arent legitimate.  They concluded he likely agreed  to the payments 
he disputes making, as have I, so they didnt  want him as their customer anymore.
Capital One followed  their terms and conditions in freezing Mr S accounts and giving him 
notice to close  they gave  him over two months,  the required contractual  period. The terms 
allow them to remove his access if they believe theres been  fraudulent  use of the account or 
they have reasonable grounds to suspect abuse  is about to be committed in connection with 
the use of his accounts. And frankly, I cant think of a compelling reason  why they shouldve 
allowed him to continue using his credit  cards if they reasonably  thought hed given his 
consent to the payments he was asking  them  to refund.
Capital Ones terms dont  say they had to stop charging Mr S interest on his accounts while 
his access was removed.  And I also dont  consider  charging interest  is unreasonable; his 
account balances  represented credit Capital  One had lent to him, and I do not consider  their 
refusal to lend him further funds should mean  their terms of borrowing should  be disapplied. 
But what  I must also consider is whether I think it was reasonable overall  for Capital One to 
continue charging  him and to then default his accounts.
Ref: DRN68903917Capital One should act with forbearance  and due consideration before deciding  to go ahead 
and default the accounts of one of their customers. And after considering all of their 
interactions with Mr S I think theyve satisfied  this requirement. They sent multiple  letters to 
him, which clearly asked him to contact them if hed struggle to repay what  he owed. But I 
find Mr S told another ombudsman at our service  in June 2018 that he wasnt  in financial 
difficulty, and during  a call he had with another ombudsman in May 2019,  he said hed paid 
off large amounts of his outstanding balances to demonstrate  his credibility.
I appreciate Mr S says Capital One didnt agree to his payment proposal. But while        
Capital One should give regard to a customers proposal to resolve their debt, they are not 
bound to accept  it - they may think another amount or arrangement  is a more appropriate 
and proportionate solution.  And in respect of what Mr S was proposing I can understand why 
Capital One didnt find it agreeable, as it wouldve taken Mr S several years to clear his debt.
So, despite  the payments Mr S made, I have reached the conclusion that it was reasonable 
for Capital  One to proceed charging  him according to their account terms and to eventually  
decide to default his accounts. He continuously  failed  to meet  his repayment obligations 
while seemingly being in a position  to do so. The fact his accounts were  frozen  while interest 
and charges continued to accrue, or the fact his complaint was awaiting our service  to 
investigate didnt negate those obligations.  This is especially the case,  as our service would 
only consider directing  Capital One to refund  charges if we were  to uphold his complaint.
Its important to also note that much  of Mr S account balances  represent credit for payments 
he doesnt dispute making. So, again  he was always obliged to make his contractual 
repayments whether  the payments he disputes were part of his balance or not. Hed received  
valid notices his accounts would be defaulted if he didnt  make the payments, which  clearly  
explain what  his accounts defaulting would mean. And I think he was aware  of the risk of his 
accounts defaulting and what this may mean before  those notices were sent - a call note 
Capital One recorded in July 2018 indicates he was anxious about  action being taken.
Mr S thinks  the notice to default he received for one of his accounts isnt valid because  he 
received it on a bank  holiday. But I disagree; Capital Ones  systems record  the letter  as 
dispatched on 24 December 2018, so the notice wasnt  sent on a bank holiday and it is valid.  
On balance I think Capital  One acted reasonably, so I am not directing them  to reopen the 
accounts or remove the defaults theyve recorded against them.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6890391