K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mr C says he couldnt afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed three short-term loans for Mr C between March  2016 and 
September 2017. Each loan was repayable  over between two and three months. 
Mr C re-financed loan 1. This is where he took out further borrowing under the same 
agreement, before paying back the initial  amount borrowed, and agreed a new repayment 
schedule. 
There was a gap of around  a year between Mr C repaying loan 2 and taking out loan 3. Ive 
set out a summary of the lending below.
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 30/03/2016 100 2 117
1a (re-finance) 01/05/2016 250 2 409
2 25/06/2016 200 2 256
3 09/09/2017 800 3 1,004
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Cs complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks QuickQuid carried  out on loan 1 were 
proportionate. But he thought that from loan 1a onwards the checks were  not proportionate.  
He thought that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve likely concluded 
that loans 1a and 2 wouldve still appeared to have  been affordable for Mr C. But he thought 
that loan 3 wouldve appeared to have been  unaffordable for Mr C, and therefore, as a 
responsible lender, QuickQuid would not have agreed to it.
QuickQuid disagreed with the findings. And Mr C raised no new arguments in response to 
the adjudicators  assessment. So as no agreements been  reached at this stage, the case  
has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
As it seems loans 1, 1a and 2 are no longer in dispute, my decision will focus on QuickQuids 
decision to approve  the remaining loan - loan 3.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate checks when  Mr C 
applied for his loans.  It said it analysed Mr C's current financial commitments, insolvency 
records, delinquency records, County Court  judgments,  credit enquiries and other credit 
accounts he had active. It said it also verified information obtained from Mr C directly as well 
Ref: DRN67897722as taking into account his credit-scoring  information  from credit reference agencies.  And 
based on these  checks it felt that it was appropriate  to lend him.
The adjudicators opinion set out in detail, why he thought  Mr Cs case should be upheld  in 
part, which Ive summarised above.
QuickQuid, in response to the adjudicators opinion, said amongst other things, that starting  
1 March 2015, it had implemented an affordability review that was consistent  with the FCA 
(Financial Conduct  Authority) Handbook  and was in place at the time it received  
authorisation by the FCA. And that its assessment was conducted properly and individually 
for each  of these applications after this date.
QuickQuid has raised  this generic argument across  many cases  brought  to our service. And 
this service has addressed this  specific point by QuickQuid  in several previous decisions, so I 
wont expand on it any further  here.  As by now, QuickQuid will be aware  that my role is to 
look not only into the rules  and regulations  set by the regulator  at the time of borrowing, but 
also the law, good industry  practice  and all the available evidence and arguments, to help 
decide whether  I think what  the business  has done is right or not.  So my decision will focus  
on the specifics of Mr Cs complaint and what  both parties have said about  this.
Having looked  at the specifics in this case,  I dont  think QuickQuid was right to provide Mr C 
with loan 3. Ill explain why.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Cs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Cs complaint. These  questions  are:
1.Did QuickQuid, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr C would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would 
those checks have  shown that Mr C would have been able to do so?
Ref: DRN678977232.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Cs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
1. Did QuickQuid, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  
itself that Mr C would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr C would have been  able to do so?
When Mr C took out loan 3, hed been borrowing from QuickQuid for around 18 months. 
However there had been a gap of around  a year between  Mr C repaying loan 2 and taking  
out loan 3.  In  instances where  such a gap exists, I might usually conclude that the checks 
QuickQuid needed  to carry out may not have to have been as thorough as if he had taken 
his third loan straight after his second  was repaid. 
However in this instance, while there was a gap of around a year,  Mr C had late payment 
fees on his second loan.  And more importantly,  this loan was for a significantly higher 
amount than any of the previous loans hed borrowed. 
Given what Ive said about Mr Cs previous repayment history, and the fact that the highest 
monthly repayment on this loan (£1,004) was over 80% of Mr Cs recorded  monthly  income 
(£1,250), I think QuickQuid shouldve been  concerned about Mr Cs ability  to maintain the 
repayments on this loan sustainably. And as a result  shouldve  conducted  a full review  of 
Mr Cs financial  circumstances,  verifying  the information provided,  to ensure that he could do 
so.
Had QuickQuid carried out such a review, it wouldve seen that when  Mr C took out loan 3, 
his monthly income  was closer to £1,000 a month,  rather than the £1,250  hed declared. 
Mr Cs told us now that he was spending  almost £350 a month on his regular bills, which is a 
little less, but not that dissimilar to what he seems to have disclosed to QuickQuid at £400. 
But proportionate checks wouldve also shown  QuickQuid  that he owed over £200 to other  
short-term lenders at this time. So his monthly disposable income was actually closer to 
£450, which was insufficient to meet the highest  repayment due of £1,004.
QuickQuid has argued that Mr C could put aside money from his disposable  income in the 
first two months,  in order to meet the higher repayment that fell due in month 3. But in the 
month prior to taking out this loan, Mr C seems to have taken out at least  six short-term 
loans with other lenders. So I dont think its reasonable, given this pattern of borrowing, for 
QuickQuid to have  thought Mr C was in a position to save. So I think  it wouldve been wrong 
to assess the affordability of this loan in this way.
In summary,  I dont think the checks QuickQuid carried out on loan 3 were proportionate.  
And I think proportionate  checks wouldve shown QuickQuid that Mr C was not in a position 
to meet  the repayments on loan 3 sustainably. And therefore, as a responsible  lender, I dont 
think it wouldve agreed to this. 
2. Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mr Cs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive not gone onto assess the overall pattern  of lending at this stage, because I dont need 
to, as I already  think the loan that remains in dispute should not have been agreed.
Ref: DRN678977243. Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some 
other way.  
what QuickQuid  needs to do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think QuickQuid shouldve agreed to loan 3 for Mr C. 
So it needs  to refund all of the interest and charges Mr C paid towards  this loan. 
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid on loan 3 agreed in September 2017
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mr Cs credit  file 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If however, Mr C is yet to have repaid the capital borrowed on loan 3 - QuickQuid should: 
remove all interest and charges added to loan 3 from the outset, and treat any 
repayments made as payments towards the principal sum borrowed. 
If, after the above has been  actioned, a balance  remains outstanding, a mutually  agreeable 
repayment plan should be arranged.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6789772