K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that he was mis-sold a protection  plan in May 2000. Although it was 
sold by a different  financial  business  ReAssure Limited has taken over the policy  and 
accepted responsibility for the sale. For simplicity I will refer to ReAssure Limited  (ReAssure) 
as the seller.
background
Mr B was sold a decreasing term business protection  plan when taking out a commercial  
mortgage and an overdraft facility in May 2000.  The policy had a 15 year term and cover 
ended in May 2015. 
Mr B felt the policy was mis-sold to him as he says that he was told it was a requirement of 
being given a loan. He says he was not given  the opportunity to take out a policy from
elsewhere. Further Mr B feels that the policy was not suitable for him as 
a sole practitioner  owning his own firm.
ReAssure did not agree that the policy had been  mis-sold so Mr B referred  his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator didnt think the business  did anything wrong. Mr B appealed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that Mr B feels  strongly 
about this matter and I have  read his submissions  with care. Having done so, Im not going 
to uphold his complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Although it was a requirement at the time of the sale to have sufficient cover in place to re-
pay the debt in the event  of death,  there  is no evidence that ReAssure told Mr B that he had 
to take this policy. Indeed from the documentation  available from the sale its clear  that a fact 
find was carried out and a recommendation was made  that the policy  was suitable. This was 
noted as being because  it suited  Mr Bs objectives  at the lowest cost each month. The fact 
find also shows that the adviser  identified a loan protection need and the clients response  
to this was to action  now as opposed to action later.
I note too that that the policy schedule  made  it clear that the seller  gave  advice and 
recommendations only on its own products. So I cant conclude that this information was 
withheld from Mr B.
Mr B has made the point  that ReAssure made commission  from the sale of the policy.  He 
feels that he was not made aware  of this. However  the personal  illustration detailing the 
benefits Mr B had selected specifically stated that commission was payable and how much  it 
was. This is not unusual  and I dont find it supports Mr Bs contention that the policy was 
mis-sold to him.
Mr B also feels  that the policy was unsuitable because he was a sole practitioner and so he 
says that the cover  for someone in full time employment was not suitable for him. If the 
policy didnt offer cover to sole practitioners  or the self-employed, I would agree with Mr B. 
But thats not the case. The intention of the policy is provide protection if the policyholder 
dies or is diagnosed with a critical illness. Im satisfied that in the event of a valid claim the 
Ref: DRN66041002policy would have paid benefit to Mr B. Mr Bs complaint about his claim has been 
addressed in a separate decision.
I recognise that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont  find that the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr B or that it was mis-sold to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6604100