K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Arnold  Clark Automobiles Limited (Arnold  Clark) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied  for the loan 
and PPI policy in a meeting.  
The loan was repayable over a 60 month  term. The monthly loan repayment  was £122.53 
with the PPI costing  an additional £8.33. The policy didnt attract  interest and could be 
cancelled by either party with 30 days notice without penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Ms monthly  loan repayment for up to 
12 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as an Electrician and Electrical  Instructor. He has told us he 
was entitled to at least  6 months worth of sick pay and had another insurance  policy  in place 
covering him for accident and sickness as well as being entitled  to redundancy pay. Mr M 
has said he suffered depression and had a head  injury as a child.  He says in 2002  he had a 
week off work due to whiplash and back pain,  but he has not said this condition was 
ongoing. 
Arnold Clark was sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2006. 
Mr Ms representative was made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
Arnold Clark  failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Arnold Clark should 
have told Mr M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Arnold Clark should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN68827202Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service was set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Arnold Clark,  selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN68827203Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Arnold  Clark  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Arnold Clark was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Arnold Clark  gave  advice, whether it advised Mr M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Arnold Clark gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and 
Arnold Clark,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr M know he had a choice?
Arnold Clark had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
I have seen a copy of Mr Ms application form. On it I can see that the details and cost of his 
loan and PPI premium have been  set out and just under this Mr M has signed  to take PPI 
Ref: DRN68827204under the declaration I hereby confirm  that I have received  the Summary of Cover and have 
read and understood the terms  and conditions that apply.
Just under this Mr M was given the option  to decline the cover by signing under the words  I 
have had the benefits of Clark Cover explained to me and I have chosen not to take the 
plan.
I can also see that following signing for PPI that Mr M went on to complete  a separate direct  
debit mandate  for the cover. If Mr M didnt want PPI he couldve  declined to take it on the 
application form. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr M knew the policy  was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Arnold Clark provide advice?
Arnold Clark says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Mr M disagrees.   Looking at what  
happened when  Arnold Clark sold Mr M the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided  advice.  I 
say this because  Arnold Clark has told us that its PPI sales  werent advised and all the sales 
documentation Ive seen only offers information about the product and doesnt ask any 
questions about  Mr Ms personal  circumstances  which I think  supports a non-advised sale.
This means  Arnold Clark didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr M. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr M to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mr M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the cost as it was outlined in 
the application and insurance  certificate.  I also think its unlikely Mr M would have taken out 
the policy without  any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might  
be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Arnold  Clark gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
M agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Arnold  Clark gave  Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative was raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN68827205-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M was suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Arnold Clark ought  to have done either.  
What effect did Arnold Clarks shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extent  did Mr M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Arnold  Clark didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr M. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Arnold Clark done  things properly.  
Mr M says he would not have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr M had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr M thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr M was suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr M was given about the cost was clear. But the information about other 
aspects of the policy, such as benefit,  limitations  and exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been.  
Im not persuaded Arnold Clark made clear exactly what  Mr M would get back  in return  in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ms expectations about what the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN68827206The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr M knew  about in the 
12 months before the start date of the policy that reoccurred  within  24 months  of the 
start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking  out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   although Mr M did suffer an 
injury in 2002 there is no evidence this caused an ongoing condition or that he had any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr M 
from taking out the policy,  Mr M, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it 
out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr M made  redundant,  or unable to work through  accident  or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr M would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
Ref: DRN68827207substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Arnold Clark should pay Mr M compensation,  as that would  put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  Arnold Clark misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Arnold Clarks statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Arnold 
Clark failed  to act fairly and reasonably  was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Arnold Clark gave  Mr M, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2004 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Arnold Clark [negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr M and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Arnold Clark] had been  in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN68827208my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6882720