K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo).
background
In February 2018  Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with Motonovo.  At the point of supply the car was approximately  10 years old and had 
covered approximately 118,000  miles.
Initially, Mr A was unhappy to discover  that the car was a category U. He found  it difficult  to 
obtain insurance but eventually managed  to do so. He complained  to Motonovo but it 
rejected the complaint and said he hadnt suffered any financial loss.
When Mr A collected the car he discovered  that there was a fault with the EGR valve and 
that the car needed new brake discs and pads. The dealership agreed to pay £650 towards 
the costs of these  repairs. Mr A booked the car into a third party garage to have repairs  
carried out. The garage advised  him that the car needed £4000 worth  of repairs, including 
the replacement  of the prop shaft.
Mr A complained to Motonovo. It refused  to pay for the repairs.  It said the estimate was too 
expensive and didnt  show  what the faults  were, only what  repairs were needed. Mr A 
obtained a second estimate, this time at £2600. Shortly afterwards the car broke down and 
was recovered  to the dealership. The breakdown was described as a worn prop shaft.
Motonovo arranged  for an independent inspection. This was completed in October  2018  and 
concluded that there was no fault with the suspension but that there was a rattling  noise 
coming from inside  the car. Based on the report,  Motonovo rejected Mr As complaint. 
Mr A complained to this service. Initially our investigator didnt  uphold  the complaint. He said 
that although the estimate for repairs provided by Mr A and the conclusions in the 
independent report  appeared to be in conflict, he didnt  feel that there was enough evidence 
to show that there was a point of supply  fault. 
Mr A didnt agree. He discovered that Motonovo had only asked the independent  engineer to 
report on the rattle from the suspension area and hadnt made  him aware  of all the other  
issues identified in the repair estimates.  The engineer  provided  some further comments and 
said he was of the opinion that the fault with the suspension was present at the point  of 
supply.
Based on the engineers further  comments,  the investigator upheld  the complaint and said 
Motonovo should write off the debt and pay compensation. Motonovo  didnt respond to the 
investigators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Motonovo has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard 
Ref: DRN68978032as acceptable,  taking into account factors such as the age ad mileage of the car and the 
price paid. 
I would expect a second hand  car such as that supplied to Mr A to have a degree of wear  
and tear. So in order  to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there  was a 
fault with the car at the point of supply.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt to 
repair the fault. If the repair  isnt successful the consumer can reject the car.
Mr A initially  experienced  a fault with the EGR valve. The dealership  paid for these repairs.  It 
was whilst these repairs were being  carried out that the garage  advised  Mr A that further 
repairs were needed,  including repairs to the prop shaft. 
Mr A obtained two separate estimates for repairs. The first estimate dated May 2018  said 
that repairs were needed  to the prop shaft and suspension. The second estimate dated 
September 2018 said the same thing.  Following the breakdown  in September 2018 the 
motor rescue organisation said that the cause was a worn prop shaft.
In his further comments, the independent  engineer said there  was an oil leak from the 
suspension. He was of the view that the fault with the prop shaft was present at the point of 
supply.
Based on the available information, there is a consistent opinion  amongst both the garages  
that provided estimates and the breakdown organisation and the independent engineer that 
the car had a fault with the proper shaft.  This was identified  in May 2018 and based  on what  
the independent engineer has said, Im persuaded that the fault was present at the point  of 
supply. 
Even though  this is a second  hand  car with quite high mileage, its a luxury  brand of car and 
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect it to be supplied  with such  a major fault. I 
dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point  of supply.
Motonovo has since sold the car. A fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint would 
be to write  off the debt and pay compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  FirstRand Bank Limited  must write  off the 
outstanding debt and pay compensation of £200 to Mr A for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6897803