K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them PPI. Although it was a 
joint mortgage, the policy was set up just to cover Mr B.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
application form and separate PPI application  form. On the mortgage  application  form 
they have indicated that they were interested in taking  out PPI for Mr B but not for Mrs B, 
by ticking the relevant  boxes and then signing.  The PPI application  form has then been 
completed just for Mr B, showing the level of benefit and the cost of the policy. Mr B has 
signed the form.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example,  it wasnt  sold to 
Mrs B because  she was a housewife. Mr B was eligible for the cover and although he 
Ref: DRN64049162had some limited work benefits, and the couple had some savings, they still seem to 
have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Bs employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr B says he had medical conditions  some time before 
the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong  for BoS to have recommended  it. I 
say this because  Mr B has mentioned having  a tonsillectomy as a child. He has also 
mentioned having a strained back in 1981  after lifting  something,  although it was treated 
with painkillers at the time and he didnt miss any work. As these  conditions  were not 
ongoing at the time of the sale,  I doubt Mr B would have  thought  these might be reasons 
for him needing  to make a claim on the policy. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Ive found  that they chose to take it out for Mr B - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr B as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what Mr and Mrs B reasonably thought they were  
buying from the information  they were given.  It also looks like it was affordable   so it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for them if something went  wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr and Mrs B would  have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have  still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should  have  disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I do 
not uphold this complaint.
This means  BoS doesnt  have to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN64049163my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 October  2021.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6404916