K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2010 to 
cover a hire purchase agreement. Mr and Mrs F say First Response Finance Ltd mis-sold 
them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
The PPI covered Mrs F only so I have  mainly considered her circumstances at the time it 
was sold.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
First Response had to make Mr and Mrs F aware  the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their hire purchase agreement. Mr and Mrs F have  told us they 
were forced to take the PPI and told they wouldnt be accepted for the hire purchase unless 
they agreed to have  it. Mr and Mrs F took their hire purchase agreement alongside a car 
purchase. In order to get finance  for the purchase, Mrs F spoke with First Response  over the 
phone. Ive been able to listen to a call recording of the conversation between Mrs F and the 
First Response advisor. And Im satisfied that the advisor explains that Mrs F had a choice 
about purchasing  the PPI. The advisor gave Mrs F a quote for the finance with PPI and 
without PPI and Mrs F decided to take the policy.
The credit agreement that Mr and Mrs F agreed to also refers to the PPI as Optional  
Payment Protection  Insurance.  The option  to take PPI has been  selected and the policy  has 
been signed for separately from agreeing to the hire purchase by Mr and Mrs F. Taking all of 
the evidence into consideration,  Im satisfied that First Response gave Mr and Mrs F a 
choice about purchasing  PPI and they agreed to take it out.
First Response recommended the PPI to Mrs F so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her. Mrs F has told us she would have  been entitled to generous  sick pay from her employer 
at the time she took the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mrs Fs sick 
pay, and for longer than she would  have received full pay. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Its possible the information First Response gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But as I think they chose to take it out - it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F have said - but these points dont change my 
decision.
Ref: DRN62202502Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs F paid on the PPI  and whether First 
Response treated them unfairly.  First Response has told us that the commission  for Mr and 
Mrs Fs PPI was less than half of what they paid for each  premium.  Weve looked at how 
First Response has been working this out and based on what  weve  seen it looks like its 
right  Mr and Mrs Fs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  
I dont think it needed to tell them about  the commission  so I dont think  First Response 
treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt  need  to pay Mr and Mrs F back  any of the 
commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am 
required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6220250