K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) has unfairly  brought court  proceedings 
to repossess her mortgaged property following the end of its interest only term. Mrs D would 
like the bank to extend the mortgage  for her lifetime  and reduce the interest rate.
background
Mrs D took out an interest only mortgage, borrowing around £102,000,  in 2007. The term of 
the mortgage ended in November 2017. Mrs D says that by then the property was in 
negative equity. 
During 2018, BoI and Mrs D discussed  the mortgage, but no way forward could be agreed. 
So BoI instructed its solicitors and in late 2018  took court proceedings. The court agreed to 
stay proceedings  for us to consider  the complaint. Since then, the coronavirus  pandemic has 
hit, and the regulator has said that lenders cant take action to enforce repossession before 
1 April 2021.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us. She said she was in her seventies and as the property 
was in negative  equity it couldnt  be sold. Mrs D didnt want  to lose her home  and wanted 
BoI to allow her to live in it for the rest of her life. Mrs D also wants  the interest rate to be 
reduced saying if the rate was lower she would have had more money to reduce the 
capital. Mrs D explained her intention was always to re-mortgage at the end of the term, but 
now she cant do that and is trapped. Mrs D said the financial crash in 2008 caused her 
negative equity  which was caused by the banks and in which BoI was complicit. BoI had 
caused her loss and shouldnt  be threatening to repossess her home.
BoI wasnt  willing  to extend the term of the mortgage. It said the capital  was due for 
repayment. It said Mrs D was a professional landlord with a portfolio of around 20 properties 
 so she was aware of how this mortgage worked  and wasnt  without options to repay it. 
BoI said it had tried many times  to discuss things with Mrs D, but either hadnt been  able to 
contact her or she hadnt provided it with information. It said it finally  received all the 
information it needed in early 2018. It then declined Mrs Ds application for a term extension, 
because it didnt think she had a strategy  for repaying the mortgage  at the end of any 
extended term. BoI was also concerned  about whether Mrs D was living in the property. It 
said it had been  trying to discuss matters  with Mrs D for several years and she had had time 
to explore her options. As she hadnt made any proposals for repayment, it had acted 
reasonably in starting court  proceedings. 
Our investigator didnt  think that it was unfair for BoI to refuse  a term extension,  because  she 
didnt think Mrs D had a clear way of repaying  the mortgage at the end of the term. Mrs D 
didnt respond  to the investigators view at first and so she closed  the complaint file. 
But when BoI returned the case to court, Mrs D renewed her complaint and asked  for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. She also said that BoI had added substantial legal fees to 
her mortgage balance as a result of the possession action. 
I agreed with the outcome the investigator  reached, but I wanted to give the parties one final 
chance for comment before I make my final decision. So I issued a provisional decision to 
set out my thinking.
Ref: DRN63139612my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said:
Mrs D believes  this mortgage  was transferred  to BoI when her previous lender went  
bankrupt. But thats not right. The mortgage offer confirms that the original lender was Bank  
of Ireland using  the Bristol  and West trading style. Although it no longer  uses that style, it is 
the same  firm which has owned the mortgage throughout.
When she first brought the complaint to us, Mrs D said that as part of the resolution she 
would like any extended term to be at a lower interest rate to enable her to overpay the 
capital, and said that she had been  stuck in this mortgage and unable to move to another  
provider with a lower rate.
More recently, Mrs D has said that BoI hasnt kept to a term of the mortgage  offer which 
says the standard variable rate (SVR) would never be more than 2.5% above Bank of 
England base rate. BoI changed  that term of the contract some years  ago, and the SVR 
increased at that point.  As this wasnt  part of Mrs Ds original complaint, Ill say no more 
about that here. But Mrs D can complain  separately  to BoI about  that if she wants  to do so.
In this decision I will need to decide  whether its fair and reasonable for BoI to expect the 
mortgage to be repaid   and take legal action if it isnt. Or whether its fair and reasonable for 
the term to be extended  to allow  Mrs D to remain in the property.
factors to consider
Its important to say that the starting point  is that there was an agreement between  Mrs D 
and BoI. BoI agreed to lend her the money she needed   and in return Mrs D agreed  to pay 
interest, and to repay the capital in 2017. Its not unreasonable for BoI to expect Mrs D to 
keep to that agreement and to repay  the capital.
Unfortunately, Mrs D wasnt  able to repay the capital when it fell due. That means she was in 
breach of the mortgage agreement.
In situations like this, one of the factors I need to take into account in deciding  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances is the regulators rules and guidance. The rules  say 
lenders are required to treat borrowers unable to repay their capital fairly, exploring options 
which would allow for repayment and treating repossession as a last resort. They are 
required to act fairly, taking into account  borrowers  best interests. And they should also 
comply with the guidance on Dealing Fairly with Interest-Only Mortgage Customers Who 
Risk Being  Unable  to Repay Their Loan1. Ive taken the rules  and guidance into account.
Mrs Ds request for a term extension
Mrs D says that she cant sell this property  because its in negative equity. She would like a 
term extension  ideally for the rest of her life, but at least  for long enough  for the property 
value to recover.
BoI has given us internal records of discussions with Mrs D in January and February  2018,  
during which  she explained that she wanted  a lifetime mortgage. As thats  not something the 
1 FG13/7, Financial Conduct Authority, 2013
Ref: DRN63139613bank offers,  she requested a term extension for the maximum allowable   up to age 75. This 
would extend  the term to 2024. The notes record that Mrs D said she would make 
overpayments to reduce  the capital in the meantime, and would look to repay any remaining 
capital at the end of the term through the sale of buy to let properties.  But she wasnt  able to 
repay using  the buy to lets in 2018 because she believed  there  was very little equity 
available across her portfolio.  
By this time, in early 2018,  the mortgage  term had expired. BoI and Mrs D had been in 
discussions for some years before that, beginning in 2015. Id expect a lender to try and 
contact its borrower as the end of the term approached to discuss  how the mortgage would 
be repaid, and BoI did that. It took some time to get together the required information for BoI 
to consider Mrs Ds application for a term extension, but it was able to do so by early 2018.
BoIs notes record that Mrs D told it at the time that she wanted  to remain  on the SVR so that 
she could make overpayments more easily  a new fixed rate would include an early 
repayment charge  on overpayments  over a certain  level.
BoI first carried out an affordability  assessment. The mortgage rules  require  an affordability 
assessment where  theres a change to an existing mortgage  such  as a term extension into 
retirement, or a change  of repayment  type. Mrs D didnt  pass BoIs affordability assessment 
and therefore  it wouldnt be right to have changed the mortgage to repayment  terms  unless 
the exception  in the mortgage rules applied. 
This exception is part of the transitional  arrangements brought  in when lending rules  were 
tightened in 2014. The rules say a formal affordability assessment can be set aside where 
making changes  to an existing mortgage is in the borrowers best interests.  But in my view it 
wouldnt have been in Mrs Ds best interests  to commit her to the much  higher payments that 
would come with an extension on repayment  terms when she couldnt afford them.  So I dont 
think it was unfair that BoI didnt take the possibility of switching to repayment any further.
As I say, an affordability assessment can be set aside  where  the change to the mortgage is 
otherwise in the borrowers best interests.  BoI noted that Mrs D had been  making  the 
existing monthly interest payments and while she didnt pass  the full technical affordability 
assessment for a term extension even on interest only terms, it didnt use that as a barrier  to 
further consideration of an interest  only extension. It therefore made  use of the flexibility  in 
the mortgage rules  to take her application  to the next stage rather than fail it on affordability, 
and I think that was fair.
BoI then went on to consider Mrs Ds wider circumstances. It noted that shed said she didnt 
have any savings, that she had a large  property portfolio  which had little equity in it, and that 
she said this property  was in negative equity. And it noted its understanding  that Mrs D was 
in a debt management plan at the time. 
BoI and Mrs D disagreed  about whether the mortgage property was in negative equity. BoI 
didnt think the property was in negative  equity. Mrs D hadnt had a formal  valuation, though 
she believed  it was. BoIs own estimate, using house price  indexes, was that it wasnt  in 
negative equity  it thought the loan to value  was around 90%.  But either way there was little 
equity. And this, coupled  with the fact that Mrs D was an interest only borrower almost 70 
years old, meant that she was unlikely to be able to re-finance elsewhere,  either  on interest 
only or by using equity  release.
Ref: DRN63139614BoIs key reasons for refusing a term extension were that it didnt think there was a plausible 
strategy for repaying the borrowing at the end of any extension;  and because  it didnt think 
Mrs D was living in the property. So Ive first thought  about whether it was fair to be 
concerned about  these  issues,  before  I think about whether  overall   a fair outcome was 
reached.
When she brought her complaint to us, Mrs D didnt give us this property as her 
correspondence address. She gave another property in the same  street   Ill call the 
property subject to the BoI mortgage  property A, and the other property Ill call property B. 
Mrs D told our investigator  that she lives in property A, and her husband lives in property B. 
Though the mortgages on both are in her sole name  and Im aware Mrs D has another 
complaint with us about the expiry  of the term on property Bs mortgage. But she asked us to 
send all correspondence in connection  with this complaint  to property B.
The tax information  Mrs D gave  BoI shows  she is registered for tax purposes at property B. 
Other evidence Ive seen  including  credit history points towards residence at property B. And 
Mrs D is on the electoral roll at property  B, and has been throughout the term of this 
mortgage  while other  people  have  been  on the electoral roll at property A.
The terms of the mortgage required Mrs D to be living in this property, property A, and using  
it as her primary residence. Its reasonable to expect that still to be the case when any term 
extension is considered  and based  on the evidence Ive seen  I think  it was reasonable for 
BoI to have concerns about whether that was the case.
BoIs other concern  was about whether the mortgage could be repaid  at the end of any 
extended term. 
Mrs D said she would  make overpayments to the mortgage to reduce the capital, and  
according to BoIs notes  wanted  to stay on the SVR so she could do so. But, three years 
on, she hasnt  yet made any overpayments.  
And while she owns a substantial buy to let portfolio, she said there was little or no equity  
across the portfolio. So selling some of those  properties wasnt an option  in 2018 that would 
have allowed her to repay  this mortgage. And she had no other  savings.
If that was the case in 2018, its difficult to see that things would be different by 2024. If there 
was no equity in her portfolio in 2018, its unlikely property values would rise sufficiently to 
generate enough equity  to pay off this mortgage within five years  especially as Mrs D says 
property prices in her area have still not recovered  from the 2008  crash.  
Even if there  was an increase over that time in the value  of each property in the portfolio, its 
unlikely to be practical to sell lots of properties all at the same  time to raise sufficient funds to 
repay this mortgage.  
Therefore, if the term was extended to 2024   or longer  on interest only terms its not clear 
that Mrs D would be able to repay the mortgage  at the end of any extended  term, other than 
by selling this property. 
Mrs D says the property cant be sold now, because its in negative  equity. But theres no 
evidence of that. She hasnt had it valued. BoIs  estimate   based on house price indexing   
is that the loan to value was around 90% in 2018.  
Ref: DRN63139615But if  as Mrs D says  theres been  little or no house price inflation  in her area since the 
2008 crash,  then theres no guarantee that the property price  will rise over an extended term 
either. It might even fall, depending on the economic outlook as we emerge from the 
pandemic. A term extension might  well leave  Mrs D in as bad, or worse, a position  in the 
future in terms of equity  in the property.
Mrs D failed BoIs affordability  assessment and hasnt made any overpayments in the three 
years since,  so shes unlikely to be able to pay off the mortgage  by overpayment. And its 
unlikely her property  portfolio  would recover enough  to allow  her to raise enough funds from 
its equity to cover this mortgage. 
The mortgage will have to be repaid at some  point. If there is no future time at which there 
would be a credible  strategy for doing so, then theres a real risk that the longer things go on 
the worse the position Mrs D will be in  she will be older, and have paid more interest in the 
meantime. And while  the rules of mortgage regulation  allow the need for a repayment 
strategy to be waived when extending the term, thats only if doing so would otherwise be in 
her best interests.
If the only realistic option is the sale of this property,  now or at some time in the future, 
theres an argument that it would be in her best interests to do so sooner rather  than later. At 
the moment, Mrs D owns 20 or more  properties. So selling this property will not leave her 
without somewhere to live  even  if property A is her current  residence, she has other 
options. 
conclusion
Ive set out some of the considerations, including what the rules of mortgage  regulation  and 
the regulators guidance requires  and I take all that into account.
Ultimately, though, my role is to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances   
and that means  I must be fair to BoI as well as to Mrs D.
Mrs D agreed  to repay her mortgage  in 2017. She still hasnt done so. Its not unreasonable 
for BoI to expect her to do so  and theres  a cost to it if she doesnt.
And while I dont doubt that being  required to repay it now is difficult for Mrs D, and not 
something she wants to do, Im not persuaded that requiring BoI to extend the term would  be 
fair in this case.  
Mrs D cant afford repayment terms. And an extension on interest only terms doesnt  solve  
the underlying  problem   that the mortgage  needs  to be repaid   and risks leaving Mrs D in 
an even more difficult position at the end of any extended term. Mrs D has options  now  
she owns another residential  property, as well as around 20 buy to let properties.  Theres  no 
evidence that those options  will be better  later, or she will have other options open up that 
arent available now. 
Mrs D is now in her seventies, and I understand her husband is not in good health.  So its 
likely to be better to resolve their finances  now, while  theyre still able to. I think  its likely that 
significant delay   such as with a term extension on interest only terms  will leave Mrs D in 
much the same position as shes in now, but older and possibly in poorer health, having paid 
more interest and potentially with fewer  options  in terms  of her wider  property portfolio. And 
Ref: DRN63139616theres no certainty that the value of this property, and the equity  in it, will rise or even wont 
fall during an extended term.  Im not persuaded that it can be shown that a term extension is 
clearly in her best interests. 
In all the circumstances, therefore, Im satisfied that BoI acted fairly and reasonably when it 
didnt agree to a term extension. And, given that the mortgage was out of term and, despite 
attempts to do so, BoI hadnt been able to agree how it would be repaid  with Mrs D. I dont  
think it was unreasonable that BoI took legal action  when it did.
Since then,  things have  been overtaken by the coronavirus pandemic. The regulator has 
said that firms shouldnt  enforce repossession action before 1 April 2021.  BoI will need to 
take this guidance  and any future  guidance  into account in deciding its next steps. And it 
has an ongoing obligation to treat Mrs D fairly,  and it should give fair consideration to any 
further proposals for repayment she might make.
the responses to my provisional  decision
BoI didnt add anything  to what it had already said. It confirmed the monthly  payments were  
being maintained, but it hadnt received any overpayments. 
Mrs Ds representative replied on her behalf,  not accepting  my provisional  decision. He said:
The regulators rules and guidance  made  clear  that repossession proceedings to 
recover the balance  following  the end of an interest only term should  be a last resort, 
and only where  the lender had considered all available options. This meant lenders 
should discuss the borrowers  circumstances,  try to agree alternatives, and allow  
enough time for alternative arrangements to be put in place.
BoI was not clear with Mrs D that it would be unwilling to agree an extension  before 
the term expired,  and Mrs D assumed she would be able to have  an extension as 
long as she maintained the payments. 
BoIs reasons  for refusing an extension were  that there was no plausible  repayment 
strategy, and because  it didnt think Mrs D was living in the property. 
Mrs D has always been clear that she was willing  to make overpayments as part of a 
deal that would allow her to remain in the property.  She remains willing and able to 
do so.  
The pandemic has caused changes in circumstances, and in the wider  landscape.  
Mrs D needs time to understand her position in light of these changes. It would not 
be fair to take proceedings, or add fees and charges to the loan, while  that happens.
Mrs D is vulnerable, and that should be taken into account.
Mrs Ds representative said that she would like to offer to BoI the following:
A term extension to age 75;
In the meantime, Mrs D will make  overpayments each month of whatever she can 
afford, and capital  payments through  the sale of other properties, with a view to 
repaying the mortgage before  the end of the extended term;
If any of the mortgage balance remains outstanding when the extended  term ends, 
she will take equity release at age 75, or earlier if possible
He said that Mrs D would continue to make her monthly payments, and therefore BoI would 
continue to receive interest in the meantime.  If BoI was not prepared to accept  this, it should 
propose an alternative.
Ref: DRN63139617Mrs Ds representative did not agree  that a term extension to age 75 risked leaving Mrs D in 
a worse position. House  prices have increased  since 2018, which gives  her more  options. 
She now has a clear plan to repay  and would  be able to borrow  more  via equity release at 
age 75 than she would have done when the term expired. A repossession  would cause 
Mrs D and her husband  significant distress. 
Mrs Ds representative said she lives in this property, which I called property A. Her husband 
lives at property B, and Mrs D needs  to live nearby to care for him. The only other people 
who have been  on the electoral roll for this property are Mrs Ds son and foster  daughter. 
Mrs Ds representative said that Mrs D doesnt  remember saying she wanted  to stay on the 
SVR. On a fixed rate, she would be able to overpay by up to a maximum of 10% each year.  
A lower interest rate would have enabled  Mrs D to reduce  her contractual  payments and pay 
more towards the capital.  He pointed out that the SVR was originally set at a margin of less 
than 2.5%  over Bank  of England base rate, and this was changed  in 2012. He said that 
since then BoIs funding  position had improved, and therefore the SVR increase had served  
its objective. The SVR should be reduced back down  to its previous level.  BoIs  current  
strong financial position no longer justifies the increased SVR remaining  in place. 
Mrs Ds representative also said that BoI had applied £7,000 of legal fees to Mrs Ds 
mortgage balance.  As the repossession action it took in early  2020 was not a last resort, its 
not fair to charge  those  costs to Mrs Ds account. No breakdown has been  provided, so its 
not possible to know what those costs were for or when they were incurred. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the level of BoIs SVR and changes  to it in 2012  
(and whether those  changes should  since have been reversed) wasnt part of this complaint 
when Mrs D brought it to us. I dont think it would be appropriate to add wholly  new issues at 
this late stage of a complaint. Mrs D can make a separate complaint about that if she wishes  
to do so.
And the same applies to the legal fees added to the mortgage. Again, they werent part of 
the original complaint, which  was about the refusal  of BoI to extend the term. The costs were  
added after this complaint was brought  to us. But if Mrs D wishes to, she can make a 
separate complaint about the fairness of adding the fees to the loan too.
That means that in this decision Ill focus  on the end of Mrs Ds interest  only term, and 
whether BoI has treated  her fairly in refusing to extend it.
Ive re-considered what I said in my provisional  decision  about  whether BoI acted fairly at the 
end of Mrs Ds term.
Im aware of the regulators rules and guidance,  and  alongside relevant law, and what  I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time  Ive taken them into account in 
determining what I consider to have been  fair and reasonable at the time.
Ref: DRN63139618As I said in my provisional decision,  the starting point is that this is a mortgage debt; Mrs D 
borrowed the money from BoI, agreed to pay it back, and its fair for BoI to expect that to 
happen in accordance with the contract  between them.
Where the borrower  isnt able to repay the mortgage at the end of the term, the regulators 
rules and guidance set out various factors that need  to be considered. The regulators 
guidance says that Under Principle 6, we would expect to see firms  proceed  with 
repossession action as a last resort and only after the customers  circumstances have been 
assessed and all available  options considered. As such, firms  should be able to demonstrate 
they have tried to discuss and agree  alternatives to repossession and have given customers  
enough time to make  alternative arrangements.
Principle 6 is the regulators overriding obligation for firms to pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers  and treat them fairly.
As I say, the starting point  is that the mortgage  needs to be repaid. And so available options  
and alternative arrangements means  ways of repaying the mortgage as an alternative to 
repossession.
 
The plan Mrs D has put forward now is essentially the same one as she presented to BoI in 
2018  extending the mortgage term to age 75, making overpayments each  month and 
selling other  property to bring the balance  down, with  if necessary  an equity release 
mortgage to pay any remaining  balance at age 75.
I set out in my provisional decision BoIs consideration of this plan in 2018, and why I 
thought that it was given fair consideration. I havent changed my mind about that. 
BoI considered whether  it would be affordable to change the mortgage to repayment  terms; 
it wasnt. And while Mrs D didnt pass a current affordability assessment for an interest  only 
mortgage either, BoI noted that she had been keeping  up the payments and so didnt use 
affordability as a reason for refusing  the application. Rather, it refused the application having 
considered the wider  circumstances.
There remains a dispute about whether Mrs D is living in the property or not, and Mrs Ds 
representative says that she is. Ultimately,  though,  even if Mrs D is living  in this property, 
and has to sell it to repay her mortgage,  I consider that she has other options given the other 
properties she owns. And in any event, whats crucial to the issues in this case is whether  
Mrs D has a credible plan to repay  the mortgage,  and whether its in her best interests   and 
fair to BoI  to extend the mortgage term if so.
In 2018, BoI wasnt  persuaded  that the plan she put forward then  and puts forward  again 
now in similar terms  gave it sufficient reassurance  that Mrs D would  be able to repay the 
mortgage at the end of the term.
The plan relied on Mrs D to make overpayments,  sell some of her other  properties,  and if 
necessary take equity  release to clear any outstanding balance.
According to the affordability assessment BoI carried out in 2018, the mortgage wasnt 
affordable for Mrs D on either repayment or interest only terms  though  it noted  she was 
maintaining the payments, that called into question her ability to make  significant 
overpayments.
Ref: DRN63139619And I note that Mrs D hasnt in fact been able to make overpayments since  then  
suggesting that this was a reasonable concern. 
Mrs Ds representative has pointed to the interest rate. Ive said that BoIs notes record  that 
Mrs D wanted to remain on SVR,  and although  thats now disputed I think  it likely  a note 
taken at the time is a fairly accurate  record of what was discussed.
And in any case,  if the interest rate is the reason Mrs D cant afford to make  overpayments,  I 
dont think that would  make enough of a difference. This is an interest only mortgage, so the 
whole of the monthly payments go to interest,  not capital. In very broad terms, if the interest 
rate was reduced  from the SVR to BoIs best new fixed rate, it might  reduce by around 3%.
The fact that she hasnt made overpayments may suggest Mrs D cant afford  to pay much  
more than her current monthly payments on SVR. If the interest rate was reduced by 3%, but 
she kept the payments the same, that would mean that she would pay off roughly 3% of the 
capital each year. Even with the effect of compounding, that would not make a substantial  
reduction in the balance  in the three years from now until Mrs D reaches 75. At most, it might 
reduce the balance by around 10%.
Im not therefore persuaded that it was wrong  for BoI to consider that it was unlikely Mrs D 
would be able to significantly  reduce  the balance by making overpayments. The fact that she 
hasnt done so in the years since supports that view.  And I dont think the level of the interest 
rate, of itself, is what prevents her from doing  so.
Mrs D now proposes using  her buy to let property  portfolio to reduce the mortgage balance.  
But in 2018,  she told BoI that the portfolio  was in negative equity and unlikely to increase  in 
value. Again, Im aware that Mrs D hasnt  been able to make  overpayments in this way in the 
years since  2018  including in the years before the housing  market was suspended for two 
months due to the pandemic in 2020.
I think the fact that in the years since Mrs D hasnt been able to do this suggests it was 
reasonable for BoI to be cautious about use of the property  portfolio as a repayment  strategy  
for this mortgage. But that portfolio does give Mrs D a range of options if she sells this 
property to repay the mortgage on it, so she wouldnt be at risk of having  nowhere to live.
And given  the loan to value  which BoI said was around 90% and Mrs D said was over 
100% in 2018  its unlikely that Mrs D would be able to raise enough via equity  release  to 
repay the balance  in 2024 without having  reduced it through  substantial  overpayments in the 
meantime. 
Im therefore  not persuaded that BoI acted unfairly  in deciding not to extend the term of 
Mrs Ds mortgage in 2018. I think it gave fair consideration to her proposals at the time, but 
was concerned that Mrs D hadnt  put forward a clear and realistic  plan that would enable  her 
to repay  the mortgage balance by the time she reached the age of 75. And nothing Ive seen 
since, or the proposals  that have been  put forward now, persuade me that it was an unfair  
decision.
And in the absence  of a clear and credible plan to repay the mortgage at the end of any 
extended term, Im not persuaded   as I said in my provisional decision  that a term 
extension would be in Mrs Ds best interests.  It would leave her in the same  position as she 
is in now, but older and having paid more interest  in the meantime   and with no certainty  
that the property  value  would increase in the meantime. And her and her husbands health  
Ref: DRN631396110conditions are unlikely  to improve over that time.  I do understand that Mrs D is faced  with a 
difficult situation now; but theres  a real risk that, difficult  as it is now,  it will be worse in 2024.
Its not for BoI to propose alternative  plans; BoI is entitled to expect the mortgage to be 
repaid, and while it should show forbearance and give fair consideration to any proposals 
Mrs D might make as to how she might repay it, ultimately its for her to find a way to repay  
including, if necessary, by the sale of this property.  I think it was reasonable for BoI to have 
concluded that it wasnt in Mrs Ds best interests  to extend the term, and fair for it to want  the 
loan to be repaid.
BoI has an ongoing  obligation to treat Mrs D fairly,  including  by giving fair consideration to 
any new proposals she might make to repay the mortgage. But as Im satisfied it has done 
that to date, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6313961