K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund some  disputed transactions.
background
Mr R complained to NatWest on 10th August 2018  about some transactions  which  were  
showing as pending  on his account.   They were  all payable to an online betting company  
P.  The transactions totalled just over £645  and Mr R said he had not made  them nor 
authorised them.
NatWest advised  Mr R that it could not stop the pending transactions   but would look into 
them once they had debited the account.   It did that, but concluded it was going to hold Mr R 
liable for them.
Mr R then came to this service.  He said he had reported the matter  to the police and Action 
Fraud and he was convinced that someone  had fraudulently carried out these transactions.
Our investigator looked into the matter for him but didnt think  she could ask NatWest to do 
anymore.  She explained  the following to Mr R:
-the device  ID used to make the disputed transactions was the same as the one used 
to make genuine transactions in the past.
-the IP address used to the make the transactions  was the same one used for 
genuine transactions in the past.
-Mr R said he was registered  with P but hadnt used his account for about five years.  
However there were  transactions made  to P in January of the same year which  Mr R 
had not disputed.
-money from Mr Rs savings account  had been  transferred to his current  account to 
fund these transactions.
-during the disputed  transactions,  Mr R had also made genuine transactions.
Whilst NatWest  and the investigator acknowledged  that the transactions were  not being 
made into Mr Rs account with P, the circumstances of the case  led them to conclude  that Mr 
R had authorised these payments.
Mr R did not agree so the matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be asking NatWest to do anymore.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr R authorised 
these transactions,  NatWest can hold him liable.   The relevant rules say that.  However, as 
the investigator explained, its not enough  for NatWest to show that Mr Rs card was used.  It 
needs to show  he also consented to the payments being made.
I am satisfied on the evidence that Mr Rs genuine card was used.   I then need  to decide 
whether I think he consented to the payments.  I think he did for very much the same 
reasons as the investigator.
Ref: DRN62259402-there is no plausible explanation as to how a third party  gained  access to his phone 
and card to make  these transactions.
-equally, there is no plausible explanation as to how this third party was able to 
access Mr Rs phone  and his banking  details and transfer money  from his savings 
account into his current account.
-the IP address used was the same one used for genuine transactions.  Again,  no 
plausible explanation.
-Mr R says he hasnt used his P account for about five years yet I have  seen 
transactions on his account from July 2018 which he is not disputing.  So he cannot  
be right on that.
-at the same time as these disputed transactions,  Mr R made some genuine 
transactions  which suggests to me that he was in possession  of his phone.
So, based  on the circumstances of this case,  I have seen nothing  to suggest that NatWest 
has been unfair or unreasonable in holding Mr R liable  for these transactions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6225940