K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  declined his computer insurance  policy  claim. 
My references to Ageas include its agents.
background
Mr A had an insurance policy which covered his laptop, the insurer  was Ageas. He made a 
claim for the theft of his laptop which he said was in a bag in his vehicles boot. He told 
Ageas the theft took place  at 3.30am and he sent photos of his smashed drivers window.
Ageas initially declined the claim as it said Mr A hadnt left his vehicle in a secured garage 
overnight, as the policy required.  Mr A complained  and said hed only left his laptop  in his 
vehicle for 10 to 15 minutes. Ageas asked what the circumstances of the theft were and 
asked for the police crime report.
Mr A told Ageas  hed been working  a night shift, parked and left the vehicle briefly to have  
something to eat. He said hed reported  the incident  to police and theyd  told him his insurers 
would need to contact them directly to request a copy  of the report.  
Ageas didnt get a copy of the crime report from the police but said it still thought the claim 
should be declined.  Ageas told Mr A it was at a loss to understand why a thief would smash 
the window, enter his vehicle and remove a bag from the boot in the hope that there was 
something in it. Ageas  said the laptop cant have been concealed from view, as the policy 
required, so there was no cover under the policy.
Mr A complained to us. He wants Ageas to pay his claim and said hes been  distressed and 
inconvenienced by Ageas' failure to pay his claim.
Our investigator thought Ageas didnt have any evidence to fairly decline the claim. He said 
Ageas should  pay the claim,  plus interest and £100 compensation for Mr As inconvenience 
and upset caused by the decline of the claim.
Ageas disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Our investigator asked it to 
provide evidence to support its position. Ageas  said it has no specific  evidence  but believed  
on the balance  of probabilities that the laptop  was in clear sight  and not locked in the boot. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  I have to decide  whether Ageas fairly and reasonably  declined  the 
claim, and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy excludes  cover  for theft of the laptop:
in or from a vehicle unless kept in a locked boot or suitable container, all doors are 
locked and windows  fully closed and fastened, and the (laptop) is concealed from 
view. Where (the laptop)  is left overnight in a vehicle the vehicle must be stored in a 
locked secure garage.
Ref: DRN64091022Ageas says it's more likely than not the laptop wasnt  concealed from view. It doesnt  think a 
thief would  risk smashing Mr As vehicle window  if the thief didnt know  there was something 
to steal especially if Mr A was only away from his vehicle for 15 minutes.
But there's no evidence to support  Ageas belief. As our investigator  said, Mr As vehicles 
window was smashed on the drivers  side and if the laptop was left in view I think  its 
probable not to have been left on the drivers seat,  which is where Mr A would have sat. 
I think its more likely than not that if the laptop  had been left unconcealed it would have 
been on one of the other seats, in which case I think the thief was more likely than not to 
have smashed the window for that seat.
I dont think a thief would have known  that Mr A was only leaving his vehicle for 15 minutes.  
And it may be the thief saw Mr A putting  the laptop  bag into the boot of his vehicle.
Ageas has no specific evidence to support that the policy  exclusion  as to concealment 
applies. For the reasons above  I think its at least equally  likely the laptop was in the boot 
and the thief smashed the drivers  window and released the vehicles boot to get the laptop. 
Mr A has consistently said from the start of his claim that his laptop was in the boot at the 
time of the theft and I accept  what he says about  that.
Ageas cant fairly decline the claim on the basis that the laptop wasnt concealed  from view.  
For the avoidance of doubt, in the circumstances of the theft Mr A described I dont think  
Ageas could fairly decline the claim on the basis that the vehicle wasnt  stored  in a locked 
secure garage.
Ageas must pay Mr As claim subject to the policy limit and excess  (if any), plus interest as 
Ive detailed below.  Mr As told us the decline of this claim caused him stress and 
inconvenience, which I also accept.  Ageas  hasnt  commented on the award.  Ageas must  
also pay Mr A £100 compensation for his inconvenience and distress due to it declining the 
claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr As claim subject to the policy limit and excess (if any),  plus interest* at 8% 
simple a year from the date of his claim to the date of settlement, and 
£100 compensation for Mr As inconvenience  and distress  due to it declining  the 
claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Ref: DRN64091023Mr A a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate .
Ref: DRN6409102