K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1994 
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms S says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Ms S 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms S says the PPI was added  without her knowledge and consent and she wouldve 
declined the PPI if shed been  made  aware of it. But Ive seen a copy of the store card 
application form Ms S saw and signed  which included a section for PPI. In this there  was 
both a yes and no option for the policy. It appears  the no box was ticked but then 
crossed out. The yes box is also ticked and Ms Ss initials are by the yes box. So I 
think its likely Ms S initially didnt want the policy, and then decided she did want the 
cover so the yes box was ticked and she initialled to show that she accepted  this 
change on the form. 
So based  on what Ive seen I think FICL  made it clear that Ms S didnt  have to take out 
the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have to check if the policy was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Ms S got the information she needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover.
Ms S says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sick pay and savings at the 
time. However, we asked for more  information and some evidence  of the savings Ms S 
had in place but no evidence of these savings have been received. Also from what Ms S 
has said it seems  these savings were earmarked for a deposit on a new home.  In any 
event for no more than £1.00 per £100  the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Ms Ss 
outstanding monthly balance  until she returned  to work or the outstanding balance  had 
Ref: DRN63060652been paid off - and in addition to Ms Ss savings.  So these savings wouldve remained 
protected for their intended  purpose. And the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to and for 
longer than Ms Ss sick pay, freeing  up these  funds for other expenses. Overall I still 
think the PPI wouldve  been useful for Ms S. 
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6306065