K822xComplaint
The D partners are four members of the same  family  in business together.  They complain 
that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a fixed rate commercial loan.
Background 
The circumstances leading to this complaint were set out in my provisional  decision dated 
31 March 2020,  a copy of which is attached and forms  part of my final decision.
The D partners ran a farm business.  In June  2013 they took a 25-year commercial loan of 
£1,414,000 with the interest rate fixed for the full term.  In January 2019 the partners 
complained to Lloyds,  saying  the loan was mis-sold. After the partners complained to Lloyds, 
they repaid their loan in July 2019, paying  break costs to end the fixed  rate early.  
Lloyds concluded  that more could  have been done to explain  the potential  size of break 
costs associated with the loan. It offered  to put the partners  in the position they would have  
been in if the fixed  rate terminated  on the date of the complaint, with a reduced break cost 
based on what the partners might  have expected  from the illustration shown to them  at the 
time of sale.  
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my view was that Lloyds had made a fair 
and reasonable offer to settle the complaint.
I asked the parties  if they wanted  to send me anything in response to my findings.
Lloyds said it had nothing  further to add.
After some correspondence about  the calculation of the compensation,  the D partners said 
they would  be willing to accept the decision, as long as Lloyds  confirms  that its redress  offer 
remains as it was when  the indicative figures  were most recently calculated, with the addition  
of further interest  due since that date. I have  since received that confirmation from the bank.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the D partners are content with my conclusions on the outcome and the bank has no 
further comments, I dont  depart from my provisional  decision.
My final decision
The bank has already made  an offer to settle this complaint.  I think  the offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  put the partners in the position they would 
have been in if theyd terminated  the fixed rate on the date of the complaint to the bank, with 
a reduced break cost.  The award should reflect the following considerations: 
The break cost to be charged  on ending the fixed rate at the date of complaint to the 
bank should be £150,084.
Ref: DRN69251472Lloyds should  reimburse the difference between the above sum and the break cost 
actually charged  when the loan was repaid in July 2019.
Lloyds should  reimburse the difference between the repayments made on the original 
fixed rate loan and those  due on a variable rate loan, for the period from the date the 
partners complained to the date the loan was repaid.
Lloyds should  add compensatory interest at 8% simple per annum to the reimbursed 
payments from the date the costs arose to the date of settlement.
If Lloyds believes its legally obliged to deduct tax from the interest, it should send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the D partners to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN69251473COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
The D partners are four members of the same  family in business together.  They complain that Lloyds  
Bank PLC mis-sold them a fixed  rate commercial  loan.
Background
The D partners ran a farm business. In June 2013 they took a fixed rate commercial  loan of 
£1,414,000. Interest was fixed  at an all-in rate of 4.85% (later reduced to 4.835%) for the full 25-year 
term of the loan. 
In January 2019 the partners complained to Lloyds, saying the loan was mis-sold. Lloyds concluded 
that more could have been done to explain the potential size of break costs associated  with the loan. 
It offered to put the partners in the position they would  have been if the fixed rate terminated on the 
date of the complaint, with a reduced break cost based on the what the partners  might have  expected 
from the illustration  shown  to them  at the time of sale. 
Unhappy with the banks  response, the partners referred their complaint to us. Their representative  
said the partners should not have been sold a fixed rate loan.
After the partners complained to Lloyds, they repaid their loan in July 2019, breaking the fixed rate 
early. They paid break costs  of £287,266.64.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She recommended that Lloyds should  put the partners in 
the position they would  have been  in if the rate had been fixed for 15 years rather than 25 years. She 
gave these reasons, in summary:
At the time of the sale, the partners had two existing ten-year fixed  rates, on which they were  
paying break costs to exit early. The partners seemed comfortable with the idea of fixed rate 
lending and that there can be a break cost.
The partners wanted the financial stability of known payments in order to budget. They had a 
clear appetite to fix the interest rate. There  was no supporting evidence that the bank exerted 
undue influence or made any misrepresentation  that the fixed  rate was needed to obtain  the 
loan.
The partners had a mixed portfolio of lending, so they had a degree of flexibility.
The investigator didnt think the bank provided  enough information about the potential scale of 
break costs. The bank  did provide illustrations and example break  costs, but the information  
wasnt enough  for the partners to decide if fixing for 25 years was the right thing to do.
The running of the farm was passed to the younger members of the partnership,  but they 
would be in their 70s by the end of the 25-year fixed rate period,  so keeping  up repayments 
would rely on the next generation.
The investigator believed that if the partners had been given full information  about  the 
potential scale of break costs, then they would  have chosen a shorter fixed rate period. She 
noted that the partners  wanted to fix for longer  than ten years.  Fifteen years would have  met 
that requirement, and it would have allowed  them to review their succession  plans.
Ref: DRN69251474The investigator didnt agree with the partners  representative  that the bank wasnt entitled to 
charge break costs, or that the break costs were unenforceable. She also said the provisions  
of the Consumer Credit  Act didnt  apply to the partners commercial  loan.
Lloyds calculated the redress that would  be due and concluded  its existing  offer would be financially 
more beneficial to the partners than the proposed  award based on the 15-year fix.
The partners didnt agree  with the investigators  recommendation and asked  for the case to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Their representative  made  the following points, in summary:
The partners didnt want a fixed rate at all. The original idea of fixing came from the bank 
relationship manager.  It seemed to be the only option the bank  offered. The partners have 
said they felt they had no choice but to take a fixed rate loan.  The relationship manager  had 
said it was likely that rates would rise.
The partners  farm adviser was present  during the discussions. He has written a letter 
supporting the partners, stating that he raised the issue of the fixed  rate at the time and said it 
wasnt appropriate  for the partners.
The banks break cost illustrations werent representative of the partners loan, and werent 
sufficient to show the impact of different  lengths of fix. Nor did the partners  previous broken  
fixed rate loans give any indication  of the likely break costs on the new loan. There was only a 
short time to run on the previous loans  when they were broken.
The representative has made  his own calculations and disagrees with many of the break  cost 
figures in the illustrations given by the bank at the time of sale.
The choice of 15 years  as a basis for redress is completely arbitrary. The representative  
hadnt seen any borrowers choose to fix for 15 years,  so the 15-year recommendation makes 
little empirical sense. The fixed rate term should be shortened  further and/or the bank 
shouldnt retain any of the break costs paid by the partners.
The partners representative has also commented on the banks comparison of the redress payable 
under the existing  offer and the proposed  award  based on the 15-year fix. The representative says 
Lloyds in its calculations has minimised the effect  of the investigators recommendation, in an attempt 
to make the banks own offer look better.  The results of the representatives own calculations  are 
different from the banks.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done that, Ive come to the same conclusions,  in principle, as 
the investigator, and for largely the same  reasons. But Im satisfied that the banks  existing offer is 
financially more beneficial to the partners. So I think Lloyds has made a fair and reasonable offer to 
settle this complaint. 
I agree with the investigator that Lloyds  didnt provide enough information  about  the potential  scale of 
break costs. The bank  did provide some illustrations  of break costs, but the information  wasnt enough 
for the partners  to decide if fixing for 25 years on their loan was the right thing  to do. So I need to 
decide what  the partners would have done if theyd been given full information  about  the potential 
scale of break costs.  Its not possible to tell exactly what would have happened, so I need to base my 
decision on what I think is most likely, taking into account all the circumstances of the case.
Although the partners didnt have full information about break costs, I think  they understood how a 
fixed rate loan operated  in other  respects. Theyd taken  out fixed rate loans  before and made regular 
repayments over a number of years, so I think the partners  were familiar with what it meant in practice 
Ref: DRN69251475to have a fixed interest rate. Break costs aside, I therefore  think  they were in a good position to decide  
whether or not they wanted  to fix their interest rate. 
Interest rates generally were  at an all-time low and no one knew how they would move in the future.  I 
think it would have been reasonable for the partners to be concerned about the risk of rates  rising  
during the life of the 25-year loan. In my view, fixing the interest rate on the loan would  have seemed 
attractive at the time. Im satisfied  the partners  knew  that fixing the rate wasnt a condition  of lending, 
and I havent seen any contemporaneous evidence that the partners were  pressurised to accept a 
fixed rate loan. 
The partners farm advisor has written a letter (April 2019) saying  that, at the time of the sale, he 
questioned the relationship  manager as to whether fixing for 25 years was the right decision.  He says 
the partners  discussed breakage costs with the relationship  manager and the fear of them if the 
business failed in the short term. However it was put to them  that if interest rates rose and the bank 
were able to lend at a higher  rate the bank may even pay for the loan to be broken. This account  
suggests the partners took the decision to fix the interest rate after some discussion of their worries 
about break costs, and after their own advisor had raised  a caution about  the length of the fix. The 
farm advisors letter is consistent with the view that the bank didnt give enough information about the 
potential scale of break costs, but it doesnt  persuade me that the partners had no appetite to fix their 
interest rate.
For the above  reasons,  I agree with the investigator that the partners would  still have taken a fixed 
rate loan even if the bank had given them  a full account of the potential  scale of break  costs. But I 
dont think they would have  wanted to fix for the full duration  if theyd fully understood the break  cost 
risk. Taking all the circumstances into account, I agree  with the investigator that, on balance and in 
principle, the partners would have taken a shorter fix of 15 years. Their  borrowing was for 25 years 
and I think the partners would have valued certainty of their payments for a substantial period of the 
loan. They had previous ten-year fixed rates and had clearly been comfortable with them. And a 15-
year fixed term would have expired when the younger partners were  around 60 years old, so it 
wouldnt have required an additional succession plan. 
Having said that, I note the bank has made an offer of redress which it has calculated to be worth 
more financially to the partners than the redress based on shortening the fix to 15 years. In the 
circumstances, I think Lloyds has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle the complaint .
The partners representative doesnt agree with the banks  redress calculations. He sent me his own 
calculations, and I asked  the bank to comment on them. Having looked at both their submissions,  Im 
satisfied that the banks offer is of greater financial value than the redress based on a 15-year fix.
The partners representative has argued that the break costs as set out in the loan agreement  arent 
legally enforceable. I think these legal  arguments would be better tested in court. My role is to 
determine what  is, in my view, a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. Im satisfied Lloyds  terms and conditions  for the partners  fixed rate loan did say that break  
costs may be charged  on early termination of the fixed rate loan. Im also satisfied the bank  drew the 
partners attention to the fact that substantial break costs may be charged, and that the partners 
agreed to the contract in the knowledge of such risks. In the circumstances, I dont think it would  be 
fair or reasonable to conclude  that Lloyds couldnt  recover break  costs from the partners under the 
loan agreement  although  those costs would, with the banks  redress offer,  be considerably lower  
than they were with the original loan.
I agree with the investigator that the unfair relationships provisions of the Consumer  Credit Act dont  
apply to this case. Here there are four partners, and the unfair relationships provisions of the Act 
apply only to loans to business  partnerships  with a maximum of three partners.
Ref: DRN69251476My provisional decision
The bank has already  made an offer to settle this complaint.  I think  the offer is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
My provisional  decision  is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  put the partners in the position they would 
have been if theyd terminated the fixed rate on the date of the complaint  to the bank, with a reduced 
break cost. The award should reflect the following  considerations: 
The break cost to be charged on ending the fixed rate at the date of complaint  to the bank 
should be £150,084.
Lloyds should reimburse the difference between the above sum and the break  cost actually 
charged when the loan was repaid in July 2019.
Lloyds should reimburse the difference between the repayments made  on the original fixed 
rate loan and those  due on a variable rate loan, for the period from the date the partners 
complained to the date the loan was repaid.
Lloyds should add compensatory  interest at 8% simple per annum  to the reimbursed  
payments from the date the costs arose to the date of settlement.
If Lloyds believes its legally obliged  to deduct tax from the interest,  it should send  a tax deduction 
certificate with the payment.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6925147