K821x#15complaint
Miss P is unhappy how Tesco Underwriting Limited,  her home insurer, handled her claim 
made after she was burgled and with the restricted settlement that was made.
background
Miss P returned home from a short break on the evening of 5 September  2017  and found her 
home had been  burgled. She contacted the police straight-away (she feared the thieves were  
still in the house) and, the next day, Tesco.
The police recorded one gold/diamond ring had been stolen, some watches, sunglasses,  
cash, a TV and a PlayStation4. The police were satisfied there  had been  a genuine theft.
Tesco appointed  a loss adjuster. He visited Miss Ps home about a week  after the incident. 
Miss P told the adjuster  about the items notified to the police and provided an authentication  
card in respect of the gold/diamond  ring. She also told the adjuster  about  other  jewellery 
items shed  now discovered were  also missing, plus a handheld computing device. A 
discussion took place  regarding two of the watches claimed for  these were said to belong 
to Miss Ps oldest son. The adjuster noted he lived away  from the property (and had been 
looking after the family dog and his brother, Miss Ps second eldest child,  whilst Miss P had 
been away). The adjuster  explained, and Miss P, after speaking  with her eldest  son, seemed 
to accept, the policy wouldnt cover the loss of these  items.
The adjuster  appointed  a jewellery specialist. When the specialist reported to Tesco,  around 
ten days after the adjuster had first visited Miss P at her home, it was noted that Miss P had 
told it of a further nine jewellery items  on top of the nine Tesco had asked it to validate. But in 
respect of all 18 jewellery items  which were evidenced by photos  the specialist said the 
description given  by Miss P matched the photos  and generated the values it had set. This 
was around £39,000 to replace in the general market,  or £33,466  if it provided  the 
replacements. The report didnt comment on any of the watches claimed for.
The adjuster  then began making  some enquiries regarding  photos received to evidence  
ownership of the PS4 and computing device  he felt they may have been taken after the 
loss. Also regarding  a photo of Miss P seen on social media appearing to show  her wearing 
a watch and one of the pairs of sunglasses claimed  for. The adjuster wanted  to speak to 
Miss Ps ex-husband too. When pushed for contact  details  Miss P said the adjuster was 
torturing her following  this line of enquiry as he (her ex) had been violent and abusive.
Following some further enquiries, the adjuster was satisfied that there were no issues with 
the PS4 or device photos or those from social media.
The adjuster  and Tesco reviewed matters. They noted that not all the jewellery had been 
notified to the policy,  they felt there had been discrepancies and a general lack of proof  
submitted to show the items were  owned.  It was decided the claim would be settled on a 
strict proof basis only  meaning that photos would be discounted  as evidence of ownership  
and only if purchase  receipts  or similar were  provided would the claim  progress. Tesco 
accepted that four items  had been  sufficiently proven  a watch, 2 pairs of sunglasses and 
the computing device   and paid Miss P £1,232.85 (net of the policy  excess).
Miss P was unhappy.  She felt Tesco  had treated her very badly  it was nearly a year from 
the date of loss that any settlement was made. She felt it had kept asking irrelevant and 
Ref: DRN65137722personal questions  and caused her a lot of upset in the process. Also she felt it had ignored 
information she had provided and/or misunderstood what shed said. Tesco  said it felt it was 
fair for it to settle on the basis of strict proof only. It said it hadnt been  an easy decision for it 
to make and it remind Miss P of the fraud  clause contained in the policy.  It said it felt it had 
handled the claim adequately and moved  it on without causing unreasonable  delay. Miss P 
complained to us.
Our investigator noted the policy requires Miss P to notify the police of loss and to cooperate  
with Tescos enquiries. She felt Tesco had acted reasonably and had no choice but to 
require Miss P to provide  strict proof.  When Miss P said she was dissatisfied with this 
outcome the complaint was passed  to me to consider.
I reviewed the complaint  and felt that Tescos claim decision had been unfair. I said it needed 
to make settlement  to Miss P for jewellery items (but not watches) and a PS4. Also that it 
should consider  her claim in respect  of a TV and stolen cash. Both parties  agreed  with my 
findings and the complaint was returned  to me for a final decision to be issued.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally that, having assessed the complaint, I felt Tescos  enquiries were 
reasonable but that its claim outcome was not. I set out the following findings  in explanation 
of that view and to explain what I felt needs  to be done to put matters right: 
This service has long held the view that, unless there is good reason to do otherwise, an 
insurer should accept  alternative forms of proof to show ownership of items.  Thats  because  
we accept that no-one keeps receipts for every item they own. One of the forms of proof we 
do say can evidence ownership are photos.
There are times where well say an insurer can discount this type of proof  and insist  on 
receipts alone. But in those situations we usually see questionable documents  and lots of 
discrepancies along  with a lack of clarity about what was owned and/or by whom,  when 
and/or how it came  into their possession.  That isnt the case here.
The biggest  issue  I see for Tesco is that Miss P didnt originally seem to have told the police 
about all the stolen items. I know Miss P says she did but these werent  recorded.  But, 
regardless of this, we often see situations where  not everything is identified  to the police in 
the early stages of the claim. It isnt unusual or a good reason, on the face of it, for saying 
strict proof can reasonably be requested.
The policy does require Miss P to tell the police  about  a loss  and she did that. It doesnt 
require every single item to be notified  (although it is of course good practice to do so).
Importantly Miss Ps failure  to tell the police everything straight away,  to mention one item at 
all, or to advise the police of incorrect values  for the items identified,  doesnt mean shes  
breached the terms of the policy.
When items were updated  quite some time later  the adjuster said there  were  still 
discrepancies; namely the device was still missing  from the list and one ring had appeared 
that couldnt be reconciled with anything advised of before.
Ref: DRN65137723As I said above, not mentioning one item doesnt  place  Miss P in breach of the policy. Im not 
sure why it wasnt mentioned, maybe  she forgot it. But its of limited relevance anyway 
because this was an item that Tesco had already accepted had been owned and stolen, and 
which it had settled for.
Im not persuaded Miss P has told the police  about  a new ring. In updating  the loss list 
Miss P told the police about a gold and diamond ring, a gold ring and 8  10 various rings.  
The jewellery specialist  didnt identify any rings individually. But the loss adjuster has said the 
specialist was made aware  of the gold and diamond ring and the authentication card was 
passed to it. The specialist then gave a global  price for 10 rings. I think Miss P and the 
specialist are talking  about the same rings, just in a different way.
The policy does also require Miss P to cooperate  with Tesco.  I can see that at times  the 
relationship has become  fraught, with Miss P thinking Tescos enquiries were  irrelevant. This 
wasnt an ideal stance  for Miss P to take and I think the claim did take a little longer as a 
result. But Im not persuaded  that Miss Ps reluctance to help prevented  Tesco from making 
its necessary claim enquiries  or satisfying itself as to the validity  of the claim.
I know Miss P believes the enquiries  Tesco made  were repetitive and unnecessary. But 
having reviewed  what it asked for and when, Im satisfied it acted reasonably. A policyholder  
may not always see the relevance of requests made by an insurer  for example to see the 
original photographic images,  not just a printed  or digital copy  but that doesnt mean they 
are unnecessary.
Whilst Miss P has explained  how upsetting it was for Tesco to ask about  her ex-husband, 
I cant see she told the adjuster about the issue when the ex was initially discussed  during 
the first visit. Im sure if Miss P had explained  the circumstances, the adjuster would have 
been more sensitive to the difficulties of the situation. I can understand why, when this 
explanation was only provided  later, the adjuster felt the need to explore it a little.
It is unfortunate this claim took as long as it did. But Im not persuaded that occurred due to 
any failure of Tesco.  I can see that it did seek to progress matters  and it is the case  that 
obtaining data from the police can take a while. I know it has been  upsetting  for Miss P and 
shes been ill as a result, but I see a lot of the upset has occurred  because  of the burglary 
and the loss of sentimental belongings.  Tesco having made  an earlier  settlement would have 
replaced the items but not the sentimental  attachment. So whilst I am going to make Tesco  
take further action  regarding  the claim, Im not going  to make it pay compensation.
In respect of the claim I think Tesco now needs to settle for the jewellery items as identified  
in its jewellery specialists report. Whether  Tesco replaces those items or settles for them in 
cash is up to it. Im aware though that the policy has a valuable  limit of £30,000, and the 
replacement and cash value of the items exceed  this, albeit the replacement  value by only 
around £3,500.  And one watch (considered a valuable under the policy definition) has 
already been settled  for. Any cash settlement would, therefore,  be restricted  to that limit, less 
the watch settlement.  If Miss P would  like Tesco to replace her items it may be that a 
compromise could be reached whereby Tesco replaces the majority of items  up to the value 
of the limit remaining (after a deduction  is made for the watch). If cash  is paid, Im not going 
to require Tesco to pay interest in this instance.
Whilst some  other watches were reported  as stolen (including the two Tesco discounted  as 
belonging to Miss Ps son, which she has now disputed), these  didnt feature as part of the 
jewellery report. It isnt clear to me if Tesco  has investigated these  items.  In any event, 
Ref: DRN65137724watches are considered  to be valuables and my award above exhausts the valuables limit 
available on the policy. Therefore, Im not going to make any direction to Tesco  regarding  the 
watches.
There are other non-valuable items  outstanding too. These arent subject to the valuables  
limit:
PS4  there was a photo of this. Tesco should settle for it.
42 TV  Tesco will need  to review whether there is any proof for this. If there is proof 
such as a photo  (perhaps a family picture with the TV in the background, for example) 
and/or a box or manual,  for example, Tesco will need  to settle for it.
Cash  I havent seen any consideration from Tesco  regarding  the £500 Miss P said was 
stolen. It should  consider  its liability  under the policy  for reimbursing this.
Tesco accepted  my findings,  as did Miss P. As such I have no reason to change them. They  
are now the findings  of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Tesco  Underwriting Limited to settle the claim for jewellery 
(but not watches) and the PS4 as directed  above. I also require  Tesco Underwriting Limited 
to consider its liability for settling for the TV and stolen cash.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6513772