K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about  a claim they made on their ERGO Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft (ERGO) title indemnity policy.
ERGO declined to cover the losses Mr and Mrs T were claiming for.
background
In June 2014 Mr and Mrs M took out a title indemnity policy  to cover an issue  with a property 
they were purchasing. The property was bought with restrictive  covenants preventing  them 
from building  on the land. 
Mr and Mrs M took this cover to protect  themselves in the event anyone  sought to enforce 
the covenants because  it was their intention to demolish the existing structure  and build on 
the land. But they werent  able to do so because  their neighbour objected  to the work and 
sought to enforce the restrictive covenants. Litigation was never commenced but because 
negotiations failed, Mr and Mrs M took the decision to sell the property on.
They say the property was sold at a substantially lower price because  of the restrictive 
covenants attached to it. As a result they asked ERGO to cover their losses.  Specifically Mr 
and Mrs M wanted ERGO  to cover the loss they suffered  in relation to the value of the 
property itself, their sale costs and aborted development costs.
ERGO declined the claim. It said a loss, as defined by the policy, hadnt occurred. Instead  it 
offered to reimburse  Mr and Mrs M for their reasonable legal  and agents  fees as a gesture 
of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs M say they were led to believe by ERGO that they would be covered for their 
claim in relation to the value of the property because they were told the policy would  
indemnify (you) against any loss of market value.. ERGO said that this statement didnt 
apply to 
Mr and Mrs Ms situation because an insured loss hadnt occurred and they couldnt  in any 
event show the property was sold at less than market value. Rather,  it says that Mr and Mrs 
M discounted the price  of the property  themselves with a view to securing a sale.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
She said it appeared that Mr and Mrs M had sold the property at a discounted  price  so 
werent able to show that theyd suffered a loss in market value because of the restrictive 
covenants. She also said ERGO were right to turn down the claim because it didnt appear a 
loss event, as defined by the policy, had occurred. And she thought that ERGOs  offer to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs M for their reasonable legal and agents fees was more  than 
reasonable.
ERGO had said in correspondence  that theyd be prepared to revisit the claim if 
Mr and Mrs M could  provide a surveyors report to show there had been a reduction  in the 
market value of their property. Because of this the investigator said that Mr and Mrs M 
should liaise  with ERGO  on the identity of the surveyor. ERGO subsequently said they 
wouldnt be prepared to be involved in or consider anything from a surveyor because they 
remained of the view that an insured loss hadnt  occurred. As a result the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN67364812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the policy terms. They cover the following losses:
Actual financial loss sustained by the insured arising directly  out of an insured risk, by way 
of.
2. reduction in the market value of the property caused directly  by a risk insured under the 
policy;
The policy also sets out loss amongst other  things,  as:
5 Reduction  in the Market Value of the Property caused directly  by an Insured  Risk 
calculated at the date of a Loss Event  by reference to:
(a) the Market Value  of the Property prior to an Order on the assumption that the Insured 
Risk does not exist; and
(b) the Market Value  of the Property following an Order.
A Loss Event is defined  as 
All or any of:
(a) disposal for value  of all or part of the Insured's  interest in the title to the Property 
following an Order which causes the
Insured to realise  a reduction in Market Value; or
(b) actual dispossession  of the Insured from all or part of the Property following an Order 
which causes the Insured  to realise  a reduction in Market Value; or
(c) such other event  following an Order  which causes the Insured to realise a reduction  in 
Market Value
So for Mr and Mrs M to have been able to claim for a reduction in the market  value of their 
property, an Order needed to be made. Order  is defined as A final order,  decision, 
judgment or permanent injunction from a court, the Upper Tribunal (Lands  Chamber)  or 
other body  of competent jurisdiction upholding  the Adverse Interest in full or in part. Its not 
disputed that in this case,  Mr and Mrs Ms dispute with their neighbour wasnt litigated nor 
was an Order obtained. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs Ms claim for a reduction in 
market value is one which was capable of cover  by ERGO.
Mr and Mrs M feel that ERGO was unclear  about this however  and led them  to believe they 
would be covered. Specifically they refer to two communications.  One was from a Director of 
ERGO who,  in a letter to them sent in June 2016 said
 I can confirm  that in the event of a sale of your property our policy  would indemnify you 
against any loss of market value, determined  by an independent surveyor,  caused  by the 
restrictive covenants. 
The other was in a letter  from ERGOs complaints consultant dated January 2018 which 
said:
Ref: DRN67364813. I cannot see how a valuer would be able to demonstrate  a loss (to Mr and Mrs M).  
That said,  if (Mr and Mrs M) can provide any valuation evidence  in this respect (ERGO) 
would be prepared to consider this aspect.
I think the assertions  made in both of those communications were both confusing  and 
unfortunate. And I understand why Mr and Mrs M mightve been given the impression  that 
their claim for loss of value might be capable of cover- especially because  ERGO latterly 
said theyd be prepared  to consider  valuation  evidence  but then subsequently changed their 
position on this. Despite this, I dont think that means that ERGO has to cover the claim 
because I agree that a Loss Event  as defined by the policy  didnt take place.
ERGO has offered to pay Mr and Mrs M around £12,500 in respect of their legal and agents 
fees. It didnt have to do this as those sums simply dont fall into the description of losses 
provided for by the policy. So I think the offer is more than reasonable and certainly 
compensates Mr and Mrs M for any trouble  and upset ERGO might  have  caused  them  by 
providing confusing  information during the course  of their dealings.  Mr and Mrs M should  
contact ERGO directly if they wish to accept this offer.  
Whilst making this finding, it should  be noted  that the communications I refer to took place 
some considerable time after the policy was purchased so Mr and Mrs M didnt rely on these 
when taking out cover. As such  I cant  hold ERGO  responsible for misleading them in a way 
that meant  the cover itself was mis-sold.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against  ERGO 
Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6736481