K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly  declined a claim he made for subsidence  on 
his commercial property insurance policy.
background
Mr O has held a commercial  property insurance policy  since  2013. In May 2018, Mr O noted 
some damage to the property, which he thought had been caused  by subsidence, so he 
contacted AXA to make a claim.
When AXA investigated the claim,  it reviewed  a report  from 2009.  Mr O had this report  
carried out when  hed inherited  the property from a family  member.  AXA said this report 
showed the property had previously suffered from movement,  and Mr O hadnt disclosed this 
when the policy was taken out in 2013. In late 2016 Mr Os policy  lapsed and was then 
reinstated. AXA said it had again  asked if the property had suffered damage caused  by 
subsidence and Mr O still hadnt disclosed the previous  movement.
AXA voided  Mr Os policy from 2016 as it said Mr O hadnt made a fair presentation of the 
risk when it was taken out. It said had Mr O disclosed  the previous  movement,  it wouldnt 
have offered him cover. 
Mr O disagreed hed given the wrong  information.  He said there  hadnt  been any subsidence 
prior to the damage he reported  in the claim. He was only aware of settlement damage 
which he didnt think he needed to disclose.
Our investigator thought AXA had acted unfairly in voiding the policy.  She thought even 
though the relevant law was the Insurance Act 2015,  it would  be fair in the circumstances to 
consider the principles of the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA).
She reviewed the report AXA had relied on and didnt agree it said the property  had suffered 
damage from subsidence. So she didnt think Mr O had misrepresented the condition  of the 
property when he took out the insurance  in 2016.  She said the policy should be reinstated  
and AXA should  reconsider the claim in line with the remaining  policy  terms.
AXA didnt agree. It strongly disputed that the principles of CIDRA should  apply. And it said 
its interpretation of the engineers comments are that the property had suffered from 
subsidence, even  though  the report doesnt specifically mention subsidence. 
Mr O agreed with the findings of our investigator. But he thought AXA should compensate  
him for loss of rent. Our investigator said this needed to be considered  when AXA were 
considering the claim, so she didnt consider this further.
As AXA didnt agree,  the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator.
Ref: DRN62060712Given AXA is relying on the 2016  sale as the point where Mr O didnt give a fair presentation 
is risk, the Insurance Act 2015 is the relevant law that applies. This is because the policy  is a 
commercial one. I agree with our investigator that its fair and reasonable to also consider 
the principles of CIDRA. I say this because Mr O isnt a professional  landlord, but someone 
who is caught by this law by being  in a position  to rent out a property he has inherited. 
However its worth noting that whatever legal principles apply, I consider the outcome would 
be the same  in that AXA cannot fairly void the policy for misrepresentation. So Ive only 
considered the principles  of the Insurance Act 2015.
The Insurance Act 2015 says Mr O has a duty to give a fair presentation of the risk. Having 
considered what  was known to Mr O in 2016 and the 2009 report, I think he did.
AXA says Mr O knew about  movement  and the report  from 2009  says future movement is 
likely to occur. So he should have disclosed this when  asked if the property had suffered 
damage from subsidence. Having read the report, I dont agree with AXAs interpretation that 
the report concluded subsidence damage had occurred that was likely to occur  in the future.
The conclusion made by the structural engineer was:
we strongly suspect that the movement that has occurred is associated  with the 
presence of generally  weak  ground  conditions beneath the foundations  that has led 
to long term settlement.  
It also says:
 the total degree of movement that has occurred to date is in our opinion with 
structurally acceptable limits and considering the age of the propertythe indications 
are that the future rate of movement will be very slow.
The report  says only minor repairs of any cracks are needed. So there isnt anything  in the 
conclusions of that report that I think  should  have put Mr O on notice that this would be 
material to disclose to the insurer. Mr O says on receiving this report he wasnt aware  there 
was any cause for concern. I dont think that was an unreasonable assumption for him to 
make given no substantial  repairs were recommended  and the engineer concluded the 
movement was within acceptable limits.
The questions AXA asked at the point of sale give an indication  of the type of things it thinks 
are important to know about.  None  of the questions Ive seen ask about  settlement or 
general movement. AXA has said it considers  the foundation movement referred  to in the 
report to be the same  as subsidence. But I dont agree it does consider them to be the same. 
I say this because  AXAs policy  doesnt  cover damage caused by normal  settlement. So if it 
doesnt consider  there is a difference between the two, then I cant  see a reason for 
excluding one and covering the other under  the policy.
When Mr O took out the policy, he was only asked  if the property has experienced signs  of 
damage due to subsidence,  heave  or landslip.  Based on everything  Ive seen I dont think 
he could have reasonably been aware that hed have to mention the previous evidence of 
settlement. In concluding this Ive also considered that by the time the policy  was taken out 
in 2016, it had been around seven years  since the report had been carried  out. Mr O hadnt 
experienced any further issues in those seven years.  
Ref: DRN62060713So because I consider Mr O did give a fair presentation of the risk, it follows that he has 
complied with his duty under the Act. So AXA cannot void the policy  for misrepresentation. 
To put things right, AXA needs to reinstate the policy from 2016. It also needs to settle the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
I note Mr O has mentioned hes suffered a loss of rent as a result in AXA progressing the 
claim. This is something  for AXA to consider  as part of the claim settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA Insurance  UK Plc to reinstate 
Mr Os policy  from 2016. It also needs to settle  the claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6206071