K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
Although the policy was sold by another business the complaint was set up initially against  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) as they were the underwriters of the policy and 
had accepted responsibility for these sorts of sales. So, the adjudicator sent out their view 
with the complaint set up against  FICL. However, FICL has now transferred  its insurance  
business to AXA France IARD (AXA). Therefore, the complaint has now been set up against 
AXA.
So, Ive only referred  to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mrs B took out a store card in 2000. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs B £1.00  per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly  outstanding balance if Mrs B was off 
work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been  cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. I will go on to explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs B was eligible  for the PPI policy.  And Im satisfied 
Mrs B was eligible for the PPI based on her age and employment  at the time of the sale. 
AXA had to make  it clear to Mrs B that the PPI was optional and needed Mrs Bs consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs B says she was led to believe that PPI was 
compulsory and that she wouldnt be approved for credit without it.
AXA say it was never a requirement for consumers  to have to take PPI in order to be 
approved for credit and that PPI was presented as optional.
I cant know for sure what happened  during the sale and so Ive thought about what  Mrs B 
and AXA have told us and looked  to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more  likely  to have happened.
In particular, Ive been  given a copy of the credit  agreement. This document  has a section for 
PPI. I can see that in order for PPI to be applied to the account, Mrs B would have had to 
sign separately for it. I note that Mrs B did sign to take PPI. If Mrs B hadnt signed to take 
Ref: DRN65337902PPI then I cant see that PPI would  have been  applied to her account  at this time.  Theres 
nothing on this agreement  which would suggest  that PPI was compulsory.
So, while I appreciate what Mrs B has told us, based  on what  Ive seen, I cant say that its 
more likely that PPI wasnt presented as optional or that it was added without her consent.
From the information available  to me and what I know  of their sales  practice at the time, I 
dont think AXA advised Mrs B to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs B. So, for example, they didnt  have to ask 
about or consider Mrs Bs existing provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for Mrs B.
But AXA did have to give Mrs B clear information so that she could make  a proper choice 
about whether  to take the policy  out. I cant say that AXA gave  Mrs B all the information as 
they shouldve  about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main  exclusions and restrictions.  
So, I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mrs B off taking the 
policy out. I dont  think it wouldve.  I say this because:
-I note what Mrs B has told us about her employee sick pay entitlement.  However, as 
mentioned earlier,  it wouldnt have been  AXAs responsibility to take into account  
Mrs Bs existing  repayment provisions. And, in any event, the policy wouldve paid 
out in addition to any sick pay Mrs B may have received. It wouldve covered 15% of 
her repayments every  month until the outstanding balance had been  paid off or she 
returned to work. And it wouldve provided the same cover if Mrs B lost her job. 
-Mrs B didnt  appear to have  been  affected  by the more restrictive  terms in the policy  
such as those relating  to pre-existing  medical conditions and unusual  working  
arrangements. So, it seems like Mrs B could have made a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
-I havent seen  any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mrs B.
-Mrs B couldve cancelled  the policy at any time without losing out financially if she 
thought she could no longer afford  it or no longer wanted it.
So, based  on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs B was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against  AXA France  IARD.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6533790