K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC misrepresented  customer  fees shown in the 
Consolidation Statement and Valuation issued on 4 February 2019 for the period 1 
November 2018   31 January 2019  for his investment accounts.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint upholding it. A copy  of my provisional  
decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision. In short I thought  that the statement 
provided by Barclays  didnt provide clear information  to Mr V because the layout of the 
statement was such that the description  of the figures in the statement wasnt  consistent with 
what those figures related  to. I thought Barclays should pay Mr V £100  for the trouble  and 
upset caused.
Mr V said he had nothing  further to add but Barclays disagreed with my provisional decision.  
In short  it made the following points:
The figure of £73.59  shown in the investment account payments summary under the 
heading from account opening date  does show the cash  movement to cover 
customer fees from account opening.  It doesnt  relate to all fees charged  between 
November 2018 and January 2019  as stated  in my provisional decision.
Mr V holds  three accounts;  the investment account; the investment  saver account; 
and the investment ISA account.
The investment  saver  account is linked to the investment account  and is where all 
the cash is automatically paid and taken  from. This account was introduced to 
customers in September  2018  and the literature showed how the cash  part of the 
investment account would work.
The discrepancy in the December fee not being  displayed is because this never  went 
to the cash balance in the in the investment  saver  account because a distribution 
payment made on 13 December 2018 was paid into the investment  account and 
sufficient was retained to pay the fee.
If there  is a cash payment into the investment account at the same  time a fee is 
accruing the fee amount  will be deducted  from this and the remainder of the cash 
automatically paid into the investment saver account.
The fee notification  letter it sends to customers makes clear  that it will deduct fees 
from available cash in the investment account  but where this is insufficient this will 
be taken from available cash in the investment saver account.
It doesnt believe the statement is misleading  and the transactions  correctly  report  
what has happened from the perspective  of the investment  account  and investment 
saver account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what Barclays has said but I am not persuaded that the information it 
provided in the statement Mr V complains about  was clear. It has referred  to the figure of 
£73.59 shown for cash movement to cover fees in the first line of the extract of the 
statement referred to in my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN67071992Barclays has explained that this doesnt show the fees paid from November 2018 as I said 
but show the cash movement to cover  customer fees from account  opening.  This is on the 
basis that the account opening refers to the investment saver account opened at the 
beginning of September 2018.
Having considered the information provided I accept the figure of £73.59 isnt the fees paid 
from November 2018 as I thought it was. But I still dont agree that Barclays has provided 
clear information to Mr V.
 
The statement  in question is for the period 1 November 2018 to 31 January 2019. Barclays 
has referred to the previous statement which showed a figure  of £49.84  for cash movement 
to cover customer fees. It has said that you add this figure to the figure of £23.75 shown in 
the first line of the statement  extract  I have referred  to and this gets you the figure of £73.59.
But I would expect this figure to show  the cash movement to cover customer  fees from 
account opening date to 31 January 2019, the period covered by the statement. It doesnt do 
this because instead of showing only one figure for cash movement to cover  fees for the 
statement period  as I think it shouldve done  Barclays provides two figures.  
The figure of £23.75  is the cash movement to cover the November 2018 fee only not the 
figure over the whole statement  period  as it is identified.  The cash  movement to cover the 
fee for January 2019 (£22.24) is shown separately  but is again  wrongly  identified  as the 
figure for the whole statement period.
The cash  movement to cover customer fees over the statement period to 31 January 2019 is 
actually £45.99 (23.59 plus £22.24) and I think that is the figure that Mr V shouldve been 
given for cash movement to cover  customer fees over the statement  period. Instead it looks  
like Barclays has charged two separate  amounts  for the same  thing.  
I think that also means that at no time does the extract  of the statement  actually  provide  the 
right figure for the cash movement to cover customer fees from account  opening.  This figure 
should be the total amount from the previous statement of £49.84  together  with the cash  
movement for customer fees in the statement to 31 January  2019  of £45.99  a total of 
£95.83. This figure is not provided at all within the statement.
Furthermore Barclays has provided no explanation why the figure  of £20,078.49 is shown in 
the third line of the extract and identified as cash movement to cover customer  fees from 
account opening date. As I said in my provisional decision that figure isnt anything to do with 
cash movement to cover customer fees and I dont think it should be identified  as such. And 
regardless of any other  issues with the information  I think this made the information in the 
statement unclear  and misleading.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay Mr V £100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by 
not providing clear  information.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Ref: DRN67071993Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67071994COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC misrepresented customer  fees shown in the 
Consolidation Statement and Valuation issued  on 4 February 2019 for the period 1 November 2018   
31 January 2019 for his investment accounts.
background
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said it understood Mr Vs complaint  was about the way cash 
was displayed in his statement. It said that the end figure is a cumulative figure of the entire  cash paid 
in history. Mr V responded and pointed  out that his complaint was about  the information  about  
customer fees. He said that in a telephone call with Barclays he was also told that from  account 
opening date in the statement is from when Barclays  migrated  to a new system from its old platform  
but Barclays  refused to clarify  this in its statement.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt think  it should be upheld.  He said that 
whilst the layout of the information about fees in the statement wasnt clear this didnt mean  the 
figures provided for the fees charged were wrong. He said that how Barclays set out the information  in 
its statements was a business process and so something that he couldnt  ask it to change.
Mr V didnt agree  with the investigator. In short he said that he didnt  consider the lack of clarity in the 
statements to be simply a business process as the figures also dont tie up.
As Mr V didnt  agree  with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V complains about the way Barclays displayed information in the statement  it sent him to him 
dated 4 February 2019. Page 6 of the statement  is headed Your investment accounts  payments 
summary and a screenshot of the information provided is set out below.
It can be seen that there are two lines which are entitled cash movement to cover customer fees and 
that within  those lines there is a figure for the period 1 November 2018 to 31 January 2019 and a 
separate figure which purports to show cash movement to cover customer  fees from account  opening 
date.
In the first column the figure of £23.75 does match the investment account  fee charged at the end of 
November 2018 and the figure of £22.24 matches the fee charged at the end of January 2019. No 
figure is shown for the fee payable at the end of December 2018  this was actually charged on 2 
January 2019 in the sum of £18.36  because there was sufficient  cash in the account  to pay this so 
no cash needed to be moved to pay this.
So I think the first column of the screenshot is accurate and makes sense in that it shows cash  that 
needed to be transferred  to cover certain fees. But the second column which  purports to show figures 
from account opening  date isnt right.  It is reasonable to expect that the figures  within  that column 
would be calculated from account opening given  the column heading - but they arent. 
And the figures dont correspond to the description given to them either. The figure of £73.59 appears 
to relate to all fees charged between November 2018 and January  2019 and not the cash  movement 
to cover fees from account opening as described. And the figure of £20,078.49  isnt anything  to do 
with cash movement to cover fees.
Ref: DRN67071995Barclays needs to provide information to its customers which is clear, fair, and not misleading. It 
seems to me that the information in the statement which  Mr V has questioned cant  be described in 
this way when the figures dont correspond  with the descriptions given  to them in the statement.
I have seen nothing  that suggests Mr V has been  charged fees he shouldnt have  been charged or 
has suffered  any specific financial loss. But I do think that he has been caused some trouble and 
upset by Barclays providing figures which are not identified correctly  within his statement and I think it 
should pay him £100  for this.
I note Mr V wants Barclays to change his statement so that it identifies what the amounts in the 
statement actually relate to. Given he has now had the statement explained to him I dont think that 
the statement which is the subject of this complaint, or any further statements Mr V is sent, will be 
unclear or misleading.  So I am not going to ask Barclays  to change  his statement. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained and Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay Mr V 
£100 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6707199