K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold  a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) have  accepted  responsibility for the sale and by extension  this complaint.
So Ive only referred to FICL during  this decision.
background
Mr G took out a store card in 1998. He was sold the PPI in connection  with this card the 
following year during a phone  call.
The PPI wouldve cost Mr G no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
And as I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mr G 
was off work  sick or lost his job until the outstanding  balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. I will go on to explain why.
Im satisfied Mr G was eligible for the PPI based  on his age and circumstances at the time of 
the sale. 
FICL had to make it clear to Mr G that the PPI was optional  and needed  Mr Gs consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr G says he didnt know  he had been sold PPI.
I cant know for sure what happened  during the sale and so Ive thought about what  Mr G 
and FICL  have told us and looked to the documents and other information from the time of 
the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened.
FICL no longer  have  a call recording or a transcript of the sale of PPI - this is understandable 
given the length of time since the sale so I cant really hold it against  FICL that they cant  
provide us with this information. But given that the PPI was sold some time after the sale,  
and in the absence of stronger recollection (again understandable) from Mr G, I think  its 
more likely that Mr G would  have  been aware  during the call that PPI was optional and that it 
would only have been applied to the account  if he had chosen to take it out. I note that it 
Ref: DRN61827802hadnt been applied to his account initially when he was given a choice  about  whether or not 
to take PPI in the store card application form but didnt choose to take it out at that time.
So while I appreciate what Mr G has told us, I cant say that its more likely that PPI wasnt  
presented as optional or that Mr G didnt choose to take it. 
From the information available  to me and what I know  of their sales  practice at the time, I 
dont think FICL advised Mr G to take the policy out. This means  they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr G. So for example, they didnt have to ask 
about or take into account Mr Gs existing provisions or assess  if the PPI was affordable for 
Mr G.
But FICL did have  to give Mr G clear information so that he could make a proper choice 
about whether  or not to take the policy out. I cant say that FICL gave Mr G all the 
information as they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy  or the main exclusions 
and restrictions. 
So I have  to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mr G off taking  the 
policy out. I dont  think it wouldve.  I say this because:
-The policy wouldve  paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr G would  have received. It 
wouldve covered  15% of his repayments every  month until the outstanding balance  
had been paid off or he returned  to work.  And it wouldve provided the same cover if 
Mr G lost his job. I understand Mr G had other policies but these were sold to him 
after the sale of this PPI policy.
-Mr G didnt appear to have been affected  by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
which would have  made it difficult for him to make  a successful claim under the 
policy, such as those  relating to pre-existing  medical conditions  and unusual working 
arrangements.
-I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude  that the policy  was unaffordable for   
Mr G at the time of the sale.
-Mr G couldve  cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if he 
thought he could no longer afford  it or no longer wanted it.
So based  on the information  available to me, I dont  think Mr G was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Financial  Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Ref: DRN61827803Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6182780