K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold an Ultimate  Reward  
Current Account (URCA) packaged bank  account to him in 2009. 
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint and didnt think  that BOS mis-sold the URCA. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr Ms complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Mr M or that it has treated him unfairly. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr M was given a clear  choice  in taking this account. At 
this point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based on what I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened. When the parties  to a complaint disagree 
about what happened (such as here) and theres a lack of evidence from the time, I have to 
think about what I have  been provided  with, what I do know and the wider  circumstances  at 
the time.  In other words,  what l have  to do, in this case, is decide  what I think  is more likely 
than not to have  happened having  weighed up what both Mr M and BOS have been  able to 
provide me with.  
From what  Ive seen, Mr M upgraded to the URCA from a free account hed had for around a 
couple of years. And Ive also seen  that Mr M opened a separate  free account which he kept 
running alongside his URCA a couple of years  later.  So I think  Mr M wouldve known that 
BOS did free accounts. And that he couldve had one of those if thats  what he really  wanted. 
Mr M initially said that he wanted an overdraft and was told his age meant he could only 
have one on an URCA.  I dont know what Mr M was told at the time. But Mr M already  had 
an overdraft on his free account before he had an URCA. So Im not persuaded by Mr Ms 
argument that he was misled  into thinking he had to have the URCA to have an overdraft. 
Equally as Mr M already had credit  from BOS  his existing overdraft  there isnt anything  to 
suggest that Mr Ms credit score  and rating needed  improving to the extent that hed pay the 
monthly fee for the URCA solely for this reason.   
Im also mindful Mr Ms account  was upgraded when BOS started charging its free current 
account holders  a £1 a day overdraft usage  fee to use an agreed  overdraft.  URCA account  
holders didnt need to pay this fee as long as they kept to their individual agreed  limit as well 
as the overall  URCA limit. Mr Ms overdraft limit was within the URCA limit, which meant  that 
he didnt have to pay overdraft usage  fees as long as he didnt exceed his limit. 
So it seems  to me that if having and using  an overdraft  was important to Mr M and what     
Mr Ms said suggests this is the case, BOS stood to make more in overdraft usage fees  
than URCA fees  if hed kept his free current account instead  of upgrading. And I think  its 
unlikely BOS wouldve  misled Mr M into taking the URCA in these  circumstances. Overall  
Ref: DRN60206372having carefully weighed up everything provided,  the available  evidence together with        
Mr Ms actions  suggest its more likely than not Mr M chose to take the URCA after having  
been given a choice. 
Mr M says that BOS recommended the URCA to him. But I think  this is based on what  hes 
said about being told he had to have  the URCA to have an overdraft. And for the reasons 
Ive already explained, I dont think thats  what more likely  than not happened here. Equally I 
havent seen anything to suggest that an assessment  of Mr Ms demands  and needs  was 
carried out, which is what shouldve happened if the URCA had been recommended, either.
So overall and having weighed up everything, I dont  think that BOS recommended  the 
URCA to Mr M and it didnt have to check if the URCA was right for him. It was up to Mr M to 
do this. But BOS did have  to give him clear enough  information to do so. I think  its more  
likely than not Mr M was provided with information  on the main benefits included  on the 
URCA. And this is supported by him using them. 
The URCA included benefits such as mobile phone  insurance, breakdown cover, travel 
insurance and home emergency cover. Mr M either  relied on, or claimed on all of these 
benefits. So overall and bearing  in mind what Ive said about Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the upgrade, Mr Ms significant  use of the benefits does suggest  its more likely than 
not he upgraded for them rather than to improve his credit rating. As this is the case, I think  
its most  likely Mr M received enough  information for him to know  what he was agreeing  to. 
Mr M may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, think he shouldnt  have upgraded. And given 
what he mightve read or heard about packaged bank  accounts, I can to some extent 
understand why he believes his URCA might have been mis-sold. But I think  its more likely 
than not Mr M chose to take the URCA  and he appears to have made  good  use of it. So 
I want to reassure Mr M that having looked  at all the information provided and thought about 
everything hes said, I dont think BOS mis-sold the URCA to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6020637