K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium,  which  didnt attract interest.  
It covered their mortgage payments  in case Mr W was off work sick or lost his job.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold   Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application had a section for PPI. It only recommended that 
they thought about  taking it, and offered them more  details if theyd like. There  was a box 
Mr and Mrs W could  sign if they wanted PPI, which could be left blank if they didnt want 
it. Mr and Mrs W signed for PPI, separately to signing the application as a whole. They 
also submitted an application form specifically for PPI, separately  to applying for the 
mortgage itself.  They  asked for it to cover Mr W only, and he signed that form. The PPI 
form also set out the PPIs cost separately  to that of the mortgage,  rather  than as 
something that was necessarily included for instance.
Mr and Mrs W say they werent fully made aware  they could shop around or go elsewhere 
for PPI. But Halifax was only selling its own products; there was no obligation  or 
requirement for it to point  them  towards other businesses products. And so far as I can 
see from the documents, there was nothing  in the sales process that said or implied that 
Mr and Mrs W had to take out PPI with Halifax in particular, or that they had to take out 
PPI at all. Overall, I think that Halifax made  it clear  Mr and Mrs W had a choice about 
buying PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr W, so it had to check that the policy was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, Mr W wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
And while he had some benefits through work  and limited savings, the PPI covered him 
for much longer than those wouldve lasted, and it paid out on top of his existing benefits. 
Its worth  bearing in mind  that Mr W was the main earner  at the time, and if Mr and Mrs W 
fell behind on their mortgage payments they risked losing their home. So I think  the PPI 
couldve really been useful for them  in protecting their home. 
The PPIs cost and benefit was set out clearly  in the application, so I think  Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve understood what it would cost and what it could pay out in a claim. It doesnt  
look like the policy was overly expensive or bad value, and it looks like it wouldve been 
affordable for them.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out all the main  things the PPI didnt cover.  
But as I said above, Mr W wasnt affected  by any of those things.
Ref: DRN68393122This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  Halifax  didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6839312