K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Platinum 
packaged bank  account. Mr C says that Lloyds told him he had to upgrade to keep his 
overdraft facility.
background 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the complaint should be upheld, on 
18 March 2019.  Ive attached a copy of my provisional decision and it forms part of this 
decision.
Lloyds responded and said that it agrees with my provisional decision. Mr C said that he 
agreed with the provisional decision, but added that hed not claimed on the mobile phone 
insurance. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agreed with my provisional decision.  And although Mr C said that hed not 
claimed on the mobile phone insurance,  in my provisional decision Id only said that hed 
registered phones. Therefore, I see no reason to alter the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision of 18 March 2019.
what Lloyds needs to do to put matters right
To put matters right, Lloyds needs to:
Refund Mr C the difference between the Gold Service and Platinum monthly account 
fees from October 2011 until the account was changed to a Club Lloyds account; and
Add simple interest on those fees at a rate of 8% per year, from the date they were 
paid, to the date of settlement
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN66244312my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Lloyds Bank PLC to put matters right by doing what  I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66244313COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Platinum packaged  
bank account. Mr C says that Lloyds told him he had to upgrade to keep his overdraft facility.
background
Mr C held a fee-paying Gold  Service account since April 2009. His account was then upgraded  to the 
Platinum account  on 17 October  2011. The Platinum account was later changed down to a fee-paying  
Club Lloyds packaged account in July 2018.
Mr C has confirmed  that he was happy with the Gold Service and Club Lloyds accounts, so this 
complaint only concerns  the sale of the Platinum  account.
One of our adjudicators  assessed  the complaint and didnt think the Platinum account had been mis-
sold. Mr C disagreed and asked for his complaint  to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Mr Cs complaint. Where evidence is incomplete and 
matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based on what I think is most  likely to 
have happened, given the evidence  that is available and the wider circumstances at the time. 
Having considered  everything  that Mr C and Lloyds  have said and provided, I intend to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Lloyds recommended the Platinum  account to Mr C. This means  it had to make sure it was right for 
him.
When the account  was sold to Mr C, he already held a Gold account, and Mr C appears to have been 
happy with the Gold account. Therefore, when considering if Lloyds recommendation was fair, Ive 
looked at the differences between the Gold and Platinum accounts at the time.
Compared to the Gold Service  account, the Platinum  account  cost £5 per month more (£17 per 
month) and provided family travel insurance, enhanced breakdown cover - including Home  Start and 
Relay cover, as well as a £250 fee free overdraft benefit (rather than £100 on Gold  Service), with 
preferential interest rates on balances overdrawn by more than £250.
Lloyds has provided its customer notes made on the day the Platinum account  was sold to Mr C. And 
looking at those notes,  it suggests that the overdraft benefits, breakdown cover and family travel 
insurance were discussed with Mr C. The notes  suggest  that Mr C agreed to the Platinum upgrade 
because of these benefits.
However, I note that Mr Cs agreed  overdraft  limit was £400 and he was regularly overdrawn  by more  
than £250, so Mr C wouldve  still been charged the £5 overdraft  usage fee on top of the increased fee 
for the Platinum account. As such, I think Mr C wouldve received a very limited overdraft  benefit from 
having the Platinum  account  instead of the Gold Service account. Put simply, I dont think that any 
overdraft interest savings  Mr C was likely to make was going to cover the extra  he had to pay for the 
Platinum account.
Ref: DRN66244314The account  looks to have been recommended for family  travel insurance  cover as well. However, Mr 
C has said, his son  had a medical condition at the time the account was sold, which  has meant that 
hes had to get specialist travel insurance that covers  his sons  condition. 
I can see that Mr C told the member of staff, who sold him the account,  about his sons condition. And 
I do appreciate  that the decision whether to cover the condition is that of the insurance underwriter  
and not Lloyds.  But, given  Lloyds appears to have been recommending the account for the travel 
insurance, I think it ought to have done more to check whether Mr Cs sons condition  would  be 
covered before doing this. For example,  rather than leaving it to Mr C to find out at a later date if his 
sons condition would be covered, the adviser couldve  contacted the insurer  and got Mr C to 
complete the medical declaration there and then, so that hed know for sure if the condition would be 
covered  before  agreeing  to take out the account.
I note that the account  was also recommended as it provided enhanced levels  of breakdown cover  
namely Home start and Relay.  And I can see that Mr C claimed on the breakdown cover whilst it was 
a Gold service account and had to pay for the enhanced Relay service. But, that took place quite 
some time before  the sale of the Platinum account.  And Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve agreed 
to the Platinum account  - paying £5 per month extra - just for this benefit  alone, had Lloyds done  
more to discuss whether  the account was right for Mr Cs circumstances. This is especially  as he 
seems to have been perfectly happy with the level of breakdown cover on his Gold  account  even after 
finding out the Relay service wasnt included.
I can see that Mr C has registered mobile  phones  and did claim  for the recovery breakdown cover 
whilst he held the Platinum  account. But as Mr C already  had these benefits  on his Gold  Service 
account, I dont think this shows that Mr C had a need for the enhanced benefits provided  by the 
Platinum account.
Overall, I dont think Lloydss recommendation of the Platinum account was appropriate given Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time. And had Lloyds not recommended Mr C to upgrade the account, I think  Mr 
C wouldve continued with the Gold Service account   which is an account he has told us he was 
happy to pay for. Because of this, I currently think Mr C has lost out because of what Lloyds did 
wrong.
what Lloyds needs to do to put matters right
To put matters right,  Im intending to require Lloyds  to:
Refund Mr C the difference between the Gold Service  and Platinum monthly account  fees 
from October 2011 until the account was changed to a Club Lloyds  account; and
Add simple  interest on those  fees at a rate of 8% per year, from the date they were paid, to 
the date of settlement
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds must give 
Mr C a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Because of the reasons outlined above, I currently think that the complaint should be upheld and 
intend to require Lloyds  Bank PLC to do what I have  said above, to put matters right.
I now invite  Mr C and Lloyds Bank PLC to give me any further information  they want me to consider, 
before I make my final decision. This must be provided  to us by 1 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6624431