K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc made  mistakes in administering  his accounts  after 
the death of his wife, who was his business  partner, resulting in financial loss.
background
Mr D and his wife had a partnership business account with Bank of Scotland.  She passed 
away in 2014  but Bank  of Scotland did not update  the account. This came  to light in 2018 
after Mr D had received  a letter about  the account  addressed to his wife. His account was 
frozen and a new sole trader account opened.  He had to make a new application for an 
overdraft. Bank of Scotland has paid him a total of £1,650 in compensation.
The investigator did not recommend it do anything further. He said that it had now addressed  
the errors.  And that the compensation reflected this and any additional costs involved. There  
was no clear evidence  this had resulted in a financial loss.
Mr D did not agree. He said that the compensation offered  did not cover the time and work 
involved. And the trauma involved  in getting a new account set up. There  have been charges 
of £167.80 and an overdraft fee of £175. He could not access  funds while they were  frozen.  
None of this was his fault and he had been  punished  for Bank  of Scotlands error. He wanted  
the case to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  what  happened. And I understand the distress Mr D felt at receiving 
correspondence addressed to his wife from Bank of Scotland  four years after her death.  That 
was only the start of a series of difficulties he faced in making arrangements for his business 
to continue trading.
Ive looked through the information provided  by Bank of Scotland and Mr D to help me 
understand what happened. Bank of Scotland says it has no record  of receiving a death 
certificate for his wife in 2014  but accepts that it had this in 2016  and did nothing to address 
the implications for the business.
Those implications were that unless otherwise documented, the business  partnership was 
dissolved on her death. And that Mr D would then be running  the business  as a sole trader 
and would need a new account. Hes right to say that this only got dealt with in 2018  
because he raised  the issue. Although Bank of Scotland says that this would always  have 
caused some disruption whenever it was addressed.
The old account  was first blocked for payments on 24 August 2018. During that time credits 
could be received. It was unblocked on 3 September 2018 five business days later. That was 
because Mr D intended to add another party to the account and continue  to operate  a 
partnership. Hed been told he could not simply transfer the overdraft over to a sole trader 
account. So from 3 September  2018 the account was operational and I think this reflected 
realism on the part of Bank of Scotland that even though the original partnership was 
dissolved this remained a trading business that Mr D had been  running.
Ref: DRN62959982In the meantime a sole trader account  has been  opened which was also being used. Mr D 
decided he did want to use this sole account and not to operate as a partnership.  So he 
wanted to have the overdraft facility for this account.  That seemed to lead to his old account  
being blocked again on 1 October 2018   this time until 16 October  2018  when  he was able 
to transfer funds across  to the new one. The overdraft on the new account was agreed on 18 
October 2018 following an application  and he says he later received a charge card. I can see 
that he was able use his new account during  the period and that as soon as the funds from 
the old account were  transferred and the overdraft was applied he made  a series of business 
payments. And he began to use the overdraft.
I am not persuaded on the evidence Ive seen that there was a financial loss to Mr D from 
the period when he could  not use an account. But I do agree he was caused inconvenience  
and was distressed  by what happened.  He had to arrange for his banking  and payments 
through the new account. And I also agree that there was poor communication  from Bank of 
Scotland during this period. 
I asked Bank  of Scotland about  the specific bank charges Mr D mentioned. It said that there 
was an overdraft fee of £175 applied to the old account on 16 August  2018 to cover the 
facility for 12 months. But on 18 October 2018  a fee of £175 was applied  to the new account  
when the facility was transferred over. It agreed with me that in the circumstances this was a 
duplication and it said that a pro rata refund  of the fee on the old account - coming to 
£145.84 would be made. It is arranging to credit this money to Mr D. It said that there had 
been no direct debit charges from unpaid items on either account since August 2018. There 
was an unauthorised borrowing fee on the old account when a cheque  was presented  on 3 
December 2018.  I am not persuaded on the evidence that Ive seen that any of the bank 
charges Mr D refers to other than overdraft fee should fairly be refunded.
Bank of Scotland quickly agreed  to pay Mr D compensation which  it said was in line with his 
suggestion. This was intended to reflect the distress  he was caused by its insensitive 
treatment. And the inconvenience and disruption  to him of then having to switch  the account  
over and his related further distress. At that time as I say he intended to continue  to use the 
old account. He then decided not to do so which resulted in the changes  hed previously 
been told about needing to be made.
I am looking at the overall compensation here. Ive taken into account  our published 
guidelines and all the circumstances. Having done  so I consider that the amount already 
paid to him together with the further  refund  now offered  is a fair response to everything thats  
happened. I understand he will be disappointed  by my decision.
Ref: DRN62959983my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part in the sense that Bank of Scotland  plc 
should refund £145.84  of the overdraft fee to Mr D as it has now offered to. Thats  in addition 
to the compensation it has already paid him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6295998