K821x#15complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) has administered  
her mortgage account. 
In particular, Ms C is unhappy that:
The capital balance  on her interest  only mortgage increased, which she believes  was 
incorrect;
There were  delays  in applying refunds to the account in settlement of a previous 
complaint and in providing her with an accurate redemption statement thereafter;
The mortgage term ran on for longer than was agreed at the outset; and
These issues prevented her from redeeming the mortgage on time  meaning she 
had to keep making monthly payments to the account for longer than was necessary.
background
Ms C had an interest only mortgage  with RBS, meaning monthly  payments were  due each 
month to cover  the interest  with the capital  balance  falling due at the end of the term.
Ms C first raised  a complaint to us about her mortgage with RBS in 2015.  That complaint 
was ultimately referred to me in November 2016. I found that RBS had made an error  in the 
monthly payments  it was collecting from Ms C by direct debit. It had mistakenly thought the 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) would credit the account  directly  which wasnt 
happening. So it had wrongly reduced  the payments it took from Ms C between 
February 2014 and March  2015.  As a result, the account had been  underpaid.
I could see Ms C knew something was wrong and was trying  to sort this out with RBS. So 
while it was money she was always supposed to pay, I thought the bank should take some 
responsibility for failing  to ask for the right amount each month. Both parties  accepted my 
suggested resolution, which was that RBS credit and backdate half the underpaid amount 
(£1,080.95) and pay Ms C compensation of £600.
With that issue resolved  in December 2016, Ms C was looking to redeem the mortgage. On 
her behalf,  we asked  RBS to provide a redemption statement once  it had made the agreed 
adjustments to the account. 
When the redemption  statement  was provided  in late February 2017, Ms C raised some 
further concerns   leading to this complaint. She said the amount required to repay the 
balance was too high: shed borrowed around  £59,300 but was now being asked to repay  a 
balance of around £60,650. 
Ms C was also unhappy that it had taken so long to make the adjustments  to the account, 
which was preventing her paying the mortgage off  and she couldnt  understand why the 
term was now running until April 2017, when she thought it shouldve  expired  in December 
2016.
RBS said that over the life of the mortgage,  Ms C had missed some  payments, made some 
partial payments  and been charged fees  all of which  also meant that she wouldve incurred 
more interest too. So that  along  with the underpayment in 2014  which  was dealt  with under 
the previous complaint  accounted for the higher balance. It said that Ms Cs mortgage term 
had actually expired in 2015, in line with the original agreement.
Ref: DRN61210922On reviewing a history of transactions  on the mortgage, I didnt think  RBSs explanation was 
sufficient to account for the increase to the outstanding capital balance. I found a series of 
transactions in early  2014 that had led to the balance increasing. This was around the time 
Ms C was given a refund of some  overpayments (of around £738). It seemed to me that 
refund had been debited  twice, in error. And so with no apparent  justification for the second  
debit of the refund, RBS agreed  to credit this amount back to the mortgage  and rework the 
interest that wouldve accrued in the meantime. That amounted to £836.39. It also offered 
Ms C compensation of £500 for the upset  its errors  had caused.
RBS said it would go ahead and rework  the account  as proposed in August 2017. That 
would then give Ms C an updated  redemption amount. But RBS encountered difficulties in 
applying the changes to the account. In October 2017, it confirmed that the account had 
been underpaid by a total of £1,247.01 and overcharged interest of £331.13. So while it was 
showing as in arrears  of over £445, this was incorrect  and shouldve  been nil. But it couldnt 
yet credit these amounts  back to the account  due to technical issues.
The reworking was eventually  completed  in November 2017 and RBS issued a revised  
redemption statement to Ms C. This showed an amount required to repay the mortgage of 
£59,549.47. 
Due to ill health,  Ms C wasnt able to deal with matters in the coming months. She 
successfully redeemed the mortgage  in March 2018.
Since then,  RBS agreed with my recommendation to increase its offer of compensation from 
£500 to £800. But Ms C thought the bank should also refund the payments she made  after 
the original mortgage term ended. RBS was only willing  to refund half of those payments,  as 
it said she couldve repaid  the mortgage and continued to query any bank errors by way of 
the ongoing complaint. 
So unable to reach agreement on this, it was left for me to decide a fair way for the bank to 
put things right.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ms Cs complaint last month, setting out why I thought it 
should be upheld.  I said:
To recap very briefly, RBS has accepted that Ms Cs mortgage  balance remained 
higher than it ought to have been   even after the first complaint. So when Ms C was, 
belatedly, given a redemption statement in February 2017, the amount she was told to 
repay the account was incorrect. 
Ive previously explained to both parties that I think the amounts RBS credited to the 
account to rectify this appeared to be correct. Most significantly in this respect, they 
restored the balance back to £59,549.47. This represented a relatively  small increase  
from the original capital amount Ms C borrowed (£59,312.43)  which  I thought could 
legitimately be explained by the late and missed payments, additional charges and 
interest that the bank had previously pointed  to. Ive reviewed everything afresh, and 
still consider that to be the case.
Ref: DRN61210923So I think the only outstanding issues for me to consider relate  to how Ms C is 
compensated for the wider  impact this matter has had on her. Firstly,  the issue  of 
whether RBS should reimburse Ms C for the mortgage payments  she continued to 
make between the scheduled  end of the mortgage  term until she redeemed the 
mortgage in March 2018. And second, whether  £800 still represents fair compensation 
for the trouble and upset  this matter has caused  her.
I think firstly its worth  clarifying the end date of Ms Cs mortgage  in other words, 
when the capital balance originally fell due. The banks  records  show  this to be March 
2015. I think some confusion may have arisen  over the term quoted in a mortgage 
change offer in 2004. But that paperwork quoted the original term, rather  than the 
remaining term. So I agree with RBS that the term was always  supposed to end in 
March 2015. 
In the event, Ms C repaid  her mortgage  three years later, in March  2018  with 
monthly payments  falling due each month in the meantime. Ms C doesnt think its fair 
for RBS to retain these payments. She says she had the funds required to repay the 
capital balance when  it fell due, and wouldve done  so if RBS had told her the right 
amount she needed to pay.
RBS has already accepted some responsibility in this respect, in that its agreed to 
refund half of the payments Ms C made  to the account during this period. But it doesnt 
think it should refund all of them, as Ms C couldve taken steps to minimise her losses.  
In other  words, she couldve paid off the outstanding capital balance  regardless of 
whether she thought it was right or not  and sought  to challenge the figures through 
the complaint  with us. 
I appreciate RBSs points  here. But given the particular  circumstances here,  I dont 
think Ms Cs actions were unreasonable  and as a result, I think  RBS should  
reimburse her for the payments she made  to the account beyond its scheduled end 
date. Ill explain why.
As summarised above, theres been quite a number of errors on RBSs  part when its 
come to calculating both Ms Cs mortgage balance and her monthly  payments. Ms C 
spent a couple of years in debate with RBS about the original issues  which  were  
down to mistakes made by the bank  during which,  it refused to accept Ms Cs 
assertion that it had done something wrong. Those errors were compounded by further  
problems and delays  in applying the settlement,  with complications arising over 
different records of transactions on the account. So its hardly surprising that Ms C was 
reluctant to trust the figures shed been provided  with.
I recognise RBSs point that Ms C retained the right to challenge  any apparent 
inaccuracies with the figures through us  especially  as she had an open complaint 
with us at the time. In effect, what its saying here is that Ms C shouldve just paid what  
RBS told her to pay  and then sought  to reclaim any overpayment through us later.  
But I dont think its fair to have expected Ms C to do that. In this respect, its worth 
bearing in mind that were not talking  about a few pounds difference  here or there  
the balance Ms C ended up having to pay to redeem the account is some  £3,000  lower  
than it was when  the term reached its end in 2015.  
Ref: DRN61210924Its also worth noting that the funds used to repay  the balance  had been  set up in a 
separate account by Ms Cs late father, and were held by her mother. On the basis  
that around £59,000 had been borrowed, that was the amount set aside to repay  the 
mortgage. While it had increased somewhat over the years,  due to interest accruing, 
this was only £61,000 by the time Ms C came to repay the mortgage  in 2018. In other  
words, she didnt actually  have sufficient surplus funds to simply pay RBS what  it was 
asking for in 2015  or until a reduced  figure was provided once the initial complaint 
was resolved in 2017.
And even  by 2017, the bank was still asking Ms C to pay around £1,000 more than 
turned out to be necessary. Thats a substantial amount of money  to ask someone to 
part with, on the basis that theyll get it back later if they can prove  they shouldnt  have 
paid it. Again, given  all that Ms C had been  through I think  she was understandably  
anxious about what it might take to get that money  back.
Ultimately, RBS shouldve  been  able to provide Ms C with clear and accurate 
information about what she needed  to pay  rather than requiring her to pay it more  
than it was entitled to and rely on it to refund her any erroneously claimed amounts 
down the line. I think Ms C took reasonable steps while  the issues were ongoing  
maintaining the payments shed always been expected to make until the matter was 
resolved. 
As RBS has accepted  that the delays in resolving the matter were  down to things it did 
wrong, I think its fair that it covers the financial losses Ms C incurred  as a result. For 
the reasons Ive explained, I think that fairly  includes the payments she was making 
towards the mortgage after its scheduled end date. I should point out, though,  that the 
DWP contributed to Ms Cs mortgage payments  amounts  which I cant fairly  ask the 
bank to now give to Ms C.
Ive also reviewed the proposed compensation amount for the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused  Ms C. When I reviewed things  in February 2018,  I thought  £800 
represented a fair amount, and the bank agreed. I was particularly conscious that:
The matter had been going  on a number of years and while  wed already 
awarded compensation in respect  of issues raised within  the first complaint, 
these further issues  would only have compounded  the level of trouble and 
upset caused.
Since an apparent  resolution to the first complaint was agreed  in 2016, thered 
been significant delays in reworking  the account   and further delays and 
errors had then occurred. 
While  RBS did then agree to rework the account,  that took a further few months 
to arrange.
During that time, Ms C was suffering from ill health and these matters would 
only have caused her further  anxiety during an already difficult  time.
With the matter ongoing, RBS wrote to her in July 2017 with a demand for 
repayment of the outstanding capital balance  without any proposals from her, 
it said it may initiate legal action to recover  the debt.
Ref: DRN61210925All those  points are still relevant, and I still think  Ms C has suffered a significant level of 
unnecessary trouble  and upset as a result of RBSs actions. But little has changed  
since I reached the figure of £800 that makes me think a higher award would be 
necessary  Ms C paid off the mortgage  the following month. So I still think it would be 
fair for RBS to pay Ms C compensation of £800, in addition to the refund of payments 
Ive proposed above.
Both Ms C and RBS accepted my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with nothing further to consider from either side, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So this decision confirms the findings and settlement I 
proposed in my provisional decision,  as set out above.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Cs complaint  and require The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to:
Reimburse Ms C for the payments she made  to the mortgage after its scheduled end 
date (which I understand to be 12 March 2015) until it was redeemed; and
Pay Ms C compensation  of £800.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6121092