K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  delayed making repairs to his car under his 
motor insurance policy  and didnt provide him with a replacement car when  he needed this. 
background
Mr E said Ageas caused delays in getting his car repaired  following an incident.  Also,  he 
said it wouldnt provide  him with a replacement car and so he couldnt release his own car 
for repair, causing more  delay. Then,  when he was going abroad, the repairer came to 
collect his car but didnt  bring a replacement.  So Mr E didnt  release  his car. He wanted  an 
apology. 
Ageas said it had apologised for the delays  and waived half the £650  policy  excess. It said it 
had offered a taxi to take Mr E to the airport. Ageas  said Mr Es car was repaired and a 
replacement car was provided when he returned from abroad.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought 
Ageas apology and compensation for the delays  in making repairs was fair and reasonable. 
But she thought  Ageas should have provided Mr E with a replacement car earlier and offered 
a better  solution to suit his needs.  She thought it should apologise and offer Mr E £150  
compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Ageas replied that it had offered a reasonable solution when it was made aware of Mr Es 
needs. It said it wouldnt have provided a replacement car that would be used for one trip 
and then be left at the airport  for two weeks. It said it was for Mr E to mitigate  his losses. It 
asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has agreed  that it had caused  avoidable  delays in the claim by not instructing an 
approved repairer  earlier. It apologised and offered to waive half Mr Es policy  excess  by 
way of compensation for this. Mr E appears  to have accepted this offer,  and I think its fair 
and reasonable as its in line with what Id require in similar circumstances. So I wont  
consider this point  further.
Mr Es car is now repaired. So whats left for me to consider is Ageas provision of a 
replacement car whilst the repairs were being  made  and the impact this had. Our approach  
in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Section 11 on page 31 of Mr Es policy states  what provision is made  for courtesy  or hire 
vehicles. It says, 
After an incident covered by your policy,  and if your vehicle is repaired by an approved 
repairer, a standard vehicle will be provided whilst your vehicle is repaired.
A standard  vehicle will, as a minimum, be a small,  1.0L vehicle with 3 doors.
Ref: DRN69422902Mr E thought  hed been promised an upgraded car following the further delays in his repairs 
being made. But I cant see that this is provided by the policy. Ive looked at Ageas  notes  
and I cant see that this was ever offered  to Mr E. So I cant say that Ageas should have 
provided an upgraded car. 
I think, according to the policy terms, it was for Ageas to ensure that a replacement car was 
provided whilst Mr Es car was being repaired.  Ageas  said that it wouldnt have provided a 
replacement car if it had known that Mr E intended  to leave it at the airport whilst he was 
abroad. It said that he wasnt  transparent  about  his needs. 
Ive looked at Ageas notes and I can see that Mr E told Ageas that he was away with work  
for a week  and a half and that he needed a car. Ageas  then didnt know that Mr E was going 
abroad and that he needed a car to get to and from the airport.  I cant see that the policy  
requires Mr E to inform Ageas of his intentions.  And, whilst I think its reasonable to expect  
Mr E to mitigate  his losses, I dont think this was raised with him at the time or that Mr E had 
misled Ageas. 
After waiting for a month to be contacted by the instructed repairer, Mr E called Ageas for an 
update. He said he was going  away in two days.  Ageas arranged for the repairer to collect  
Mr Es car and it said a replacement car would be delivered later that day. But Mr E wouldnt 
release his car until he had the replacement  car. 
Given his history with the claim  and previous  doubts  about the ability  of the repairers to 
provide a replacement car, I dont think this was unreasonable. As it turned out, the repairer 
then told Ageas that the hire company couldnt  provide a car. 
I cant see from Ageas notes that this meant  the hire company had no cars available  at all. I 
think Ageas  could then have  looked  at other options such  as a different hire company  or a 
different car class. That would then, arguably, have allowed Mr E to release his car and the 
repairs could then have  been made. 
But it was then that Mr Es broker told Ageas that Mr E was going  abroad on holiday that 
afternoon. I think this was incorrect as Mr E had already told Ageas that he was going away 
for work and I can see that he intended  to leave the next day. 
I think Ageas  then reasonably offered Mr E the option of a taxi to and from the airport.  It said 
the car could  be repaired  whilst he was away. But it was then too late for Mr E to arrange  
this and he decided  to drive his own car to the airport.  When  he returned, it took, as far as I 
can see, over a month for the car to be taken for repair.  
So I think Ageas  could have looked at other options  to provide Mr E with a replacement  car. I 
think that Ageas  not providing  the replacement car as required by the policy terms and 
conditions did cause  further delays in getting Mr Es car repaired and caused Mr E upset and 
frustration. The investigator  recommended  that Ageas pay Mr E £150  compensation for this. 
And I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar  circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Ageas Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr E £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling  of 
his claim.  
Ref: DRN69422903Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6942290