K822xcomplaint and background 
Mr N says National Westminster Bank Plc didnt  make  him aware  that a cheque he paid in 
had been returned unpaid  over a year later. It just reversed the payment. He says the bank 
must not be able to debit his account like this after so long.
In its final response letter  the bank explained the cheque was paid with recourse, meaning 
the amount could  be debited if the cheque subsequently became unpaid, and this could be 
up to seven years later.  It did agree the service provided when  Mr N called in wasnt  good 
enough and said feedback had been given.
Mr N was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint  to us. Our investigator  
explained that as an international payment the cheque  was negotiated so it was credited to 
Mr Ns account, after exchange rate conversion, and the bank wouldnt  know  if the cheque 
would be paid, or returned unpaid.  But she felt the service Mr N received was poor and this 
added to the issue Mr N was facing so she recommended  NatWest  pay him £600  
compensation. 
The bank accepted this recommendation. Mr N disagreed saying, in summary, he cannot 
believe the bank  can recall a payment made to his account more than a year ago. 
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint in part. I asked  Mr N and NatWest to let me have any more  
information by 19 December 2019  before I made a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here) Ive reached my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence  we do 
have and the wider  circumstances. As an independent and impartial  organisation we dont 
act on behalf of either consumers or banks  - theres  no benefit for us to find in the favour of 
one party over the other.
NatWest responded  to my provisional decision agreeing  to settle the complaint as Id set out,  
noting that it planned to offset the compensation payment against Mr Ns debt.  
Mr N disagreed with my provisional  decision, saying he was clearly a victim of the banks 
mistakes. Whilst he provided  no new evidence,  he raised a number of points  and I have 
considered them all carefully. In keeping with our role as an informal  dispute  resolution 
service, I will comment here only on those  I consider  relevant to the outcome.  
Mr N maintains that at no time did the bank  explain the terms of banking a foreign check,  nor 
did he receive any documentation warning of him of any returns. I cant know what was said 
when Mr N paid in the cheque, but for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision I think 
its most  likely the process was explained to him. And whilst he says he never  received  the 
documentation, the bank has been  able to evidence it was sent so I cant hold it liable for the 
non-receipt.
Mr N says I havent been given any documents from the bank  but it provided the 
confirmation document it sent him after he paid the cheque in, as well as a sample of the 
Ref: DRN63019262Terms for the Negotiation and Collection of Foreign  Cheques. These were shared with Mr N 
before the provisional decision was issued.
Mr N also referred  to getting copies of his calls to the bank that would support what  hes 
said. I disagree they would change the outcome. The calls were  made  after the bank  had 
debited his account when the cheque was retuned unpaid, and when he was trying to find 
out what had happened. But it is not is dispute that Mr N received poor service  when he 
called to find out why his account was overdrawn. This was covered in my provisional 
decision. The bank  accepts that it handled his queries badly  at first and this is recognised  in 
the award I am making. 
Unfortunately whilst Mr N appears to have been a victim of a scam, he had the benefit  of the 
money and the bank  never received payment for this, so it is entitled to seek  payment of the 
debt from him. 
As I said my provisional decision, I accept that the banks service  failed  at times - on the 
phone calls and with the date error in the letter.  But, I think, on balance, that its most likely  it 
accepted and processed the cheque in line with its standard procedures so I cant  fairly hold 
it liable  for the debt.  I would however remind it of its obligations to treat Mr N positively and 
sympathetically when  it discusses a settlement plan, particularly in these circumstances.  
Mr N needs to contact  the person who wrote him the cheque to try to recover  any money  he 
is owed.
I know Mr N will be disappointed and frustrated. But after reviewing  his additional comments,  
for the reasons explained above I have found no reason to change  the outcome I set out in 
my provisional decision. It may be that Mr N wants to take things further through  other 
routes. But my decision will bring  to an end what we, in trying to resolve his dispute  with 
NatWest informally, can do for Mr N. 
putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc agreed  to pay £600  to compensate Mr N for the trouble its 
service failings caused him. It said it would credit Mr Ns account to reduce the debt 
outstanding, but I am awarding  that the payment should be sent directly  to Mr N in order that 
he is compensated for the banks service  failings.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint in part. National  Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr N 
£600 in full and final settlement of this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63019263copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr N says National  Westminster Bank Plc didnt  make him aware  that a cheque he paid in had been 
returned unpaid  over a year later. It just reversed  the payment. He says the bank must  not be able to 
debit his account like this after so long.
background 
Mr N paid in a cheque in one of the banks branches in February  2018. It was returned unpaid  so the 
money was debited from his account in March 2019. Mr N says he only discovered  this after logging 
on to his online banking,  and when he first called the bank it couldnt explain what  had happened. He 
points out the letter the bank has supplied showing  that it notified  him was dated  February 2018.  And 
he asks why there had been no investigation into the fraudulent  cheque. 
In its final response letter the bank explained the cheque was paid with recourse, meaning the 
amount could  be debited if the cheque subsequently became  unpaid,  and this could be up to seven 
years later. So it had made no error. It explained  that the difference between  the amount credited  and 
the amount debited was due to the difference in exchange rate, plus any charges incurred.  It said it 
had sent a letter of notification  and cant be held liable for the non-receipt.  It did agree  the service 
provided when Mr N called in wasnt good enough and said feedback had been  given.
Mr N was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator explained that 
as an international payment  the cheque was negotiated so it was credited  to Mr Ns account, after 
exchange rate conversion, and the bank wouldnt know if the cheque  would be paid, or returned 
unpaid. Our investigator said whilst it was a long time after in this case, as Mr N had the benefit of the 
money, and the bank  didnt receive  payment,  it was reasonable to ask Mr N to repay  it. She said the 
notification letter was from the month the money was deposited so it wasnt clear when  he was told. 
She said the bank hadnt opened a fraud enquiry but that would be the responsibility of the drawee 
bank. Overall, she felt the service Mr N received  was poor and this added  to the issue Mr N was 
facing so she recommended NatWest pay him £600 compensation. 
The bank accepted this recommendation.  Mr N disagreed saying, in summary, he cannot  believe the 
bank can recall  a payment  made to his account more than a year ago. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have 
based my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely  to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances.
Im currently  planning to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
 
the cheque
Cheques drawn on an overseas bank dont follow the usual UK cheque clearing process.
When presented with a foreign cheque, a UK bank will decide whether its prepared to
accept the cheque by negotiation  or collection.  In this case it was by negotiation,  and that is the 
banks decision. A negotiated cheque is one on which the bank gives value  for the cheque  funds  on 
the assumption it will clear. While that gives certainty about the exchange rate that will apply, it 
presents a potential risk to both the bank and the customer, in the event  the cheque  is returned 
unpaid. And this can be for up to seven years, as the bank  set out in its final response letter. 
NatWest says its adviser wouldve explained  this. Its internal process map shows Mr N would have 
completed and signed (and been given the customer copy) of its Terms for the Negotiation and 
Ref: DRN63019264Collection of Foreign Cheques . Ive reviewed a sample  of this document. It sets out that such cheques 
are dealt with on the basis that the customer authorises the bank to debit their account, in the event  
that any cheque is subsequently returned  unpaid, with the amount credited  to their account  plus any 
losses, cost, expenses  or charges which  it may have incurred. 
NatWest cant  provide a copy of Mr Ns form, so I cant be certain  he completed one. But its internal 
process map that shows such a form needs to be completed prior to an international cheque being  
accepted. So I think, on balance, its likely this form was completed by Mr N. The process  document 
also tells the adviser to warn customers that there can be long delays  in foreign checks being unpaid.  
The bank has been able to provide a copy of the confirmation document  it sent Mr N after he paid the 
cheque in. This warned of the possibility of late returns, giving some of the likely reasons and 
referencing the uncertainty of cross-border cheque clearing times.  Whilst it makes clear on its website 
this could  be for a maximum of up to seven years, I think it would be helpful  to signpost customers  to 
this information in the letter. Mr N says he never received this but I cant fairly hold the bank liable  for 
the non-receipt. Overall, I cant find the bank has made any errors in how it has handled the cheque. I 
know this will be very disappointing for Mr N but the bank has the right to reclaim the money if the 
cheque is returned unpaid, as it was. Mr N would need to contact the person who gave him the 
cheque to try to recover any money  he is owed.
fraud investigation
As our investigator explained, as the drawee bank returned the cheque  unpaid with the reason fraud 
it would need to decide whether or not look into this further, not NatWest. So I dont find NatWest was 
at fault for not carrying  out a fraud enquiry.
the notification letter & customer service
The bank has explained that the date field on the notification letter is manually amended  so it seems  
the February 2018 date was an administrative error. And whilst this is poor service I think its a 
plausible explanation for what Mr N perceives to be a backdated letter. 
Like our investigator,  I think the bank should have known  what was going on when Mr N called in 
March 2019. I can understand  why the lack of knowledge was stressful for Mr N given the sum of 
money involved.
So, in summary, I am currently minded to uphold Mr Ns complaint in part. I can find no grounds to 
instruct NatWest to write off the debt as he wishes. I can find no evidence of any errors it made  whilst 
processing the cheque. It was entitled to debit the value of the returned cheque, plus any charges. 
However I do agree its service and communication was weak,  with a date error on the letter and an 
initial lack of clarity when Mr N called to ask what was happening. The bank has agreed to pay £600 
to compensate Mr N for the trouble this caused him, and Im not planning to change  that award.  
my provisional  decision
I am planning  to uphold this complaint in part and order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr N 
compensation as set out above.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6301926