K821x#15complaint
Mr H says a car he acquired  on finance provided  by Close Brothers Limited was not of 
satisfactory quality.
background
Mr H acquired  a car through a conditional sale agreement provided by Close  Brothers in 
October 2017. He told us that, within the first month,  he began  to experience a number of 
significant problems  with the car. Most of these were  resolved by the dealership. But one 
problem  an intermittent  tendency for the engine to cut out  remained.
Mr H contacted Close Brothers in February  2018 to notify them  of the difficulties  he was 
experiencing. It arranged for the car to be examined  by an independent expert. This took 
place in March  2018 and it didnt  succeed in identifying any faults with the car. Mr H 
arranged for his own inspection to be carried out. But before the scheduled date arrived, the 
car broke down and was recovered.
Mr H says the recovering garage told him that the fuel line had disconnected. It carried out a 
temporary fix which meant Mr H was able to continue  using  the car. He later had the car 
examined by an independent garage which gave him a recommendation as to the work  that 
would be needed  in order to permanently resolve  the problem. 
Close Brothers wasnt willing to assist and so Mr H referred the complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an investigator who concluded  that it was likely that the underlying fault 
which caused the breakdown was present at the time Mr H acquired  the car. The 
investigator recommended that Close Brothers arrange for the car to be repaired. 
Close Brothers didnt  agree with the investigators  opinion. It argued that:
There wasnt any evidence that this problem was present at the time of sale.
The engineer  who carried out the independent  inspection was unable  to replicate the 
fault.
In the weeks before  the car broke  down,  it had successfully passed an MOT  inspection.
The document describing the fault provided by the garage from which Mr H sought  
advice was unreliable.
Because Close Brothers disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been  
referred to me to issue  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The relevant  law here is the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Its effect is that, with an agreement  
of this type, Close Brothers  has any obligation  to ensure that any good supplied  under it are 
of satisfactory quality. When assessing  whether  the car was of satisfactory quality, Ive taken 
into account relevant  factors  such as the price, age and mileage at the time it was acquired. 
In this instance, the car was £2,000 and just under  10 years old.
Ref: DRN65519262I cant be certain as to the condition of the vehicle at the time Mr H took possession  of it. And 
that means I need  to reach  a decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, whether the 
evidence suggest  its more likely that there was a fault with the car at the time of supply and 
whether that fault means that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
Ive given this point careful consideration and Im satisfied that it does.  Mr H experienced 
significant issues with the car shortly after he took possession  of it and informed the 
dealership of these  straight away. It is clear that theres currently a fault (the disconnected 
fuel line) and the engineer who diagnosed  this problem in April 2018 told our investigator 
that this couldve  caused the engine to cut out back in October 2017. 
I understand that the engineer who carried out the independent inspection  was unable to 
replicate the fault. But the fault was reported as intermittent, not consistent one. The fact that 
it couldnt be replicated clearly doesnt  demonstrate  that the fault wasnt  present. I can see 
that the car did successfully pass an MOT during  this period. But an MOT test doesnt  entail  
a comprehensive  inspection of the car. Im not persuaded that, just because  it didnt uncover 
the fault, that fault wasnt there.
Overall, Im satisfied that the car supplied to Mr H under this agreement wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Ive thought about what Mr H wants to happen to put things right here 
and Ive taken  into account that there  have  been  a number of attempts to fix the car 
unsuccessfully. Im mindful of the fact that Mr H doesnt have confidence in Close Brothers  
or its agents.  He would prefer to seek the repair of the fuel line issue independently and 
I dont find that unreasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  
Close Brothers Limited needs to pay Mr H the cost of repairing the fuel line issue  (subject  to 
Mr H providing  reasonable proof  for example in the form of a receipt).  It should  add on 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of this decision until the date it pays him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6551926