K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Secure Trust Bank  Plc took too long to tell him what identification and 
residency documents he needed to provide.  Mr W is unhappy  that Secure Trust doesnt 
explain this on its website.
Mr W wants Secure  Trust to explain the legal  basis on which  it can ask why he wants  to 
close his account  and what he will use the funds for.
background
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. She didnt think that it 
was wrong of Secure  Trust  Bank to ask for proof of identity after Mr W had failed  to pass  
security on the phone.
The adjudicator thought  that Secure Trust Bank told Mr W what documents  it required during 
a phone call. 
The adjudicator was satisfied that since Mr W had complained  to this service, Secure Trust 
Bank had closed his account in line with the notice period.
Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation so the complaint came to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  After doing this, I agreed with Mr W that 
Secure Trust took too long to tell him what documents it needed him to supply to prove  his 
identity and residency.
I asked Secure Trust to pay Mr W £75 to apologise for the impact that the delay had on him. 
Secure Trust agreed to do this but Mr W has asked  me to issue  my final decision. 
Mr W wants me to explain the legal basis on which Secure Trust asked him to provide 
further information about why he wanted  to close the account and how he intended to use 
the funds. 
Ive listened to a recording  of a call that Mr W had with Secure  Trust where the advisor says 
that its standard practice to ask a customer why they are closing their account. Secure Trust 
might ask for this information for data collection purposes or to detect a possible fraud  if the 
bank is concerned that a customer may have  been  put under pressure to withdraw  money or 
close their account.
I cant point to any legal basis  on which it was legitimate and lawful for Secure Trust to 
require this information. But I also dont think it was unreasonable of Secure Trust to simply 
ask the question. 
Ive already said that I agree with Mr W that Secure Trust delayed sending  him details of 
what information he needed to prove his residency and identity. I cant  say that Secure Trust 
was wrong to require  this information as Mr W had failed security.  
Ref: DRN64678402I should also say that this service is an informal dispute resolution service - not a regulator  
that can punish or fine Secure Trust for any failure  to comply with industry  practice. 
Im satisfied that the offer of compensation adequately reflects the impact  that Secure  Trusts 
delay in setting  out the information it needed  had on Mr W. Although Mr W was 
inconvenienced, Secure Trust backdated  his withdrawal  request so that his account was 
closed within  the relevant  notice period. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Secure Trust Bank Plc to pay    
Mr W £75 compensation in full and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019. 
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6467840