K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  about BUPA Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under her 
private medical insurance policy. 
background
Mrs L lives outside the UK and has private  medical insurance cover  under a global policy.  
She asked  BUPA to authorise  a medical procedure.  BUPA agreed to this and provided Mrs L 
with the pre-authorisation  code. Mrs L went to the hospital for her procedure,  but was told it 
couldnt go ahead because a local company hadnt provided authorisation. Unhappy with 
this, Mrs L complained to BUPA. 
BUPA explained it uses local service  partners to liaise with medical providers. It confirmed 
that although it had authorised Mrs Ls procedure, confirmation of this hadnt  been sent to its 
local partner. Consequently,  there  was a delay in authorisation  being  provided to the 
hospital. BUPA apologised for this and offered  compensation equivalent to around  £250. 
Mrs L refused this offer and has brought a complaint  to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 April 2019. My findings were:
BUPA sent Mrs L a pre-authorisation  letter which confirmed  she had authorisation for a 
medical procedure.  The letter  gave her a code  and advised her to pass  this to the medical  
provider. 
BUPA has explained  it should have advised  its local service partner of the authorisation. 
Unfortunately it sent the authorisation to the wrong email address. Therefore it was BUPA  
that was at fault, rather than its local service partner.
Mrs L was advised  by the hospital that her procedure couldnt  go ahead  because BUPAs 
local service partner hadnt authorised it. She understandably found this very confusing.  
When staff at the hospital tried to call BUPAs local service partner, it didnt answer their 
calls. The hospital  said she could have the procedure if she paid a deposit, but Mrs L didnt 
wish to do this. She therefore  had to leave the hospital and have the procedure another day. 
Mrs L is unhappy with the involvement of BUPAs local service  partner in her claim. BUPA 
has already explained why it uses local service  partners. Thats a business decision made 
by BUPA  which I cant get involved with. BUPAs explained that its members normally dont 
speak to its local service partners directly, which is why Mrs L wasnt aware  of the 
involvement of that particular local company in her claim. I accept this explanation. However, 
I can understand why Mrs L would  have found it confusing to be told by the hospital that a 
local company needed  to authorise her procedure,  rather than BUPA.  
Overall, I think BUPAs  error caused  Mrs L quite a lot of unnecessary  confusion, upset and 
inconvenience. She had prepared for the procedure since the previous day, and would need 
to prepare for it all over again. Taking  that into account, I intend to require it to increase the 
compensation to an amount equivalent  to £500,  paid in Mrs Ls local currency. 
Mrs L says that when the hospital told her the procedure hadnt been  authorised,  she drove  
home in order to get the pre-authorisation  letter from BUPA so she could  show  it to the 
hospital. Unfortunately, Mrs L had a minor  car accident and damaged  her car during that 
Ref: DRN60425222journey. She says she also narrowly avoided hitting another  car. She thinks this happened  
because she was experiencing  a stomach  ache  as a result of drinking a solution given to her 
by her doctor the day before  in preparation for her procedure, as well as feeling upset and 
confused by the hospitals refusal  to do the procedure.  
Whilst I can understand Mrs Ls frustration that she experienced  a minor car accident  on top 
of the situation  at the hospital  that day, I dont hold BUPA responsible  for this. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Mrs L responded to say she accepted  my provisional decision. 
BUPA responded to say it doesnt  understand why I doubled the compensation it had offered 
Mrs L. It said that whilst  there had been a slight delay in communication, this was rectified  
within 24 hours. And it says it spoke  to the hospital to provide a verbal authorisation and to 
confirm it would receive the hard copy by the end of the day. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate there was only a slight delay in communication with the hospital, when 
we consider awards of compensation, we take into account the impact a business error has 
had on a consumer.  
Here, Mrs L had prepared  for the procedure since the previous day  that included taking a 
solution prepared  for her by her doctor,  and not eating. She had obtained authorisation for 
the procedure  from BUPA and arrived at the hospital  expecting  the procedure to go ahead. 
She was then told the procedure couldnt go ahead until a local company authorised it. I can 
understand why she found that to be both frustrating and confusing, given that her policy  
was held with BUPA and shed already received authorisation for the procedure. She was no 
doubt further frustrated  when  BUPAs  local service partner didnt then answer  the hospitals 
calls so that the matter  could be rectified.  
As BUPA points out, it gave the hospital verbal authorisation and said the hard copy would 
be with it by the end of the day. However,  the hospital would only allow  the procedure  to go 
ahead based on BUPAs verbal authorisation if Mrs L paid a deposit  of just under  £100. 
BUPA has assumed that Mrs L had the funds available for this deposit.  I dont  know if she 
did or not, but regardless, Mrs L didnt feel she should pay a deposit when she had prior 
authorisation for the procedure which should have been covered in full. I dont think  that was 
unreasonable.
Consequently, Mrs L didnt have the procedure that day and so had to rearrange it. Taking 
into account the confusion caused to her, and the inconvenience of having  to prepare for the 
procedure a second time, I think £500 compensation would be appropriate.  
Ref: DRN60425223my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require BUPA  Insurance Limited  to pay 
Mrs L compensation equivalent to £500  in her local currency. It can deduct any payment 
already made in this respect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6042522