K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  for their mortgage.
Background
I sent my provisional decision on 12 June  2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  was most likely  to have been mis-sold.  I said Id consider anything  else anyone  
wanted to send me  so long as I received  it by 12 July 2019.
Mr R sent in further pages from his oldest available tax returns to support that he was self-
employed at least by then, as well as details of other insurance policies he had at the time. 
Santander responded with further points, which  Ill go through  below.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr R sending  us his documents, so that we can get as clear a picture  as 
possible of his situation. From what Ive seen, his insurance policies wouldve covered 
different things to what the PPI did, so there shouldnt have been a significant  overlap.
Santander pointed  out Mr R had said he wasnt sure exactly  when he started his part-time  
self-employed work   though he was sure he was doing it by 1994.  It said he didnt have  any 
evidence he was doing it in 1994. Santander felt he should be able to produce evidence,  not 
least as he had some from later years.
These arguments were  already addressed in my provisional decision,  where  I explained 
I needed to be fair to both sides about what evidence I can reasonably require. Santander 
has evidence of other customers consenting  to PPI in later years,  but doesnt have any 
evidence to show that Mr and Mrs R did. But I gave Santander the benefit of the doubt there 
given all the time thats passed since this sale. Records tend to only go back so far, 
especially when its often  required or simply prudent to destroy old information.
This sale was well over two decades ago. I think its reasonable for Mr R to only be able to 
recall so much, or to only have records going back so far. Mr Rs testimony  has been 
consistent and plausible; it fits with his line of work;  and its supported by his later tax 
returns. I dont think  I have any clear reason to doubt what  Mr R has told us. So I think its 
most likely that he was doing part-time self-employed work in addition to his normal  job at 
the time of this sale.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  this made  the policy unsuitable  for 
Mr and Mrs R, and why I didnt think theyd  been given clear enough information about it. Ive 
not seen any reason  to depart from those findings.
So I think its most likely that this PPI policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN68384282Putting things  right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs R in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R back the amount they paid each  month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
Mr and Mrs R got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs R can 
claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  about Santander  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN68384283COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National)  mis-sold  them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out for a mortgage in 1994.  It was paid for with a regular 
monthly premium, which  did not attract interest.  It covered Mr R in case  he was off work sick or lost 
his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints  been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far I think this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
Both parties agree that Santander recommended PPI for Mr R. That means  it had to check the policy 
was right for him. But I dont  think it was right for him.
Mr R said that at the time of the sale, he did part-time self-employed work in addition to his full-time 
job. He provided his tax returns to show this additional  income, which was not insubstantial.
The earliest  tax returns Mr R could give us were from a few years after this sale. And he hasnt been 
able to give us all the precise details of his situation  for instance, he was unsure  of the exact hours  
spent on this other  work as the hours varied, and while  Mr R said he was definitely doing  this part-
time work in 1994, he wasnt sure which year it started.  But I think  thats reasonable given that the 
sale was well over two decades ago.
I need to be fair to both sides  about  what evidence I can reasonably expect from the time  for 
instance, Santander hasnt  been able to show  that Mr and Mrs R consented to this policy, but given all 
the time thats passed, I think its fair to give Santander the benefit of the doubt on that. Mr Rs 
testimony has been consistent and plausible; it fits with his line of work; and its supported by his later 
tax returns. I dont think I have  any clear reason to doubt what Mr R has told us. So I think  its most 
likely that he was doing  part-time self-employed  work in addition to his normal job at the time of this 
sale.
Santander hasnt been able to give me the full policy  terms from 1994. For this type of PPI policy, the 
likely terms  for unemployment claims would normally require that the claimant was completely out of 
work and available  and actively looking  for work, registered as unemployed, and/or in receipt of 
government benefits for the unemployed. And Ive seen examples  of Santander policies from not too 
long after Mr and Mrs R took out their one, which had terms to this effect.  So I think this policy 
probably did have requirements of that sort. Such terms couldve made  it unreasonably  difficult for 
Mr R to have  claimed  for unemployment: he wouldve potentially needed to lose both of his lines of 
work at the exact same  time, which was very unlikely  to happen. So it looks like it couldve been much 
more difficult for Mr R to have claimed than he mightve reasonably expected.
Ref: DRN68384284Santander hasnt been able to show what questions, if any,  it asked Mr R about his employment, or 
what tailored  advice it gave him owing to his situation.  As I said above, I think its reasonable that 
Santander doesnt still have  the documents from the time, but it means I cant be sure it sufficiently 
explored Mr Rs circumstances or gave  suitable  advice.  And Mr R already had alternative work  to his 
main job, which he could potentially have scaled up if needs be, along  with redundancy pay in his 
main job. So it doesnt  look like he really needed to be paying for unemployment  cover.
I havent seen any evidence that Santander asked Mr R about his full work  situation or took account  
of it in its advice. And Ive seen nothing to show that Mr and Mrs R were given clear enough 
information at the sale about the issues Mr R could face working multiple jobs. If Santander had made 
it clear that the policy might  not be right for Mr R, or if it had given Mr and Mrs R clear enough 
information about the unemployment terms at the sale, then I think  its most likely  they wouldnt have 
bought this policy.  So it follows that I think the PPI was probably mis-sold here.
putting things  right
I propose that Santander  puts Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R back the amount they paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr R made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what  Mr and Mrs R 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander must  give Mr and 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs R can claim  back  the tax if 
they dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint,  and to direct Santander UK 
Plc to put things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  Santander and Mr and Mrs R send me any more information  or comments to look at by 
12 July 2019 After  that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6838428