K820x#14complaint
Miss P and Miss G complain about the advice and service they received from Countrywide  
Principal Services Limited when they applied  for a mortgage. They ask that it refunds its 
fees.
background
Miss P and Miss G wanted to buy a property with a particular construction method which 
isnt acceptable  to many mortgage lenders. They  asked  Countrywide for advice. They  were  
on a tight budget and wanted a lender which offered low interest  rates and a free valuation.
Countrywide recommended a high street lender, which charged a £200 valuation  fee. The 
lender declined Miss P and Miss Gs application as its surveyor said the property wasnt 
suitable security as it wasnt saleable. 
Miss P and Miss G then found out the property  was mortgaged to another high street  lender, 
which offers  free valuations. Miss P and Miss G are unhappy with the service Countrywide  
provided and ask that it refunds its fee. They say:
the Countrywide adviser  was difficult to contact;
they were wrongly told only one lender  would  lend on the property;
they had to guide the adviser;  they went to another adviser  who gave them  more  
information in two days than Countrywide  did in three weeks;
the adviser didnt  appeal  the lenders decision to decline their application properly;
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Countrywide  
recommended a lender it thought was most likely  to offer a mortgage. Miss P and Miss G 
were aware of the fees and agreed to them. 
Miss P and Miss G didnt agree. Miss P said they were owed some compensation and 
Countrywides adviser made a number of promises he didnt fulfil. They  went elsewhere and 
the new adviser resolved the matter  without difficulty. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Miss P and Miss G signed Countrywides fee agreement in September 2018. They agreed to 
pay £499. A non-refundable  payment of £249  was due when  the mortgage application was 
made and the remainder  at exchange.  
Miss P and Miss G found a property  and Countrywide recommended a mortgage  with a high 
street lender. Unfortunately, the seller received a higher offer for the property and the 
purchase fell through. 
Miss P and Miss G found another property and Countrywide recommended a mortgage  with 
a different lender. Miss P and Miss G agreed  and Countrywide made  an application on their 
Ref: DRN60387632behalf on 14 November  2018. It re-issued its reasons  why letter,  saying the lender it 
recommended was the only one that will consider this type of property. Miss P and Miss G 
agreed to pay the valuation  fee.
The lender  declined the application after receiving the valuers  report. Countrywide 
contacted the lender using its intermediarys  help line. The lender checked  with the valuer,  
and said it wouldnt lend as the valuer had said the property wasnt  suitable security due to 
saleability issues. 
In December 2018, at Miss P and Miss Gs request, Countrywide contacted the business  
development manager at the lender. The lender confirmed that it wouldnt overturn the 
valuers decision. It said while there is a process to appeal  the valuation  amount, theres  no 
appeal where  the valuer had concerns about saleability. 
Miss P and Miss G secured a mortgage  for the property through another broker.  I appreciate  
that theyd lost faith in Countrywide,  after two mortgage  applications  hadnt  completed,  and 
chose to go elsewhere. But I dont think Countrywide made errors that would make it fair and 
reasonable to ask it to refund its fees.
The information Countrywide had suggested  the lender it recommended for the second 
property was most likely  to lend  and it had offered mortgages on similar properties. 
Countrywide couldnt have known it wouldnt offer a mortgage  for the property Miss P and 
Miss G wanted to buy. 
Miss P and Miss G say Countrywide  didnt  appeal the lenders decision correctly,  but I dont 
think this is fair. Countrywide  contacted the lender  several times  about the valuers  report  
which was the reason  it declined the application.  The lender made it clear that its decision 
wouldnt be changed and there was no appeal  process in these circumstances.
While Miss P and Miss G say they found the adviser  hard to contact, the evidence  suggests 
there was frequent contact. From  what Ive seen, Countrywide processed Miss P and 
Miss Gs applications in a timely manner and kept them informed.  
Countrywide did work on Miss P and Miss Gs application. So I think it provided the service 
they paid for. It was unfortunate that the two mortgage applications didnt complete  for 
different reasons  but I cant see that this was due to an error  by Countrywide. 
In her response to the view, Miss P says Countrywide ran credit  searches which  affected her 
credit rating. This wasnt part of the complaint Miss P and Miss G brought to us or raised  
with Countrywide and so I cant consider it here. If she remains  concerned about this, Miss P 
should raise her concerns with Countrywide.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6038763