K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc misled her to believe that she could 
port her mortgage  but it then required her to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). Mrs M 
wants RBS to refund the ERC.
background 
Mrs M had a mortgage with RBS on her buy to let property with a mortgage  product which  
had an ERC  if the mortgage was redeemed early.  Mrs M was selling  her property and buying 
another one and wanted to port the mortgage  product.  Mrs M contacted RBS before she put 
the property on the market and RBS told her that she could  port if she completed on the 
purchase of another property within 4 months.  
Mrs M contacted RBS twice again to confirm this information and to go through the financial 
affordability checks to port the mortgage.  Although Mrs M didnt pass these checks  she says 
that she was assured  that this wouldnt be a problem  as she was borrowing the same 
amount of money  under both mortgages.  Mrs M says that she was passed over to the 
mortgage advice  team to go through the porting process. But before the appointment Mrs M 
received a call saying that she would be unable to port the mortgage as the advice  she had 
been given was based on a residential mortgage whereas hers was a buy to let.
RBS said that Mrs M spoke to an adviser  on 9 October 2018 and 19 November 2018. On the 
latter occasion it says that although  Mrs M failed the affordability check because  there was 
no additional  borrowing she could book  an appointment with a mortgage adviser on an 
exceptional basis and that Mrs M should  call back when she had an offer accepted  on her 
new purchase. RBS booked  an appointment  on 27 November for Mrs M on 4 December. But 
then RBS says that it cancelled  the appointment as buy to let mortgages didnt fall within  its 
exception process. RBS says it told Mrs M this by voicemail and email on 28 November. 
Mrs Ms sale completed on 17 December and RBS charged an ERC. 
RBS accepted that it gave Mrs M incorrect information when it said that despite failing its 
affordability criteria it could  still proceed  with Mrs Ms porting application. The reason it didnt 
proceed was that as Mrs Ms application was for a buy to let, it didnt meet RBSs lending 
criteria even on an exceptional basis. RBS offered  £150 compensation for Mrs Ms loss of 
expectation.   
Our investigator agreed that RBS should compensate Mrs M for causing her stress but felt 
that £300 was more  appropriate. But our investigator felt that Mrs M would have continued 
with the sale of the property in any case and that RBS gave no guarantee that the porting 
application would be successful. Mrs M disagreed saying in summary  that she wouldnt have 
put the house on the market, let alone sell it, had she known  that she would have  had to pay 
the ERC.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M had a mortgage product that meant if she redeemed her mortgage early that she 
would have to pay an ERC. This could be avoided if she could port her mortgage product 
which meant that she would have to apply for a new mortgage on a new property. But taking 
Ref: DRN61946762out a new mortgage depended on Mrs M satisfying RBSs lending  criteria when she applied  
for the new mortgage.
Although Mrs M contacted  RBS in October and got information about porting, she wouldnt 
know whether she would get a new mortgage until she applied. Mrs M made  further 
enquiries on 19 November when she had a new house in mind to buy. The problem was that 
she didnt meet the affordability criteria but RBS told her that an exception  could be made as 
she wasnt increasing her borrowing. My understanding is that this error was made  because  
according to RBSs lending criteria an exception would be made if this were a new 
residential mortgage but not a buy to let.
RBSs error  was discovered shortly afterwards when before a mortgage interview an adviser 
discovered that the exception didnt apply to a but to let so that Mrs M wouldnt get the 
mortgage she was hoping for. RBSs lending criteria is a matter for its commercial judgement 
and on the grounds  of its lending criteria  it wasnt going to give Mrs M a new mortgage.  Mrs 
M, after her phone call of 19 November had an expectation that she may get a mortgage 
because of the exception.  But at that stage  Mrs M still had to go through a mortgage 
interview and I dont believe that it was reasonable for her to assume that she would 
inevitably have got a mortgage.  I must also take into consideration the fact that RBSs 
clarified its error within a reasonable period. 
So, I dont believe that it was reasonable for Mrs M to believe on the basis of the phone  calls 
that she would definitely be able to port her mortgage and to have  proceeded on that basis.  I 
accept that she didnt get the full information she should have got in those phone calls.  So, I 
agree with our investigator that I should uphold this complaint and award  compensation of 
£300 to Mrs M.I understand that £150 of this has been  paid so I will make an order  that RBS 
pays the balance.  But I dont require RBS to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and order  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
to pay Mrs M £150 in addition to the £150  it has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6194676