K820x#14complaint
Mr M says that Trading 212 UK Limited (T212) failed to inform him that its zero-spread 
trading was only a temporary offer. He says he told by T212  that it was not temporary. 
However after a relatively  short period of time, it removed that service. Mr M is also 
concerned about  T212 restricting trading on his account and closing his positions  without 
warning.
background
Mr M had a trading  account with T212. In 2017  T212  was offering a zero-spread trading  
service on certain contracts or positions  that could be taken by its customers. Mr M was 
making use of this service  until T212 withdrew it in 2018. He complained about its 
withdrawal. He also asked  that T212 freeze the position whilst his complaint was ongoing.    
T212 did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that zero-spread trading was not a permanent 
offer. And it was entitled to remove  that service at any time. It announced its removal on its 
website. It said that it had prevented any new positions being opened at Mr Ms request but 
could not freeze  his account  open  positions would continue as normal.  He was free to 
close those positions  at any time. It informed Mr M that it had rejected his new trading orders  
as soon as he tried to make them.  
Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and it was considered by an investigator.  The 
investigator did not believe the complaint should  be upheld.  She said that T212s terms and 
conditions set out that it could remove any financial instrument at its discretion  and she did 
not believe that it had to make it clear the zero-spread could be removed. She did not 
believe that it could  be assumed that the service was permanent. She said that the calls in 
2017 that Mr M said he made to T212 that showed that T212 had said the service was not 
temporary, werent available. She thought that T212 had made Mr M aware  that it was 
closing this service  on 10 April 2018  and that the evidence indicted Mr M had seen this 
notification. The notification set out that all positions would be closed in two weeks time  24 
April 2018. In the event, T212 allowed Mr M to keep these positions open longer  to provide 
extra time for him to close the positions. So she didnt believe T212 had acted  unfairly.
The investigator considered the issue of the restrictions placed  on Mr Ms trading  account. 
She said that this had been done  in response  to Mr Ms request that his account  be frozen 
 and that T212 had confirmed that it could not totally freeze his account  at the time. She 
thought that T212 had informed Mr M of the risks of the CFD trading account. She thought 
that the Bitcoin trades  he referred to were futures  contracts and had a closing date  which 
Mr M had been notified of. Therefore  it was correct that they would close on a certain  date  
without advance notification. The investigator  said that all Mr Ms remaining funds  had been  
returned to him in 2019. 
Mr M did not accept the investigators assessment. He said that T212 was relying on the 
small print and had misled its customers. He said that T212  did not say that the zero spread 
facility was temporary and was only suspended  until he made his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61580042Mr M has said that T212 did not say that zero-spread trading  was temporary. In all likelihood 
that was because it wasnt known at the time how long that service  would be available.  I 
think the comment about it being  temporary is likely made with hindsight   on the basis  its 
now been removed.  The material issue is that I have not seen evidence  that T212  said it 
would never  be removed and I think it very unlikely it would have given assurances that its 
services would continue  indefinitely, as that couldnt  be guaranteed.  
Mr M has supplied on-line  comment, or a report,  of August 2017 which  comments  on T212 
offering zero-spread  trading. It should  be noted  that this is not an advertisement  by T212  but 
third party comment on what service T212 was offering. I therefore do not believe that T212 
had direct control of that content  and so it is not evidence  of T212 publishing misleading 
content about its services.
In any event, I do not believe that T212, providing  services of this nature, has an obligation 
to never  remove a facet of its services  such  as zero-spread trading. It would have 
commercial discretion to remove  certain services  and its ability  to do so was set out in its 
terms and conditions. I have not seen that T212 ever committed  to provide  the same  
services indefinitely. I note that Mr M has referred to telephone  conversations  he had with 
T212 initially in which  he says it was stated that zero-spread trading was a normal part of its 
service. That may well be correct  and that would be expected if it was a normal  part of its 
service at that time.  
It seems  to me that T212 provided the zero-spread  service from about August 2017 to April 
2018. It was not that it only offered the service  for a very brief period of time  such  as would 
indicate an unreasonable approach. It provided the service for over six months.  It decided  
then to withdraw that service  and if it does  so it should give Mr M notice. I can see it did 
give Mr M notice  and, then, a period in which to act on that closure by taking any trading 
decisions he wished to. I can see that in April 2018  T212 informed Mr M that it was 
suspending zero-spread trading. And it said that all positions on zero-spread  would  be 
closed from 24 April 2018. The zero-spread  offering was also restricted to a maximum 
position  so T212 wasnt acting incorrectly when it did not provide the opportunity  to trade  in 
excess of that position. So I do not believe T212  acted incorrectly or unreasonably in this 
respect and I do not uphold this point of complaint. 
In terms of Mr Ms futures  positions, I agree that such trades have an end date and it would 
be for Mr M to satisfy  himself that he understood the operation of such trades  before he dealt 
in them.  T212 was not providing him with advice on how to trade or what that type of trading 
might mean. It wouldnt normally need to tell him when such positions would close  
because of the very nature of them is that they would close at some point. In my view it 
made it clear  that the trades Mr M refers to were  futures positions.  So it was not a case  of it 
closing out his positions incorrectly. It is unfortunate  if Mr M was unaware  of that but I 
cannot hold T212 liable for that.
   
I dont believe that the evidence shows that T212  incorrectly stopped Mr M from trading  it 
did that as a response from him to freeze  the position whilst  his complaint was ongoing. But 
that could not freeze any positions he had open  because they are subject to active 
market/trading. Mr M could  have  closed those positions if he wished.  
I havent seen  evidence that T212 misappropriated Mr Ms funds or stopped him closing his 
positions. Rather the evidence is that T212 has provided Mr M with the relevant proceeds 
from his account. 
Ref: DRN61580043Bearing this in mind  I do not believe Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6158004