K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about how esure Insurance Limited has handled their claim for 
subsidence on their home  insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs P had a home insurance  policy with esure. In 2015  they made a claim for 
subsidence after they discovered  cracks in the extension to the property. 
esure accepted the claim and identified the cause of the subsidence as a broken drain  pipe 
that was leaking  into the soil in that area of the extension. Over the coming months  repairs  to 
the pipe were carried out along with superstructure repairs to the cracks. 
Throughout this time Mr and Mrs P raised  concerns about the progress of the claim and the 
standard of the repairs. They made  a complaint  to esure in 2016 and another in 2017 as 
they felt the repairs  had been unsuccessful as there were still cracks  appearing in the 
extension. They also felt the claim was progressing slowly.
esure upheld  this complaint and agreed  the claim hadnt progressed as quickly  as it would 
hope. It offered  a total of £450 to make  up for the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
Following this complaint  esure directed a contractor to carry out further monitoring and it was 
decided that the property  should be underpinned. Work began to underpin  but early on the 
contractors discovered that a foul water pipe was cracked and leaking in the area the 
problems had been occurring.
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs P made another complaint. They  said that they felt the drain 
had not been sufficiently  repaired to begin  with and if it had, the claim would have concluded 
significantly earlier. They  also felt that underpinning  may not have been necessary. They 
also felt the value of their house had been  impacted by the fact it would now need to be 
underpinned and thought esure should compensate them for this loss. 
esure didnt  agree that the drain hadnt been  properly repaired.  It said there had been two 
drain reports carried out since the repairs  and both said the pipe was showing no signs  of 
damage. It said it thought it more likely the drain  had been  damaged  as part of the repair 
work that was being carried out in relation  to the underpinning. Further  it said the policy  
didnt cover for loss of value of a property  so it wouldnt compensate for any impact  the claim 
may have  on the value.  However it accepted that there had been some delays and offered a 
further £200 compensation.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld.  He 
said he thought  it was more likely that the repair on the drain run hadnt been carried out 
correctly and this had been the cause of the further movement of the property. He 
recommended esure pay an additional £1,250  in compensation to make  up for the distress  
and inconvenience  it had caused  through this error.  
Mr and Mrs P didnt  think the compensation was enough to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN60375732esure didnt  agree with the view either. It said that the drain  reports  involved thorough  
examination of the drain in question, so it didnt  agree that it hadnt  been repaired properly. It 
maintained that the damage  was more consistent  with accidental damage by the contractors 
who were carrying out underpinning. 
As esure and Mr and Mrs P dont agree with our investigators recommendations, the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how esure has handled their claim. This is apparent from the 
complaints raised  at different  stages. This decision only addresses the most recent 
complaint, however matters raised in that complaint have impacted the rest of the claim so I 
have referred to all stages of the claim in my considerations. 
Mr and Mrs P have  said they dont feel the repairs to the pipe near the extension were ever 
properly carried out. They say this has impacted the subsequent repair  work  and has caused 
the claim to go on much  longer than it should  have. esure disagree that the repair  wasnt 
carried out correctly  in the first place, it says the pipe was more likely damaged by the 
contractors who were  starting work to underpin the property.
Where there is a disagreement about  what happened,  I need  to decide what  is more likely to 
have happened  based on the evidence provided  by both sides.  
esure has pointed  out that two drain surveys were carried out after the repairs  and both said 
the drains were  functioning well. It says the drain  couldnt have been insufficiently repaired 
or this would have  been picked up in these surveys. I agree that I would expect  problems to 
be picked by the drain reports  carried  out. 
I have looked  at these reports. They do both state that the pipe in question has been  
repaired and is in good condition with no further  works required. However, in the first report 
there is little more detail  about the exact test carried out and in the second, it only references  
that CCTV checks of the run was completed, not the extent of these tests. So although I 
would expect these  surveys to pick up any problems, Im not entirely persuaded that 
thorough testing was completed.  As there is no description of the extent of the testing. 
Having said that, this alone wouldnt be enough to persuade me that the pipes werent  
sufficiently repaired.  As although the reports werent detailed, we can be certain that some  
checks were carried  out and I would expect problems to be picked  up during these.
However I have to consider this in the context of all other evidence. Since the repairs took 
place Mr and Mrs P have consistently  complained about further movement and cracking  to 
the extension. All of which has taken place  in the vicinity of the pipe in question. From 
looking at the concerns  they have raised,  it seems that there  was never  a significant period 
of time, following the repairs, where  Mr and Mrs P were satisfied that the movement  had 
stopped. And they continued to find cracks  in the same area regularly after the repair work.
Further, where repair work relating to subsidence is carried  out, we would usually expect 
some form of monitoring to take place  before  superstrcutre repairs commence.  This 
Ref: DRN60375733confirms that the correct  cause of the subsidence has been  identified and rectified before 
repair work starts. In this case,  no monitoring was carried out after the drain repairs. esure 
has said that their expert advised that with drain related repairs  it isnt necessary to carry out 
monitoring as in 80% of cases  you dont need to wait until the ground recovers for repairs to 
be carried out. 
I am not an expert in subsidence  repairs, as esures contractor is, so I dont doubt that what 
they say is true. However I still think it is prudent to carry out some  form of monitoring. 
Although I appreciate the ground may not need  to have  completely stabilised, it would 
confirm if the works had been successful and the cause of the subsidence had been 
removed. 
So when considering the circumstances  of the claim together,  I think its most likely that the 
drain wasnt properly  fixed in the first repair. As problems persisted in the same  area even 
after repairs,  and no monitoring was carried out to show the repair  had been successful in 
the first place. 
I have also considered esures  explanation  that the damage to the pipe has been caused  
when the work began to underpin the building. While I accept, from looking at the photos of 
the damage, it is a possibility, I am not persuaded that this is the most likely  cause. 
Upon finding the damage,  the subsidence contractors reported as follows:
Whilst completing the enabling works for the piling SMS have found the foul water  pipe 
running beside the foundation to the rear left of the building is cracked  and leaking 
significantly. Test flushing of the toilet has shown  that water  escapes from the pipe each time 
the toilet is flushed. Given that this break  is directly  in the area of movement it may well be 
that this leak is a contributing factor of the movement if not the fundamental cause
So while I can understand why esure have come to the conclusion that the damage may 
have been caused by these contractors from looking at the photos its been provided with, I 
am more  persuaded by the contractors conclusions above. This is because  they were on 
site and identified  the damage, so were able to view and test it in person. They  also point out 
that it is in the exact location of the problems that had been  continuing throughout  the claim. 
I also think it is of note that in the correspondence  provided by esure that on finding out 
about the broken drain, its technical engineer accepts  that asking the company who carried  
out the initial repairs to check their own work in the drain surveys  is of concern. And 
considering this alongside all other evidence, I agree with these concerns. 
So for all these reasons  I am more persuaded that the pipe in question  wasnt properly 
repaired from the start of the claim, rather  than it being damaged  accidentally  by the recent 
contractors. 
As I am persuaded  that esure  has done  something wrong  I need  to consider how it can put 
things right. To do this I have considered the impact the error has had on Mr and Mrs P.
It is difficult to know  exactly what would have  happened if the pipe had been correctly  
repaired at the start of the claim. However  there is little doubt  the claim would have 
concluded in significantly less time.  Which  would have reduced the impact on Mr and Mrs 
Ps lives.  They have explained that they have  busy and unpredictable jobs which has meant 
Ref: DRN60375734it has been difficult to juggle  meeting  the required site visits and keep up with 
correspondence. 
I can see from the correspondence across the life of the claim that Mr and Mrs P have  had to 
be in regular contact  with esure. They  have  continually  raised  concerns about  the property 
continuing to move and new cracks appearing and have had to make complaints  in order to 
get action taken. Considering the claim was raised three years before this final complaint, 
this is a significant amount of their time and would have  no doubt caused  a considerable 
amount of distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs P have  said that they feel if the pipe had been properly repaired in the beginning  
then underpinning of the property may not have  been needed at all. It isnt possible to say for 
certain what would have been  necessary, but as the drain has been  left to leak for a number 
of years more than it should have it is likely  that the problem  worsened due to this error.  And 
therefore that greater repairs  are now needed.
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that Mr and Mrs P have experienced a 
significant amount  of distress and inconvenience due to the error in the original  repair work. 
And for that reason I agree with his recommendation that esure should pay Mr and Mrs P an 
additional £1,250 to make  up for this. 
Mr and Mrs P have  also said they are concerned about the impact underpinning will have  on 
the value of their property  and think they should  be compensated for this. Both our 
investigator and esure have referred  to the relevant section of the policy  that states that any 
impact on the value of a property isnt covered under the policy and I agree this isnt 
something that would  be covered. So I dont think its fair to ask esure to compensate for any 
loss in value. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs P an 
additional £1,250 compensation to make  up for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 December  2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6037573