K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S applied  for a mortgage  with TSB Bank  plc and are unhappy with what  
happened with the survey  of the property.  Whilst Mr and Mrs S paid for a homebuyer  report, 
they say they didnt  receive a copy of the report before they exchanged contracts (and 
therefore committed to the purchase). They also say there  are serious  flaws  in the report  as 
it missed issues  such as dry rot.
background
Mr and Mrs S applied  for a mortgage  with TSB for a property  they were  looking to buy. When 
the valuation was arranged they paid £750 for a homebuyer report.
The survey  was carried out on 5 March 2018 and Mr and Mrs S house  purchase completed 
on 14 June 2018.
Mr and Mrs S say they didnt get a copy of the homebuyer report  and were passed back  and 
forth by the surveyor  and TSB when they chased it up. It seems Mr and Mrs S hadnt  signed 
the homebuyer  standard  terms of engagement before  the survey was undertaken and the 
surveyor wouldnt release  the report until theyd been signed.
Mr and Mrs S says TSB encouraged them to sign the standard  terms of engagement, but 
they were unwilling to do so retrospectively  as that would be fraudulent, as theyd be signing 
something that was untrue (in that theyd  be signing  to say theyd agreed  to the terms before 
the survey had been completed).
As TSB was happy with the short mortgage valuation report  it received, it proceeded to offer 
on 1 May and the purchase completed on 14 June.
Mr and Mrs S say once they moved in they discovered problems with the property. They 
complained to TSB. They said theyd been  told by TSB that the valuation was OK, and they 
assumed this meant TSB had seen the full homebuyer  report,  not just a short  mortgage  
valuation report.  They said if theyd known the extent  of the problems they either wouldnt 
have bought the property,  or they would have negotiated a discount.
As they hadnt  received  a response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs S referred it to us. Our 
adjudicator said we couldnt deal with a complaint about the surveyor, only about TSBs 
actions or inactions.  And having  considered the complaint he thought TSB hadnt done  
anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
I trust Mr and Mrs S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point 
its not because  Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.  
Ref: DRN63123612TSB doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs  the services of a surveyor. 
When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement  that was 
fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS). TSBs not accountable for the conduct of the individual  surveyor or any action (or 
inaction) by the surveyor or the firm he works for. 
TSB is in our jurisdiction,  but only for things it did (or didnt  do); we cant  consider complaints 
against it for things a separate business  did (or didnt do). The surveying firms complaints 
process comes under RICS.  All I can consider against TSB is if it discharged its duty in 
instructing a suitable firm of surveyors, and having  considered everything Im satisfied it did.
Whilst TSB collected the fee for the homebuyer  survey,  it passed that fee onto the surveying 
firm so if Mr and Mrs S feel a refund  is due thats something theyd need to pursue with the 
surveying firm directly. TSB did all it had to do, which  was collect the fee, instruct the correct 
report (the homebuyer report) and pass the fee onto the surveying firm. Everything else is a 
dispute between  Mr and Mrs S and the surveying firm.
I dont know what happened that led to Mr and Mrs S not signing the standard  terms of 
engagement before  the survey was carried out, as thats unusual.  But thats a matter  thats  
between Mr and Mrs S and the surveying firm; its got nothing to do with TSB.  I understand 
Mr and Mrs S point  about signing the terms of engagement after the event, but doing so 
wouldnt be fraudulent  as theyve claimed as they could have simply added a note that 
theyve done so after the event. I dont think TSB did anything wrong in suggesting to 
Mr and Mrs S that they sign the document as that would have seemed a fairly pragmatic way 
of resolving the stalemate. Mr and Mrs S chose  not to, but that doesnt mean TSB was at 
fault for suggesting  it as a possible way forward.
Mr and Mrs S say TSB kept passing them back to the surveying firm, but that was the right 
thing to do. Lenders dont get copies  of the homebuyer report and cant get involved in 
matters that are between  the consumer and the surveying firm. TSB would have no power to 
get the report released. It had all it needed to decide  whether it was willing to agree to a 
mortgage, which was the short mortgage  valuation report. Whilst Mr and Mrs S said they 
thought TSB had seen the homebuyer  report when it said the valuation  was OK, that was an 
assumption on their part rather than something TSB told them,  and I cant  hold TSB liable for 
that mistaken assumption.
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell TSB to change  it processes and/or 
what it should do to prevent  anything similar happening again.  We look at each complaint 
individually and what may - or may not - happen  in the future  to other  customers  isnt 
something I can consider  here when deciding Mr and Mrs S complaint about  what happened 
to them.  I understand  TSB didnt issue a response to Mr and Mrs S complaint, but that is a 
regulatory matter.  Im satisfied it didnt  stop Mr and Mrs S referring their complaint to us as 
they did so about two months after they completed  on the property purchase.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Ref: DRN63123613Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6312361