K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Clerical Medical  Financial Services Limited failed  to inform him about  
his pension. 
background
In March 2002 Mr E joined his company  pension  scheme which was run by Clerical Medical. 
In August  2004  he left the company and Clerical  Medical was notified. It wrote to him on 19 
November at the address on the application form and says it received no reply. It doesnt  
have records of sending  him annual statements for the first couple of years, but one was 
issued in April 2007, but by that time Mr E had moved and the mail was returned 
undelivered.
Clerical Medical asked the independent  financial adviser noted on the application  form for an 
updated address,  but has no record of a response. It stopped issuing further statements. In 
2017 the business set up a tracing exercise for policyholders whose addresses were 
unknown. This was carried out by a third party and in March 2019  it identified an address for 
Mr E. 
Clerical Medical wrote  to Mr E in March and he was concerned that it was a scam. He called 
the business and asked  why it had taken it so long to trace  him. He also expressed his 
annoyance at the phone being constantly engaged.  Clerical Medical  sent him the forms to 
convert the company pension to a personal one.
Mr E complained and Clerical Medical  apologised for the delay in tracking  him down and for 
the handling of his complaint. It paid him £350  compensation.  Unfortunately  it used an 
incorrect address when responding to Mr E, but the letter was delivered to him. However, the 
business apologised and paid him a further  £100.  
Mr E brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He noted Mr E had completed a ten page  
application form in 2002, but didnt remember doing this. He thought  it likely that Mr Es 
pension contributions would have been shown on his payslips and overall  he thought it 
reasonable to expect  him to have  been aware  he had a pension.
There was no record of Mr E notifying  Clerical  Medical of his new address or seeking to do 
so via his former employers. Clerical Medical  had identified  he had moved and had asked 
the financial adviser for a new address but this hadnt been supplied.  He didnt think the 
business should be penalised for this situation.
He went on to consider  the potential impact on Mr E. He was aware that Mr E had said he 
had been paying £100 a month  into a savings account and had suggested  that this showed  
he was capable of making payments to a pension. However, the investigator pointed  out that 
Mr E hadnt  sought  to pay any contributions  to a personal pension.  Overall he wasnt 
persuaded that Mr E had lost out. He added that he though the compensation of £450 paid 
by Clerical Medical was more than he would have recommended. Mr E didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61183212It is unfortunate that Mr E hasnt continued with his pension. However the situation came 
about because  he apparently didnt  tell Clerical Medical of his change of address. It made  
efforts to contact him, but these failed. It is possible that it could have done more  before 
2017, but it is also possible that Mr E could have taken action to contact the business. Even 
if he didnt have full details of his pension  he could have spoken to his former employers. 
I am not sure what date Mr E left his old address,  but I note the business has no record  of a 
response to its letter  to him after he left his old job. That could suggest that it had been 
delivered to Mr E and he didnt respond. However, if he had moved it is possible that the 
letter simply was ignored by the new occupants.
Like our investigator I am not persuaded that Mr E would have continued with the pension  
contributions once he left his old job. There is no evidence of him seeking to set up another  
pension. The business says that Mr E was auto enrolled in a group pension  plan with one of 
its sister  companies in 2014 and he complained that he hadnt  agreed to this happening.
Overall I dont think it likely that he would have continued the pension  in 2004. I also think 
that although it would have been  preferable if Clerical Medical had chased Mr Es new 
address a little more  there is no certainty that such actions would have been successful. I 
also think it was open to Mr E to have taken some action to protect  his pension if he had 
wanted to. Therefore while  I can understand Mr Es disappointment I dont  think  I can uphold  
his complaint.
I would add that I believe the compensation paid by the business  is more than fair for both 
not tracing Mr E and for the level of service it showed in dealing with his complaint. The 
issue if the incorrect address used  in complaint letter caused Mr E no difficulty  as the letter 
was received by him and the error  was minor.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 
2 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6118321