K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  out for a dual 
credit card account. The account  opened  in 1994, and the first available  statements in 2000  
show there being PPI on both cards.  So the policies started at some point between  1994 and 
2000. Mrs B says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  here, for the following reasons:
Because of all the time thats  passed, neither side have the original documents  from the 
sale. But from what Ive seen of the sales process for this type of account in this time 
period, the PPI wouldve  only been added if Mrs B actively  chose it. And Ive not seen any 
evidence showing that Lloyds misled Mrs B into having PPI. So I think its most  likely that 
Lloyds made it clear Mrs B didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  
though I can certainly understand why she might not remember  this after so long.
Both sides say Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs B. That means Lloyds  had to check  
that it was right for her  and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  
I think that it was. For example, it looks like Mrs B wouldve been eligible  for the cover  
and wasnt affected by any of its main  exclusions  or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out 
on top of her work benefits and it offered her more comprehensive cover.  So it looks  like 
the PPI couldve  been useful for Mrs B.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I said above,  it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and it could have been  useful for Mrs B in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly basis,  so Mrs B could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking it out. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But for the card with numbers ending -010 and -373,  Lloyds does have  to pay back to Mrs B 
some of the cost of the PPI, because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN64990132what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the premium  for the applicable card. Lloyds should also pay back  to Mrs B any extra  
interest she paid because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the applicable  credit card and pay back to Mrs B the difference 
between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mrs B 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off that credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds  Bank  PLC doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium for the applicable credit card.  If it has already 
done this, then I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6499013