K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Portafina  LLP (formerly known as Portal  Financial Services LLP) 
wrongly advised him to transfer  pensions  he held to a Self-Invested  Personal  Pension 
(SIPP) in 2014. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2020.  Ive recapped the background below:
In late 2013 Mr S was referred to Portafina  by a third party.  Hes said this happened  after he 
was cold called. Mr S took advice from Portafina in early  2014.
Mr S circumstances as recorded  by Portafinas fact find were as follows:
He was 50 years old, married and had an 18-year-old child who was financially 
dependent on him
He was in good health but had suffered a small stroke a year and a half ago
He worked part-time as a cleaner and was earning about £240 a month
He lived in rented accommodation which cost him £500 a month. However,  half of his 
rent was paid for by housing  benefits he received
He had an outstanding loan of around  £3,000, which was being repaid at £40 a 
month
He had four Personal Pension  Plans (PPPs) and a Retirement Annuity Contract 
(RAC). Mr S RAC and two of his PPPs included Guaranteed Annuity Rates  (GARs)
Apart from his pensions he had no other assets
He didnt intend to retire before age 65
Portafinas suitability  letter dated 13 January 2014 said, amongst other things:
Mr S objectives for transferring were:
 
-To consolidate his pension  arrangements
-To improve  performance
-To have  greater fund choice
-To have  the option to take Tax Free Cash (TFC)  at 55 if he wanted to and take 
the rest of his pension as income at 65
Mr S risk profile suggested he had a Balanced attitude to investment risk (ATR)
To achieve Mr S objectives, Portafina recommended  he transfer three  of his PPPs 
and his RAC to a SIPP and invest in the following  funds:
-Lakeview UK Investments  8.3%
-Marbella Resort & Spa  7.96%
-Real Estate Investments USA  8.38%
-Motion Picture Global Investments  7.96%
-Strategic Residential  Developments  8.38%
-Tambaba Developments PLC  7.96%
-Invesco Perpetual Distribution Gross  Acc  10.19%
-Invesco Perpetual High Yield  Acc - 10.19%
-Kames Ethical Cautious Managed B Acc - 10.19%
Ref: DRN61661572-AXA Ethical Distribution Acc- 10.19%
-Cash - 10.22%
Due to some of the funds  recommended becoming unavailable, Portafina revised its 
recommendation to Mr S investing in the following funds:
-Lakeview UK Investments  12.5%
-Real Estate Investments USA  10%
-Strategic Residential  Developments  7.5%
-Invesco Perpetual Distribution Gross  Acc  16%
-Invesco Perpetual High Yield  Acc  15.75%
-Kames Ethical Cautious Managed B Acc  16.64%
-AXA Ethical Distribution Acc- 16.53%
-Cash  4.9%
Mr S agreed to Portafinas recommendations. In September  2014  the total value of four of 
Mr S five pensions (around £27,000) was transferred into a SIPP  and invested. Mr S fifth 
pension wasnt transferred because of the Market Value Reduction (MVR) that applied.
As an initial fee Portafina was paid 5% of the total value  transferred to Mr S SIPP.  It was 
also agreed that Portafina would be paid 1% of the value of Mr S SIPP  each year for its 
review service.
In November 2018, Mr S complained to Portafina  about the suitability  of the 2014 advice he 
had received. 
Portafina responded to Mr S complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the transfer and 
investments were suitable based on Mr S circumstances  and objectives at the time of its 
advice.
Unhappy with Portafinas response, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered  the matter and said that the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
Three of the four pensions Portafina advised Mr S to transfer had valuable GARs. 
Although Mr S signed paperwork  agreeing  to give up the GARs  she didnt think Mr S 
wouldve understood the implications  of this 
She didnt think it was necessary for Mr S to transfer to a SIPP to meet his objective 
of investing in different funds. Although the provider for three of Mr S pensions  said it 
didnt offer a choice  of switching funds, the provider  of one of his other pensions  did
The cost of switching  to the SIPP was high and coupled with ongoing charges, this 
would reduce the amount of Mr S fund invested. She said this meant  that any 
investment returns would need to cover the cost of switching and ongoing  charges  
before any growth could be achieved
Given the responses Mr S gave  to the ATR questionnaire and his circumstances at 
the time,  she felt he should have been  considered to have a low ATR
The portfolio  of funds Portafina advised  Mr S to invest in presented a degree  of risk 
which was unsuitable given Mr S circumstances at the time
Mr S accepted the investigators findings.  But Portafina disagreed. 
Ref: DRN61661573Because no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a decision.  
And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
Mr S complaint. Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken 
serious note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made,  Ive limited my 
response to what I consider to be the issues central to this complaint. 
In 2008, the regulator  issued a report entitled  quality of advice on pension  switching.  The 
report summarised the findings of the regulators thematic review of pension switching 
advice. It also gave  examples of good, compliant and poor practices  it found  regarding the 
quality of advice  given since the Government  introduced new rules for pensions  on 6 April 
2006 (also known as pensions  A-day).  It mentioned a number  of examples of what  it 
thought could constitute unsuitable advice. And Ive set out some of those examples below.
A new pension and the customer  had lost benefits from their ceding pension  (for 
example, guaranteed annuity  rates) without these being explained or justified
A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension,  but a stakeholder  
pension would have  met the customers needs
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example,  the reason for the switch  was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used;  the reason  was fund performance,  but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was 
flexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence  that this option was 
needed)
Having thought about what  the regulator  said in the report, Im not satisfied from everything 
Ive seen, that the advice Portafina gave Mr S was reasonable. I dont think  the product 
costs which  resulted from the advice were justified. Nor do I think  Mr S had the experience, 
knowledge or ATR to assess or fully appreciate the transfer or the investments Portafina  
recommended. 
Portafinas Suitability  letter said that, amongst other  things, Mr S wanted to improve  the 
performance of this pension arrangements- thats  a common and understandable 
objective. But Mr S was also reliant on Portafinas advice. It was up to Portafina to give Mr 
S suitable advice,  taking  into account not just his investment objectives and his ATR but 
also his capacity for loss and his experience to understand  the risks involved in what it 
recommended.
Portafina assessed Mr S ATR as balanced based on the Risk Profiling Questionnaire he 
completed. In summary, Portafinas  Suitability report described this as someone who:
had a moderate  level of financial knowledge
might  have some  experience of investments, including investing in products 
containing risky assets
would likely understand  they have to take investment  risk to meet  their long-term 
goals
Ref: DRN61661574would likely be willing to take risk with at least part of their available assets
would be prepared to give up a certain outcome for a gamble where  the potential 
rewards from the gamble  are high enough
would usually be able to make up their minds  on financial matters  relatively  quickly,  
but would  suffer  from some regret when their decisions turned out badly
Whilst I agree some  of the answers Mr S gave on the questionnaire might  suggest he was 
willing to take some degree of risk, I think other answers shouldve  led Portafina to 
question whether the assessment of his risk profile  was correct.
For example, Mr S provided the following answers  to the questions below.  
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person- agree
I find investment matters easy to understand- strongly disagree
I have little experience investing  in stocks and shares- strongly agree
Im concerned by the volatility of stock market  investments-  agree
Some of Mr S answers were  also inconsistent and of the twelve  questions  Mr S was 
asked, he answered  no strong opinion to half. The latter was highlighted to Portafina 
under the Robustness section of the questionnaires results,  along with the suggestion Mr 
S answers  be discussed further. I havent  seen anything to suggest  such  a discussion  took 
place. 
Mr S answers needed to be considered  in the context of his overall  circumstances. A 
willingness to accept  a degree of risk isnt the only factor to consider in providing suitable  
advice. The degree of risk Mr S was in a position to take was also material   his capacity 
to accept losses in the context  of his overall circumstances was a key consideration.
Portafina said it determined Mr S capacity for loss for its recommendation to be a suitable 
level. It said this was based on Mr Cs situation  and his answers  to several  questions. 
Some of the questions (and corresponding notes)  were as follow:
How high is your income  relative  to your  spending needs?
The more  surplus  income  you have the more you will be able to cope with any investment 
losses.
What is the value of your assets  (housing; investments; business etc) relative to your 
liabilities and spending needs?
The higher  the value  of your assets  relative  to your liabilities and spending  needs,  the more  
you will be able to cope with any investment losses.
How easy  would it be for you to reduce the amount you spend?
The more  flexible your spending, the more you can adjust to cope with any investment 
losses.
Mr S answers to these  questions arent  provided in the report. But given the above 
considerations, coupled with what was known about Mr S circumstances, I dont think  it was 
Ref: DRN61661575reasonable for Portafina to conclude  Mr S had a suitable level of Capacity for Loss  for the 
investments it recommended. Nor do I agree that Portafinas conclusion  that balanced  was 
an accurate reflection of Mr S ATR. 
In the main I think Mr S answers to Portafinas ATR questionnaire indicated  that he didnt 
have the knowledge or appetite for risk for the investments recommended  by Portafina. And 
I think Mr S overall circumstances demonstrated  that he didnt the capacity  to bear the risk 
of loss these funds represented.  
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr S was clearly  not in a strong  financial position.  He was 
on a very low income, living in rented accommodation and receiving  means tested state 
benefits. Mr S also had no savings, investments or assets other than his five pensions.  His 
pensions were his most  valuable assets.  When Mr S met with Portafina,  the pensions  he 
was advised to transfer were all invested  in With Profits funds. This doesnt  suggest to me 
that Mr S was a balanced risk investor  with his pensions or some who,  according to 
Portafina, was prepared or able to give up a certain  outcome for a gamble. Mr S has told 
us hes always been a cautious  or low risk investor.
Im not satisfied that Portafinas assessment of Mr S ATR or capacity for loss was an 
accurate appraisal  of the investment risk Mr S was prepared or able to take with his pension 
funds. Based on what Portafina knew  about Mr S circumstances and investment 
experience, I think it was more reasonable to conclude  that Mr S was a relatively 
cautious/low risk investor. And on this basis, I dont think  he had the capacity  to accept the 
level of risk to his pension  funds  that Portafinas  recommendation  presented.
As Ive said,  the pensions  Mr S was advised  to transfer were all invested  in With Profits 
funds. I think this was in line with his ATR. The performance of these pensions had been 
limited for some years,  with bonuses, in many  instances, not being added. However, three  
of the four pensions had guarantees built in. 
The fact that three  of Mr S pensions had GARs shouldve been  an important factor when 
considering the suitability  of the advice to switch to a SIPP.  I cant see that Portafina gave 
this sufficient attention at the time. Given Mr S vulnerable position financially, I dont think 
he was in a position to give up the GARs on his pension,  which  wouldve provided a 
degree of security to his retirement planning. 
At the time of the advice Mr S pension provider  confirmed that for his plans with GARs, 
he could at age 65 receive three annuities paying  a total of around £16,000 a year. The 
annuities didnt include any bonuses added  to Mr S pensions and if Mr S chose an 
annuity with his provider on a different basis or decided to take TFC, the guarantee would 
be recalculated  accordingly.  If Mr S chose to defer taking benefits the GARs would be 
recalculated.
Regarding the GARs, Portafina said in its Suitability  Report:
() three of your () policies carry guaranteed  annuity rates which  when calculated it is 
highly unlikely the growth required  to match these benefits could not be achieved  () 
advice would be to stay with your current  provider and keep the guarantees attached  
however, you have stated  that you will definitely  be taking tax free cash  at 55 and will 
definitely not want to take an income until your desired retirement  age of 65.
I cant see, from the evidence provided  that Portafina made  Mr S sufficiently aware of the 
value of his GARs, or that it provided him with clear comparative illustrations to 
Ref: DRN61661576demonstrate the income he couldve expected  from his pensions with guarantees against  
those without a guarantee. 
I also havent seen  anything to support Portafinas conclusion that the growth  required to 
merely match Mr S guaranteed benefits was highly likely to be achieved  by the 
investments Portafina  recommended. Theres nothing to indicate the performance of 
these investments, some of which were in the form of loans to property development 
companies, could  be relied upon  to generate income  to pay the promised returns . 
Portafina has said one of the reasons for recommending the switch, and in doing so give 
up his GARs, was because Mr S wanted to take TFC at age 55 and defer taking a regular 
income until age 65. Although I think access to TFC could have been a motivation for   Mr 
S, I havent seen anything  to demonstrate Portafina explored what this actually meant for 
him. Theres nothing to show any discussion about what  TFC Mr S felt he was likely to 
need or want at 55 (as opposed to 65), or what this meant in terms of the GARs he would 
be giving  up to access this. 
I dont think there was any compelling requirement  for Mr S to access his TFC at age 55.   
Mr S debt was modest and at the rate he was repaying his loan, most of this debt would be 
cleared by age 55. It seems to me that TFC was nice to have  for Mr S who may have been 
curious about the options available with his pensions.  Im also mindful that Mr S decision to 
consider other options for his pensions seems to mainly have been as a result of contact 
from the third party which  referred him onto Portafina. 
While retirement  planning  may have  regard for an individuals short-terms goals, its primary 
focus should be a consumers personal circumstances with a view to putting them in the best 
possible position at retirement, with the appropriate  income provision in place long-term. So 
while I can accept that Mr S may have wanted to access  TFC in the short term, I think a 
greater level of concern  and consideration needed  to be given to Mr S future long-term 
position. I dont  think Portafinas recommendation did this.
Given Mr S low income and lack of savings,  I think the guaranteed benefits  available under 
Mr S plans, financial security and his future position  were  of considerable significance. And 
any recommendation from Portafina needed  to support this. If the real value of Mr S GARs  
was explained  in layman terms  along  with the risks/likely  rewards  of trying to improve on 
these, I think Mr S would  likely have remained in his plans with guarantees. 
Im not satisfied that accessing TFC at age 55 was a reasonable basis for Portafina to make 
a recommendation  which  resulted in Mr S losing his GARs.
Having decided the transfer of Mr S three plans with GARs was unsuitable, Ive also 
considered the position of the one remaining pension that didnt have a GAR. Ive concluded 
that, in isolation, it wouldnt  have been  appropriate  to transfer  that plan. Given the size of the 
fund, and the charges involved, I believe it would have been in Mr S best interests to have 
left all of his pensions  where they were, until he needed either income or TFC and could 
have reviewed his position without losing  the chance to consider his options, especially the 
GARs. Im also mindful that as Mr S had five different  pensions,  this couldve afforded him 
some flexibility in terms of staggering taking benefits, if he wished to do so. 
Ive considered the charges Mr S needed  to pay to transfer to a SIPP. Portafinas Suitability 
Report confirmed the following charges would apply:
an initial fee of 5% of the total value  transferred  to the SIPP
Ref: DRN61661577a 1% ongoing advice fee
an annual management  charge  of 0.5%
Portafina enclosed  an illustration from the SIPP provider which set out the additional  charges 
that would  apply to each  investment made. The illustration also included  a section headed 
How the charges  can affect your plan. This showed  that if no charges were taken from Mr 
S SIPP, on retirement it could be worth  £51,700.  After charges were taken into account, his 
fund could be worth £35,700.  And this meant that the real yearly growth rate could be 
reduced by 2.7% to 2.5%,  which I think is a significant difference.
Combined, the overall costs of the switch represented a sizable reduction in what I think was 
an already modest  transfer value. The charges were significantly higher than Mr S existing 
pensions which were  invested in low risk funds with guarantees built in. For three of Mr S 
pensions, the charges  were implicit and taken into account before bonuses  were declared. 
And the annual management charge for Mr S fourth  pension  was £1.50.
Its not in dispute  that Portafina  told Mr S that the switch  into a SIPP would lead to increased 
costs. But the fact that higher costs  were disclosed doesnt automatically mean the switch  
should be regarded  as suitable. Disclosure  isnt the same as suitability.  
Bearing in mind I think that Mr S was a relatively  cautious investor,  I dont believe there was 
great prospect of making  up the cost of the switch via investment growth any time soon 
without taking significant investment risks, of which he had no experience.  
In the Suitability Report, the justification provided for switching to a more expensive  
arrangement was so that Mr S could access  the required funds. But Im not persuaded, 
given his experience, that Mr S needed the opportunity to invest outside conventional  
insured funds which was provided by the SIPP Portafina recommended.  
If switching funds was important to Mr S, I think he couldve accessed  a plan with 
appropriate features  and suitable investments at a lower cost- either by retaining  his existing 
pensions or switching one of his plans (not any of those with GARs or the plan with the 
significant Market  Value Reduction) to a cheaper product, such  as a stakeholder plan. 
Theres insufficient evidence the alternative options  were adequately explored before being  
discounted by Portafina. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr S was unhappy with his pensions or that he had any 
need to take additional  investment  risk. As the cost of transferring was high and the overall  
level of charges were  more than Mr S existing arrangement, there again doesnt appear to 
be any material reason  for transferring. And I dont think having the option to access TFC at 
age 55 or consolidating his pensions was sufficient justification for Mr S giving up the 
protection of his GARs  which wouldve provided protection in the event that annuity  rates  fell. 
As a result, I cant see how Portafinas recommendation to switch  into the SIPP  was in Mr S 
best interests.
As I consider Portafina shouldnt have advised Mr S to switch  to the SIPP,  it follows  that he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer  of his pensions.  He also wouldnt  have  invested  
around 30% of his transfer value in property bonds. The investments concerned were illiquid 
and, in my view, posed a higher degree  of risk in terms of capital erosion than Mr S ought to 
have been advised to take with his pensions  given his capacity and appetite  for risk. Im not 
persuaded the combination of funds Portafina recommended were  aligned to Mr S 
circumstances and therefore suitable.
Ref: DRN61661578I accept that Mr S signed documentation to say that along with the loss of GARs, he 
accepted the nature  of the investments he was making. But as Ive already  said,  I dont think  
Mr S would have properly appreciated the risks of the investments Portafina was 
recommending. Especially not to the extent  that he wouldve  been  able to make an informed 
choice about what he was agreeing to. Portafina was advising Mr S and it was the expert. So 
it was reasonable  for Mr S to rely on the advice and suitability of the recommendation from 
Portafina. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S in the position, or as 
close as can reasonably be achieved, he should  be in, but for the unsuitable advice. Here, 
had he been suitably advised, I dont  think he would have  transferred his four pensions and 
gone on to make the recommended investments. His pensions wouldve remained invested  
where they were. I am satisfied Mr S wouldve retained his policies with GARs attached  to 
them. 
What Ive referred to as a GAR above (and Portafina has also referred to as a GAR) appears 
to provide Mr S with a guaranteed income at retirement, to which annual bonuses  (and 
potentially a final bonus) are added.  There is no contractual entitlement to a fund value but a 
cash equivalent transfer value of this guaranteed income may be paid. 
 
My understanding is that existing bonuses and the likelihood  of any future bonus would be 
taken into account  in the providers calculation of the transfer value. And all other  things 
being equal, the closer Mr S get to retirement the higher the transfer value  would be - 
because the date at which the provider will have  to honour those guarantees is nearer. So I 
would expect the current transfer vale of Mr Ss policies to reflect  the guarantees he has lost.
what should  Portafina  do?
To determine any loss Mr S has suffered Portafina should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer values  of Mr S four pension plans if they had not been 
transferred to the SIPP and remained invested where they were.  That should  be the 
values at the date of my decision.  
2.Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of my decision of Mr S SIPP, including  any 
outstanding charges.
3.Pay a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider to purchase any illiquid 
investments. If Portafina is unable  to purchase  the investments, they should be given 
a nil value for the purpose of the calculation.
4.And then pay an amount into Mr S SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to 
equal the value calculated  in (1). This payment should take account of any available 
tax relief and the effect of charges. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
SIPP if it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN61661579If Mr S is unable  to close his SIPP once compensation has been  paid (which may be 
possible where illiquid investments remain), Portafina should pay an amount into the SIPP  
equivalent to five years  worth of the fees (based on the most  recent  years  fees)  that will be 
payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr S would not be in the SIPP but for Portafinas 
unsuitable advice.  So it would not be fair for him to have to pay fees to keep it open. And I 
am satisfied  five years would allow sufficient time for any issues  with illiquid investments to 
be sorted out, and the SIPP to be closed.
If Portafina is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr S SIPP,  it should pay that amount 
direct to him as a lump sum. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore, the compensation should  be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr S hasnt  yet taken any tax-free cash from his SIPP, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been  taxed according to his likely income  tax rate in retirement   
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
Simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross  a year from the date of my 
decision to the date of settlement.
trouble & upset 
Portafina should pay Mr S £250 for the trouble and upset caused as a consequence of the 
unsuitable advice  he received. I think that a payment of £250  is fair to compensate him for 
that distress.
I invited Mr S and Portafina to respond  to my provisional decision. Mr S responded agreeing  
with my provisional findings.  Portafina responded saying Mr S wasnt  invested in any illiquid 
or non-mainstream  funds. It provided  details of Mr S current investment portfolio and 
requested that I reconsider  my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, my decision remains  
broadly the same as before (and as set out above). That means Im upholding Mr S 
complaint for the reasons Ive previously given.  However, Ill respond to the point Portafina 
made following my provisional decision.
Based on Portafinas  13 January 2014  suitability letter, my understanding was that in 
addition to advising Mr S switch to a SIPP,  it also recommended he invest  in the following 
funds:
-Lakeview UK Investments  8.3%
-Marbella Resort & Spa  7.96%
-Real Estate Investments USA  8.38%
-Motion Picture Global Investments  7.96%
-Strategic Residential  Developments  8.38%
-Tambaba Developments PLC  7.96%
Ref: DRN616615710-Invesco Perpetual Distribution Gross  Acc  10.19%
-Invesco Perpetual High Yield  Acc - 10.19%
-Kames Ethical Cautious Managed B Acc - 10.19%
-AXA Ethical Distribution Acc- 10.19%
-Cash - 10.22%
However, as explained  in the background of my provisional decision,  some of the 
recommended funds became unavailable. Because of this, Portafinas 9 March  2015 letter 
set out its revised  fund recommendations:
-Lakeview UK Investments  12.5%
-Real Estate Investments USA  10%
-Strategic Residential  Developments  7.5%
-Invesco Perpetual Distribution Gross  Acc  16%
-Invesco Perpetual High Yield  Acc  15.75%
-Kames Ethical Cautious Managed B Acc  16.64%
-AXA Ethical Distribution Acc- 16.53%
-Cash  4.9%
In response to the investigators assessment of Mr S complaint, Portafina said:
After further  investigation () I can confirm  that [Mr S] has been only invested in 
Dimensional funds  (Liquid) and Cash since January 2016 ()
Having been asked whether this changed  the investigators view on the matter, she 
confirmed it hadnt  as key issue to determine was the suitability of Portafinas  2014 advice, 
not where Mr S was invested from 2016 onwards. 
Ive looked at the available evidence again and can see that in October 2015 Portafina 
advised Mr S to change  his investments  to the following:
-Dimensional Global  Short-Dated  Bond Fund   15%
-Dimensional World Equity Fund   72.5%
-Henderson UK Property Fund  4.5%
-Premier Pan European Property   3%
-Cash  5%
My understanding is that the above change to Mr S investments was finalised in early  2016. 
Like the investigator, my view remains that Portafina gave Mr S unsuitable advice in 2014. 
Adjustments made to Mr S investment portfolio  in 2016 along with the current position of the 
funds Mr S is invested in doesnt in my view alter this. 
Although, in my provisional decision,  I said I didnt  think the combination of funds Portafina 
recommended  some of which  I understood were illiquid property bonds  were suitable, I 
also said Mr S only made these investments as a result of Portafinas  unsuitable advice that 
he switch to a SIPP.  Were  it not for Portafinas  switch recommendation in the first place I 
dont believe  Mr S wouldve gone on to make the subsequent investments. Whether the 
funds were illiquid, non mainstream or otherwise  doesnt change that.
To be clear, my finding that Portafinas 2014  advice was unsuitable  doesnt  turn on where  
Portafina recommended Mr S invest his money.  As explained previously, there are other 
Ref: DRN616615711reasons which  led me to this conclusion, most of which relate  to the switch  itself. For 
example:
I didnt agree Mr S was a balanced  investor and therefore willing and able to bear the 
risk Portafinas recommendation subjected the majority of his pension  provision  to. 
Based on Mr S experience and circumstances, I thought  it was more reasonable to 
conclude he was a relatively cautious/low risk investor. And because of this, I didnt 
think he was in a position to switch  and give up the guarantees built into his existing 
pensions; these  wouldve  provided  some security in retirement when he didnt appear 
to have other realisable assets 
I saw nothing to indicate the growth required to match Mr S guaranteed benefits was 
likely to be achieved as a result of the switch 
I wasnt persuaded accessing TFC at age 55 and deferring taking a regular  income 
until age 65 was a compelling reason for the switch or that it was explained  what  this 
meant in practical  terms for Mr S.
The overall cost of the switch resulted in a sizable reduction to Mr S modest transfer 
value and the ongoing charges  of SIPP were  higher  than Mr S existing pensions.  I 
thought there was limited prospect of making up the cost of the switch via investment 
growth without taking significant risks Mr S didnt have  capacity to take
I didnt find anything  to indicate  Mr S was unhappy with his existing pensions such  
that he wanted or needed to take additional  risks with his pensions
While I note that from 2016 onwards Mr S was advised to invest largely in international  
equities, global bonds and property, this doesnt change my position that Portafinas 2014  
advice that Mr S switch  to a SIPP was unsuitable. I do however accept that any changes 
made to Mr S portfolio after Portafinas initial advice  may impact  the level of compensation 
Mr S is ultimately due. Ive made provisions for the fact that Mr S may not hold illiquid 
investments in the redress  Ive set out below.  
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S in the position, or as 
close as can reasonably be achieved, he should  be in, but for the unsuitable advice. Here, 
had he been suitably advised, I dont  think he would have  transferred his four pensions and 
gone on to make the recommended investments. His pensions wouldve remained invested  
where they were. I am satisfied Mr S wouldve retained his policies with GARs attached  to 
them. 
What Ive referred to as a GAR above (and Portafina has also referred to as a GAR) appears 
to provide Mr S with a guaranteed income at retirement, to which annual bonuses  (and 
potentially a final bonus) are added.  There is no contractual entitlement to a fund value but a 
cash equivalent transfer value of this guaranteed income may be paid. 
 
My understanding is that existing bonuses and the likelihood  of any future bonus would be 
taken into account  in the providers calculation of the transfer value. And all other  things 
being equal, the closer Mr S get to retirement the higher the transfer value  would be - 
because the date at which the provider will have  to honour those guarantees is nearer. So I 
would expect the current transfer vale of Mr Ss policies to reflect  the guarantees he has lost.
what should  Portafina  do?
To determine any loss Mr S has suffered Portafina should:
Ref: DRN6166157121.Obtain the notional transfer values  of Mr S four pension plans if they had not been 
transferred to the SIPP and remained invested where they were.  That should  be the 
values at the date of my decision.  
2.Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of my decision of Mr S SIPP, including  any 
outstanding charges.
3.Where applicable,  pay a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider  to 
purchase any illiquid investments. If Portafina  is unable to purchase the investments,  
they should be given a nil value for the purpose of the calculation.
4.And then pay an amount into Mr S SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to 
equal the value calculated  in (1). This payment should take account of any available 
tax relief and the effect of charges. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
SIPP if it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Mr S is unable  to close his SIPP once compensation has been  paid (which may be 
possible if illiquid investments remain),  Portafina  should pay an amount into the SIPP 
equivalent to five years  worth of the fees (based on the most  recent  years  fees)  that will be 
payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr S would not be in the SIPP but for Portafinas 
unsuitable advice.  So it would not be fair for him to have to pay fees to keep it open. And I 
am satisfied  five years would allow sufficient time for any issues  with illiquid investments to 
be sorted out, and the SIPP to be closed.
If Portafina is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr S SIPP,  it should pay that amount 
direct to him as a lump sum. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore, the compensation should  be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr S hasnt  yet taken any tax-free cash from his SIPP, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been  taxed according to his likely income  tax rate in retirement   
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
Simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross  a year from the date of my 
decision to the date of settlement.
trouble & upset 
Portafina should pay Mr S £250 for the trouble and upset caused as a consequence of the 
unsuitable advice  he received. I think that a payment of £250  is fair to compensate him for 
that distress.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to calculate and pay compensation as set 
out above.
Ref: DRN616615713Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2020.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6166157