K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Ms U are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont pay their 
contents insurance claim for accidental damage  to a shutter fitted  to their front door.
background
Mr F and Ms U made a claim to RSA after a shutter  fitted to their front door was accidentally 
damaged after Mr F fell onto it. They had a contents policy,  their building  being insured  by 
the freeholder.  They supplied the dimensions and a quote for replacement of the damaged 
panel to RSA. After  consideration  of the claim RSA advised Mr F and Ms U that it considered  
the shutter  to be part of the building and not covered under their contents  policy.
 Mr F and Ms U objected to this, pointing out that the building  management company 
considered the shutter to be part of their contents,  as it wasnt installed by the original 
builder. Rather  Mr F and Ms U had had the shutter installed themselves. 
RSA offered £50 compensation  for its delay in coming back with the claim decision but 
maintained its position  regarding  the claim. Mr F and Ms U rejected this.
Mr F and Ms U referred their complaint to this service, pointing  out that they had since  heard 
that the buildings insurer wouldnt cover the claim.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, advising that he thought  RSAs  position was 
correct  the shutter was in his view a permanent  fixture and couldnt be considered to be 
part of the contents.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has rejected Mr F and Ms Us claim on the basis that the shutter in question  was 
bespoke for the door in question and that it was permanently fixed to the frame. From 
reviewing the descriptions of it and a couple  of photos the hinges of the shutter are clearly  
screwed into the door frame. I would say it should  be regarded as a fixture and therefore part 
of the building, like fitted units and appliances.  It couldnt be moved without using tools  to 
detach it from the door frame.
Contents policies  generally cover  items  which are portable and can be removed easily  to 
another property.  I know there can be exceptions to this, such  as some fitted carpets.  And 
some contents policies can cover tenants  fixtures and fittings. But in the latter case it would 
have to be set out in the policy that those items  are specifically  covered. The policy here 
covers contents as they are usually defined. And I dont think that the shutter comes under 
the contents.
I appreciate that Mr F and Ms U have been  told differently by the building managers but I 
dont think that something  would be classified  as part of the contents by the fact that it was 
installed or added after the property was built. I understand  that Mr F and Ms U have now 
been told that the buildings  insurer wont cover the loss. I havent seen the buildings policy 
so I dont know if there are any specific exclusions in it or why it wont cover  the claim.  All I 
Ref: DRN61163012can say is that, for most household contents  policies (including  the one that Mr F and Ms U 
have) the shutter wouldnt in my view be covered. 
With regard to compensation there  was a slight delay by RSA in giving Mr F and Ms U its 
final decision  on the claim - this took nearly  two months.  And this was partly because  it had 
to clarify with the blind  manufacturers the nature of the fixing of the shutter.  I note that RSA 
offered £50 compensation which I think is reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Ms U to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6116301