K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly  charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.  
background
In December 2013, Mr A acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement  from 
BMWFS. The total repayable under  the agreement was £58,513.91.  Mr A was required to 
make 47 monthly payments of £826.74 and there  was a final optional payment of £19,657.13  
if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr A had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£29,256.96.
In June 2017, Mr A chose  to exercise  his right to terminate the agreement early.  After Mr A 
handed the car back, BMWFS later charged  him a further £5,765.72 as he had exceeded the 
mileage allowance  on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr A had an annual mileage allowance  of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 32,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge him 13.5 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance  by. It said that in the 
event he terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr A didnt think this charge was fair. He said that the termination section of the agreement 
didnt state that BMWFS could charge anything more than £29,256.96,  as set out by Section 
99 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).  He said when he took out the agreement, the 
salesperson at the dealership told him if hed paid more than half he wouldnt be liable for 
any excess mileage charges. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that BMWFS  
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the CCA. She also found that the terms of the agreement  were 
clear around  the possibility of an excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary 
termination.
In summary,  she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination.  
In brief,  on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least  half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total  price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable  under 
the hire purchase  agreement. It does not include charges  for items that are payable 
as compensation  for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
Ref: DRN60467862The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr As agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr As accrued liability under S100 therefore  included 
paying an additional amount of £5,765.72.
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, she was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional  amount. 
Lastly, she said that even if she thought Mr A had been misled  about the terms of the 
agreement before entering  into it, she wasnt persuaded this had caused  him a loss. 
This was because she thought it was likely Mr A would have entered into the 
agreement anyway,  even if he had been given  clear and accurate information. 
Mr A disagreed and said the charge wasnt fair. He said the Termination: Your rights 
section of the agreement and S99 of the CCA  made it clear that no further  charges could be 
applied if hed paid at least £29,256.96, which he had. He said other terms within the 
agreement contradicted the terms in this section and that the termination your rights  section 
should override  any other terms. Therefore, he said BMWFS were not legally entitled to 
charge him more.  He said the agreement  doesnt mention S100 and it is unreasonable  to 
have expected him to have understand the entirety  of the CCA.  
He said that after returning the car, he saw it advertised for sale at a higher price than what  
had been left to pay on his finance  agreement. He said this demonstrated that exceeding the 
mileage allowance  on the agreement hadnt caused  any diminution in value to the car and 
BMWFS were therefore just applying a penalty  charge for ending the agreement early.   
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mr A use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£19,657.13. While Mr A was entitled to use the car, that use was subject  to certain  
conditions, such as maintaining and taking  care of the car and only driving  a maximum 
mileage each year and overall  throughout the lifetime of the agreement.  The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mr A not meet  those  requirements.
Mr A exercised his right to voluntarily terminate  the agreement. In some  instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay anything more.  
Ref: DRN60467863But this is dependant on, amongst other  things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid,  the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges  are due. 
In this case Mr A accepts that he was required to pay at least £29,256.96 to voluntary 
terminate the agreement.  But he disputes  the excess mileage charge of £5,765.72 that has 
been added  on top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The Termination:  Your rights section 
of Mr As hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability  that is due on termination and in 
his case, that was £29,256.96.  Various sections of the agreement Mr A had with BMWFS 
also referred to the liability on early  termination, including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability.
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means  is that Mr A is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr As hire purchase  agreement has a section headed:  Excess  mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your  obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination . Im satisfied 
Mr As agreement  is worded clearly  in setting out when  excess  mileage charges accrue. 
However, Mr A has referred  to the section  of the agreement headed Termination: your 
rights. This section contains  specific wording which BMWFS were  required to include in the 
agreement, and in summary sets out that so long as Mr A has paid at least half the total 
amount payable under the agreement, he will not have to pay any more.  Mr A argues  that 
the wording of this clause  is clear and means BMWFS cant  charge for excess mileage. He 
says that it contradicts the other terms in the agreement regarding  excess mileage and it is 
therefore unfair for BMWFS to rely on it. 
Ive therefore  thought  about whether this term conflicts with the rest of the terms of the 
agreement, specifically those terms that explain charges for exceeding the mileage might 
apply. In other words,  what I have  to decide  is, has the agreement been constructed in a 
way as to allow the charging  for excess mileage  without contravening what  is set out in the 
CCA regarding voluntary  termination and are those terms clear? In Mr As specific case, 
I think it has. Ill explain why. 
Mr A says the other  terms of the agreement should  be effectively treated as void as the 
Termination: Your rights  section overrides them. I disagree. While certain agreements  can 
include terms, which set out consumers statutory rights  such  as those in S99  and it 
might be considered unfair for a business to contract out those rights,  I dont think  that is 
whats happened here. 
The Termination: Your rights section  contains  wording that BMWFS were required to 
include. BMWFS were  not entitled to amend that wording.  However, that doesnt mean they 
couldnt include additional  wording or terms within the agreement  that supplemented this 
Ref: DRN60467864section. And importantly, they could include wording entitling them to charge additional 
charges which  might  be allowed under S99 of the CCA. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, rather than focussing  narrowly  on 
one term in isolation, I dont think the agreement is either unclear or misleading concerning 
the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains that the excess mileage charge can be 
applied in addition  to other  charges for voluntary termination. I dont therefore consider that 
the way this specific agreement has been constructed has prejudiced Mr A.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mr A is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
I note Mr A says that the salesperson assured him that BMWFS wouldnt charge him excess 
mileage if hed paid at least half the total repayable under the agreement. Even  if I accept 
Mr A was told this, it doesnt  automatically  mean the complaint should be upheld. This is 
because Im not persuaded Mr A would have acted any differently even if he had been  given  
accurate and clear  information at the outset. 
I say this because  Mr A has said that he never  intended to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. Hes said his intention was to keep  the car at the end of the agreement,  in which  
case a mileage charge  would never  have been  applied. Hes said he had the car built to his 
requested specification and wasnt concerned about  the low mileage on the agreement  
because his intention  was to buy the car at the end. He said he understood that the low 
mileage allowance  was applied to keep his monthly  repayments lower. I therefore think  its 
more likely than not Mr A would still have entered  into this agreement even if he had been 
given clear and accurate  information about  the excess mileage charge. 
Lastly, Mr A says that there was no diminution  in value of the car due to him exceeding the 
mileage allowance. He says BMWFS are charging it as a penalty for ending  the agreement 
early. But I dont agree. As Ive set out, I think the terms of the agreement were  clear and not 
misleading about when the charge will be applied. Had Mr A not exceeded the mileage  
allowance, no charge would have been levied. I also note from the terms of the agreement  
that an excess mileage charge would be payable at the end of the agreement had Mr A not 
proceeded with the option to purchase the car and therefore handed the car back.  The 
excess mileage rate is the same whether the agreement ends early under  voluntary 
termination or once  the agreement ends and the car is handed back. It is therefore not 
something which is charged as a penalty for ending the agreement  early. 
Further, it is widely accepted that the mileage of a car, amongst a variety  of other things 
about the car and general market  conditions, will affect its value,  so I dont think its 
unreasonable for BMWFS  to say this is what the charge is for. However, whether the charge 
exactly corresponds with the actual diminution in value of the car is largely  irrelevant. This is 
because I think the terms of the agreement are clear and not misleading  about what charge  
will be applied  and in what circumstances. As Mr A entered into the agreement, it is taken 
that he read, understood and accepted those terms.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021.
Ref: DRN60467865Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6046786