K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC has declined a claim under his personal 
watercraft policy.
background
Mr N made  a claim to Zurich for damage to his boat. He said hed been out on a river and 
was travelling at about 60mph when he saw what looked  like a log floating just below the 
surface of the water. He tried to avoid hitting  it and was thrown out of the boat. The boat 
capsized and took on a lot of water. It was towed ashore  and drained  of water.  Mr N says he 
couldnt start the engine after that. The boat was taken  to a repairers.
Zurich appointed an independent  surveyor  to inspect  the boat. He said there were no signs  
of impact or damage to the hull or superstructure of the boat which hed have expected  if a 
boat had hit an object at about 60mph. He thought thered been  mechanical failure to the 
engine while it was travelling at speed and that had caused Mr N to fall off. Mechanical  
failure isnt covered by Mr Ns policy.
As Mr N wasnt happy with that, Zurich said it would appoint another independent surveyor 
to review the damage. It said it wouldnt give the new surveyor any information  about the first 
surveyors findings so that the matter could be considered afresh. The second  surveyor  also 
noted there was no visible  damage  to the hull. He said it wasnt possible for him to say what 
had caused water to get into the engine.  He thought if the boat had been properly 
maintained and if the engine cut-out  device  (which stops the engine when theres no driver in 
the boat) was used  properly, water shouldnt have  been able to get into the engine. Zurich  
didnt change its decision to decline  the claim.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  didnt think Mr N had shown that 
the damage to the engine was caused by one of the events covered by the policy.  So he 
didnt uphold  the complaint.
As Mr N didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns policy  doesnt cover loss or damage  to the boats  machinery  unless thats caused by 
water accidentally getting into the hull, the boat sinking or hitting something  or other  causes 
not relevant to this complaint. 
Zurichs first surveyor said that it was highly unlikely Mr Ns boat would hit an object at about  
60mph without its hull showing some signs of damage. The surveyor didnt consider the 
damage sustained  to the engine was consistent with Mr Ns description of how the damage 
happened. He said:
 It is our opinion  that the engine bas failed  at speed whereby the insured has subsequently 
fallen off. This has resulted in water entering  the craft as it rolled  over.
He didnt think water in the engine was the main  cause of mechanical  failure.  
Ref: DRN67367492The second  surveyor  also said there was no damage to the hull. So, on balance, I dont think  
Mr N has shown the damage was caused  by an insured event.  
But even if there  were an insured event, the claim would  still be excluded because  the policy  
doesnt cover loss or damage to the boat caused  by wear and tear. It also doesnt  cover the 
kill cord not being  attached to the driver in the correct manner or being inoperative.
Zurichs second surveyor said because the engine had been completely dismantled by the 
time he inspected it, he couldnt say how water  had got into the engine. But having consulted  
the manufacturers operating manual he said:
If the craft was properly maintained and the kill cord was being used properly there is no 
reason that can be readily identified as to why water would enter the engine.
Mr N said he was wearing a kill cord but it had snapped during the accident. He thought that 
might have been why the engine continued running after hed left the craft. His repairer  said 
that after the craft overturned, if the engine was still running, water would be sucked into 
engine through  the air inlets.  His repairer said the damage was consistent with water getting 
into the engine  while it was running at speed.  Zurich responded that Mr Ns boat was 
designed so that when  it tipped over, the engine would  automatically stop.
Overall I find the evidence from Zurichs surveyors to be more persuasive than that of Mr Ns 
repairer. Thats because  theyre professionally qualified marine surveyors  as opposed to 
experienced technicians. I think its reasonable for an insurer to rely on expert evidence to 
decline a claim unless  that evidence is obviously wrong. In this case  Zurich  took the 
precaution of obtaining a second  experts report before making  a final decision.  I think Zurich 
acted fairly  and reasonably in relying  on the expert opinion of its surveyors  to decline Mr Ns 
claim.
Mr N thinks Zurich should carry out tests on the kill cord and the electrics on the boat which  
in his view would support his claim. But its for Mr N in the first instance to show that he has 
a valid claim.  Since he hasnt been  able to do this, Zurich doesnt have to consider  the 
matter further. I dont think it would be fair to require Zurich to carry out any further 
investigations into the cause of the damage.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6736749