K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  blocked a payment.
background
Mr T tried to make a £2,500 payment online on 15 June 2018.  When  he realised the 
payment hadnt  been made,  he contacted Nationwide and was told the payment had been  
stopped as a potentially  fraudulent transaction. After  he told Nationwide hed made  the 
payment intentionally,  he was told he could  make the payment again 45 minutes  later. 
Mr T is extremely unhappy  about what happened. He says Nationwide shouldve  contacted  
him to tell him that the payment had been blocked, and that the blocking of the payment 
wasnt justified. He says he has a very stressful  job, and didnt have  the time to wait 45 
minutes to make the payment  again.  He was also under pressure to make the payment by a 
specific time.
Nationwide told us it was concerned that the payment was connected to a scam. So the 
payment was immediately  declined and Mr T was given a phone number and reference to 
contact it for assistance. Mr T is adamant that he didnt get this message.
Our investigators looked into what happened. Although they understood why Mr T was so 
annoyed about what happened, they said that Nationwides  fraud  prevention system was 
triggered when  the payment was made. So it was entitled to block  the payment. They  
appreciated that Mr T thought he shouldve  been contacted directly about the payment, but 
they said that whether he was or not, its not in dispute that Mr T contacted Nationwide  
promptly after the payment was made,  so this didnt make a difference anyway. As they 
didnt think Nationwide  had made  a mistake, they didnt think it needed to do anything  to 
resolve this complaint. 
Mr T disagreed. He asked  for £200  compensation and for his complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion our investigators have reached for broadly  the same reasons. Ill explain  why.
Before I do, I should say that Im conscious that Mr T has made  a number of points, and 
asked me to address each one individually  in numerical order.  I understand  why he has 
asked me to do this, but this service is an informal dispute resolution service.  My role is to 
form a view about the central issues in this complaint, and resolve it in a way thats fair and 
reasonable. So Im afraid I havent  addressed each of Mr Ts points  in numerical order.  I 
hope he doesnt consider  that to be a discourtesy.
Nationwide has told us that its security system was triggered by the payment, so it was 
blocked. I appreciate  how much this annoyed Mr T, but Im satisfied that Nationwide  was 
entitled to block  the payment in the circumstances. So I cant  say that it made a mistake on 
this point. 
Ref: DRN66645952Nationwide says Mr T was given a phone number  and reference number when the payment 
was declined, so he could speak to it about the payment. But Mr T told us that no such  
message appeared online.  So he didnt receive this message.  He says Nationwide  shouldve 
contacted him directly  about the payment. Its not clear to me from the evidence that has 
been provided whether this information was sent to Mr T. However, theres no dispute that 
Mr T contacted Nationwide promptly after he tried to make the £2,500  payment  anyway.  So I 
dont think this point  substantively affected  the amount of time it took for the payment to be 
made.
Where payments are stopped by business  security  systems its usual for businesses  to 
simply unblock them after a customer says they made the payment intentionally. This means 
that consumers  dont need to make the payments  again. But Nationwide told us that if it had 
unblocked the payment, it wouldve taken around another two hours  for it to be made. As 
Mr T wanted to make  the payment by a specific time, it told him he could make the payment 
again himself in 45 minutes. Nationwide has told us that its systems take 45 minutes to reset 
once a payment  has been blocked.
Mr T says he was extremely busy at work  on the relevant day, and didnt have time to make 
the payment again. He doesnt  think Nationwide took that on board. I understand 
Mr Ts point  of view. However, I disagree. Im persuaded that Mr T was told to make the 
payment again  to ensure  that the payment  was made on time.
Taking the matter  as a whole, I dont underestimate Mr Ts strength of feeling about what  
happened. However, I cant  say that Nationwide did anything wrong here. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  it needs  to compensate Mr T to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6664595