K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly declined a 
claim under his home insurance policy for storm damage to his garage door.
background
Mr D said on 1 March 2018  there  was a wind storm in his local area and that blew his up 
and over electric garage door past the furthest point it could be lifted  to, knocking the 
internal cover box inside  which contained the braking mechanism. He said two garage 
installation/repair engineers had confirmed that the automatic braking system had been 
damaged beyond repair by the storm.
He made  a claim to RSA.  It sent an agent  to inspect the damage.  The agent didnt think the 
damage had been  caused by a storm. Mr D says the agent only carried out a visual 
inspection.
RSA declined the claim as it said there was no evidence of storm damage.  RSA also said 
there hadnt been a storm on or around  the relevant  date.
Mr D complained to RSA. It said it would consider the damage as an accidental  damage 
claim and sent the agent out to do another inspection. The agent said there was evidence  of 
poor workmanship rather than accidental damage. So RSA didnt change its decision to 
decline the claim. It thought the garage  door had failed due to a combination  of mechanical 
or electrical  failure, faulty workmanship  and wear  and tear and said none  of these were 
covered by his policy.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold it. He checked the 
weather reports for Mr Ds property at the relevant time and found that there  werent storm 
conditions. He didnt  think RSA had acted unfairly in declining an accidental  damage claim 
since the accidental  damage cover  excluded poor workmanship  and its agent  had found  
evidence of that.
As Mr D didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at a storm claim  complaint,  the first thing I consider is whether there were 
storm conditions on or around  the date the damage is said to have happened. If there 
werent, then a storm cant be said to have  caused the damage.
Mr Ds policy  defines a storm as strong  winds of 47mph or more. I dont think thats  an 
unreasonable definition.
A key piece of evidence  to decide whether there was a storm will usually be weather reports.  
Weve checked  these and they show that the highest reading  for Mr Ds postcode around the 
date in question  was gusts of 44mph. I appreciate  that according to Mr D four of the seven 
houses in his cul-de-sac suffered storm damage at that time. But based on the above, while  I 
Ref: DRN61378792accept there  was bad weather at the relevant time,  Im not convinced it amounted to a storm 
as defined by Mr Ds policy.  That means  the damage couldnt have been caused by a storm.
Mr Ds policy  includes cover for accidental damage  to buildings  which is defined as 
unexpected physical damage  caused  suddenly by identifiable external means and not 
deliberately. The damage reported  by Mr D to his garage door could fall within  this definition.  
But the accidental  damage cover excludes  damage arising from faulty workmanship, 
defective design or use of defective materials. Neither does it cover mechanical  or electrical  
breakdown or failure. Theres also a general exclusion in his policy  for damage caused by 
wear and tear.
Mr D says that there was mechanical damage  rather than physical damage to the door. His 
expert said:
It appears  that high winds in the area at that time most likely  dama ged the outer  box casing  
which could easily have caused  the door to jam resulting in the damage.
RSAs agent said he couldnt see how this had happened  since  the internal cover was 
protected by timbers  and cladding. He said there was clear  evidence of poor workmanship 
as the original installer had fitted  steel guides to the timber  door frame.  The steel  guides had 
a large bow in them and he thought that had caused  general  wear and tear on the motor.
I think the conclusions  of RSAs agent  are more persuasive. Thats  for two reasons. Firstly,  
Mr Ds expert appears to be speculating as to the cause  of the damage.  Also if the impact  of 
the garage door on the cover  box was so severe as to damage the braking mechanism 
within, Id expect there to be some  visible damage  to the cover box. Mr D agreed that there 
was limited visible damage.  Finally its agreed  that the braking system isnt working properly 
and thats a mechanical or electrical failure which isnt covered by the policy.
Overall, Im satisfied RSA has reasonably applied the terms of its policy in declining  Mr Ds 
claim.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6137879