K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains Scottish Widows Limited removed a terminal bonus relating to former 
protected rights premiums from his pension. He says this led to Scottish Widows giving him 
incorrect valuations of his pension and caused him a financial loss during his divorce  
proceedings.
background
Mr G held a personal pension with Scottish  Widows invested in a with-profits fund since  
1988. When Mr G first made contributions to this pension,  he contracted  out of the 
State Earnings-Related  Pension  Scheme  (SERPS). So, the government paid his extra 
National Insurance contributions into his Scottish  Widows personal pension. This was known 
as a protected rights pension. The ability to contract out of SERPS stopped in 2012.
Mr Gs pension was also subject to annual and terminal bonuses.
Scottish Widows  sent Mr G annual statements throughout  the years, many of which  noted a 
terminal bonus on the protected rights element of his pension. But in 2018 Mr Gs statement 
didnt show any terminal bonus  relating  to the former protected rights of his pension. So, he 
queried this with Scottish Widows. Mr G also told Scottish Widows  that the valuation of his 
pension had been crucial in his divorce  proceedings in 2015.
Scottish Widows  wrote  to Mr G in July 2018 saying that there  were  no protected  rights 
benefits held under this policy. They said Mr Gs protected rights  benefits had been 
transferred away to another Scottish Widows policy  in August 1999.  
Mr G complained to Scottish  Widows.  He was concerned Scottish Widows had withdrawn 
the bonus, of around £20,000  in error.  He asked  for an up to date valuation and 
conformation that he hadnt lost the terminal bonus. 
In their response, Scottish  Widows said the protected rights amount of £22,217.89  was 
transferred away into another policy belonging to Mr G in 1999.  They  said due to issues  with 
their systems the statements were  still including the terminal  bonus  of the protected rights 
which had been  transferred away. They failed  to notice this when providing Mr G with 
valuations of his policy which  led to a loss in expectation. Scottish Widows offered Mr G 
£150 in recognition of the upset and frustration they had caused. 
Mr G remained  unhappy as he felt he was still entitled to the terminal  bonus  for his former 
protected rights contributions.  He asked for a full list of contributions as well as details about  
his divorce valuation. 
Scottish Widows  wrote  to Mr G again  in August 2018. They said their previous letter  included  
inaccurate information. Scottish Widows  explained that although Mr Gs protected  rights 
benefits were transferred  to a different policy in 1999, they still accrued bonuses  and 
benefits within that policy, so they said Mr G hadnt  lost out financially. They  provided an up 
to date valuation  of Mr Gs policy but said no monies  had been settled from this account to 
Mr Gs ex-wife. Scottish Widows offered Mr G a further £50 for the continued poor service 
theyd given. 
Mr G remained  unhappy with Scottish  Widows responses so brought  his complaint to our 
service. Scottish Widows  said that, on review, they didnt feel theyd addressed all of Mr Gs 
Ref: DRN67506132complaint points. Scottish Widows provided a breakdown of Mr Gs contributions to his policy 
which they say showed Mr G transferred his former protected  rights benefits in 1999.
Scottish Widows  also investigated Mr Gs divorce  settlement. They  acknowledged that the 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £265,802.20 provided to the consultants working  
on behalf of the courts  in 2015 was incorrect. They recalculated the correct value at the time 
as £252,356.51.  So, a £13,445.69  difference. Scottish Widows provided a copy  of the 
financial remedy order that showed Mr G had been ordered to pay 41.3% of one of his 
pension policies to his ex-wife. They said to put Mr G back  into the correct position  they 
would reinstate 41.3% of £13,445.69 into one of Mr Gs policies from the date of the transfer 
in 2016.
Mr G disagreed with Scottish  Widows remedy, he said the courts  had ordered an equal 
division of pensions  between him and with his ex-wife. So, the 41.3% was based on 
incorrect figures from Scottish Widows. He said, had they provided the correct value to the 
consultants, he would  have had to pay his ex-wife a lower percentage of his pension in order  
to equalise their funds. Therefore, he felt the actual redress he should be owed would be 
closer to 50% of the £13,445.69.
Mr G said that over the years hed been  persuaded to remain  in his Scottish Widows fund 
due to the terminal bonuses he was due. So, he thought Scottish Widows should 
compensate him for the missed opportunity he had of transferring his pension into a higher 
performing fund. Mr G also said hed been dealing  with the complaint himself  without 
employing professional  help and overall  felt that compensation  in the region of £20,000 
would be fair. 
I sent Mr G and Scottish Widows my first provisional decision on 7 May 2021. I said I thought  
Mr G had transferred his protected rights  benefits in 1999. But Scottish Widows error had 
meant Mr G was sent incorrect valuations of his pension  over many years. And that led to a 
loss for Mr G when the courts calculated the financial remedy  order  for his divorce. 
Mr G made  a further submission for my consideration.  In it he said Scottish  Widows method  
of reinstating 41.3%  of £13,445.69 ignored the plan growth between  the plans valuation  in 
July 2015 and the date the settlement to his ex-wife was paid in September  2016. Mr G also 
gave a further account of why he felt the redress should be based on reinstating 50% of the 
overstated valuation.  He provided further email correspondence from the consultants  acting 
on behalf of the court  which he was sent in 2015.
Based on the responses to my first provisional decision, I sent out a further provisional 
decision on 7 July 2021. In it I said I thought that on balance, Mr Gs losses  were likely to 
have been 50% of the overstated valuation of his pension used in the divorce settlement. I 
also set out a way in which I thought  the funds growth could fairly be added to the 
compensation Scottish Widow needed  to pay. For ease,  Ive included the relevant parts of 
both of my provisional decisions  below.   
my provisional findings 
In my provisional decisions I addressed the issues as follows;
Did Mr G transfer his protected  rights  benefits in 1999? 
Ref: DRN67506133Scottish Widows  have  provided a contribution statement for Mr Gs policy  since  its opening 
in 1988. The statement  shows regular  contributions  from Mr G along with government 
rebates and tax relief.  The rebates  continued from 1988 until the last one dated in 
April 1999. 
I can see from the statement that in August 1999 many  of the units  attached to government  
rebates and tax relief  were sold. Scottish Widows  say the funds were  transferred to a new 
policy Mr G held with them. And I havent seen any evidence that leads me to think thats 
incorrect. Scottish Widows say a total of £22,217.89 (all protected  rights) were  transferred to 
the new policy. That was made up of £18,803.98 of unit value and £3,413.91  of terminal  
bonus. Scottish Widows say a balance of £248.34  was also transferred in 2002 when this 
sum was received  from the HMRC.  Scottish Widows say when the units  were transferred 
into Mr Gs new policy, they continued  to attract annual and terminal  bonuses. And Ive seen 
that in 2015 the new fund was valued at around  £58,000.
From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mr G lost the terminal bonus attached to his 
protected rights contributions,  they were just transferred to a different policy. 
Scottish Widows  error here was that they continued  to include the terminal  bonus of the 
protected rights units on the original policy when sending Mr G annual statements and ad 
hoc valuations over the phone. And that happened  over many years. So, Mr G believed his 
fund was worth more than it was. 
It wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask Scottish  Widows  to increase Mr Gs fund to a value it 
wouldnt have ever had. But I can ask Scottish Widows to compensate  him for the impact  of 
their mistake.  And its clear Scottish  Widows  error had the knock  on effect  that led to a 
financial loss and caused Mr G considerable distress  and inconvenience.  
Mr Gs loses
In his response to my first provisional decision,  Mr G provided emails  from the consultants 
acting on behalf  of the court. The consultants emails say that Mr Gs ex-wife  was to receive 
pensions credit totalling £109,650. In order to do that Mr G needed to pay 41.3% of the 
largest pension  plan he held with Scottish  Widows (Plan 1). But Mr G also held two further 
pension plans with Scottish Widows, both smaller  than the first. 
When Mr G settled the order  in September 2016,  the consultants allowed him to use 100% 
of his second plan (Plan 2) and 78% of his third plan (Plan 3), in order  to produce the same 
total amount of pension credit to pass on to his ex-wife. So, I think  on balance, the aim of the 
court order  wasnt simply to pay Mr Gs ex-wife 41.3%  of Plan 1. Its aim was to pay a total of 
£109,650 to Mr Gs ex-wife by using  his pension plans. And thats important because 
Scottish Widows  proposed redress doesnt take that into account. 
The consultants acting on behalf of the courts suggested that Mr G pay 41.3% of Plan 1 in 
order to settle the claim for £109,650. But in effect  what Mr G owed was a monetary figure  
which would have equalled approximately 28.45% of his total pension  plans. Mr G could, to 
an extent, choose  how to pay the claim. 
So, I dont think repaying Mr G 41.3% of the overstated pension  is the fair resolution to this 
complaint. Ive considered whether 28.45% of £13,445.69  is likely  to have been a more 
accurate calculation of Mr Gs losses, but I dont think it is. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN67506134I think its very likely  that a reduction in the value  of Mr Gs pension  assets  would have 
resulted in the courts asking him to pay a proportionally reduced sum to his ex-wife. 
Mr G says the aim of the financial remedy order was to achieve an equal division of assets 
between Mr G and his ex-wife. Hes provided his account on the matter but has been  unable 
to produce any further court documents to support  his account. 
Where the information  and evidence is incomplete or unclear, I base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  what I consider is most likely to have happened  in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances.
Im persuaded by the account Mr G has given,  that it was likely that the courts  aim was to 
divide the assets of Mr G and his ex-wife in a somewhat equal way. I think  thats common  
during a divorce settlement  and I dont find it unusual. 
Therefore, when Scottish Widows overstated  one of Mr Gs assets by £13,445.69, I think its 
fair to assume that the courts would  have awarded  his ex-wife 50% of that overstated asset. 
Mr G and his ex-wife  had many assets that would have been divided during the divorce. 
So, we cant  say exactly how Scottish  Widows error  would have affected the total pensions  
credit Mr G had to pay. But I think, on balance, it would have been affected and its likely that 
the affect was that Mr G overpaid his ex-wife  50% of £13,445.69  during the divorce  
proceedings. So, a fair remedy would be to reinstate that amount into Mr Gs pension.  
Mr G has also raised  concerns that Scottish Widows remedy doesnt take into account any 
growth in his pension plans  between  the valuations, which were dated July 2015 and the 
settlement date in September 2016. And I agree  that it doesnt. 
The remedy  order was to be paid as a percentage of Mr Gs pensions  and not a monetary 
figure. So, the final amount paid to Mr Gs ex-wife was possibly higher (or even lower) than 
the £109,650 Mr G owed his ex-wife  in pension credit,  depending  on the performance of the 
plans from the date of the pension valuations Scottish Widows provided  to the courts  to the 
date that the settlement was made from the pensions.  Therefore, any remedy should take 
this into account.  
Loss of opportunity
Mr G says that Scottish Widows error has also led to a loss of opportunity  as he says the 
valuations inflated  the annualised growth rate of his policy which  convinced  him to continue  
to remain in the with-profits fund rather than switching his pension to a better performing 
fund. 
Mr G has provided  evidence  that in 2011 he was advised to consider switching from his 
Scottish Widows  pension.  Mr G says he didnt act on this advice because of the bonuses  he 
was expecting to receive.
I appreciate that Scottish Widows error,  which occurred over several years,  has had an 
impact on Mr Gs expectations for what his pension  was likely to be worth when he came to 
retirement. 
Scottish Widows  error didnt prevent Mr G from switching  his pension to a new provider.  
But I can also see how it might have affected Mr Gs decisions in whether to keep  his 
pension where  it was or switch it to another fund or provider. Not least  because Mr G has 
shown the inflated valuations exaggerated  the annual growth he thought he was getting. 
Ref: DRN67506135Its not possible to say exactly what Mr G would have done but Im not persuaded that on 
balance, Mr G would have  switched  his pension had he been given accurate valuations.  
I say that because Mr G knew the bonuses on the policy werent  guaranteed  and could have 
been removed  at any point. He was also given professional advice in 2011 which 
recommended he transfer, even  with the inflated valuations.  But Mr G didnt act on that 
advice.
That being  said,  Mr G has clearly been caused  distress by not knowing what he would have 
done. Or, whether  he would have now been in a better position now but for Scottish Widows 
repeated errors in providing him with inflated valuations  of his policy.  So, I think its 
reasonable that they compensate him for the additional distress that caused him. 
The responses to my latest  provisional findings
Mr G responded to my provisional decision to say he had nothing  further  to add.
Scottish Widows  maintained that they should pay Mr G 41.3% of the overstated valuation, 
backdated to when the remedy  order was settled in 2016.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also re-considered  my provisional 
findings. 
Scottish Widows  still maintain their position  that to put Mr G into the position he would have 
been in they should  reinstate  £5,553.07  into Mr Gs account, backdated to the settlement in 
September 2016. However, Scottish Widows  havent provided any new evidence for me to 
consider. So, I have no reason to depart from the findings  Ive already made in my 
provisional decision where I said I think its likely Mr Gs losses are 50% of the overstated 
valuation. 
putting things right
This is a case where were unlikely to ever know what the true loss to Mr G was. There are 
many variables that have  affected his losses. So, Ive focussed on finding a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal  dispute 
resolution service. 
Scottish Widows  should aim to put Mr G into as close a position to the one hed have been in 
but for their errors. In order  to do so, they should  calculate the percentage growth  of Mr Gs 
pension Plan 3 between the valuation in June 2015  and the date of settlement  of the 
financial remedy order in September 2016. 
Scottish widows should then apply the growth  percentage  of Plan 3 to £6,722.85  (50% of 
£13,445.69) in order to calculate the notional value of Mr Gs overpayment to his ex-wife. I 
say that because its likely Mr G would  have still used 100% of Plan 2 but a smaller 
percentage of Plan 3 to settle the financial  remedy order.
The notional value  of the overpayment should  then be reinstated  into Mr Gs pension Plan 3.
Ref: DRN67506136The reinstatement should be backdated to take effect from the date the funds were settled in 
September 2016. It should take into account  any growth, loyalty bonuses  and fees as if the 
relevant units had never been sold and the equivalent funds had never left the plan. The 
settlement should  be paid up until the date that Scottish Widows are notified  of Mr Gs 
acceptance of my final decision.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be reinstated to Mr Gs pension  within  60 
days of the date Scottish Widows receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of notification of acceptance to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 60 days, that it takes Scottish  Widows to pay Mr G.
Scottish Widows  also offered Mr G £200  in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience 
they caused him. But I dont think that goes  far enough to compensate Mr G. I say that 
because its clear that Scottish Widows  actions  have meant were unable  to say by exactly 
how much  Mr G overpaid his ex-wife during their divorce proceedings. In their final response 
letters Scottish Widows also failed to address  Mr Gs concerns about his divorce  which was 
only investigated once  Mr G brought his complaint to our service.  Im in no doubt  Mr G has 
been caused a substantial  amount of upset by this. 
Mr G has also been caused distress by now feeling  he could have managed his pension in a 
different way had he been given accurate valuations over the years.  I appreciate its 
upsetting to him that he cant now go back and make different choices about his pensions.
Mr G has also spent considerable time investigating  and raising queries with 
Scottish Widows  over this issue which has spanned several years.  Thats caused him far 
more inconvenience  than it ought to have.
Finally, Mr G also has a loss of expectation of what he thought his pension  policy  was worth.  
Hes now of an age where he can draw on his pension so its likely to have a greater impact 
on him as he has less time to mitigate  his perceived  losses. 
Its important that when something  goes wrong  a business recognises the emotional impact 
their errors have made  and, in this case,  I think the emotional impact on Mr G has been 
substantial. So, Scottish  Widows should  pay Mr G £1,200 for the distress and inconvenience 
theyve caused,  this figure includes  the £200  Scottish Widows have already offered.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Scottish Widows Limited put things  
right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2021.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6750613