K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account which it called the Plus Account  (PA).
background
Mr P opened  a fee free bank account  with HSBC  in May 2006 and upgraded to the PA in 
August 2006 which incurred  a monthly fee of £12.95.
The PA provided  a range of benefits including worldwide  travel insurance and preferential 
overdraft rates.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ps complaint  and didnt think the PA was mis-sold. Mr P 
disagrees so the case has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ps complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Mr P was aware the PA was optional and whether he 
was given a clear choice in taking it out.
I think its more likely than not that he was. 
Mr P took out a fee free account with HSBC in May 2006. Mr P says that this account didnt 
provide a debit  card that could be used  in shops. And so he took out the PA in August  2006 
because HSBC told him it was the only way he would get such a debit  card.
Whilst I dont doubt  Mr Ps honest recollections,  I think after the years  that have elapsed,  Mr 
Ps memory  is mistaken.  I say this because  HSBC has provided evidence  that the account 
he took out in May 2006 initially  was a basic account without debit card facilities, but was 
upgraded almost  immediately in May 2006 to a free account that provided  full banking 
facilities including a debit  card that could  be used in the shops. 
So I dont  think I can reasonably say that its more likely than not that the debit card was the 
key driver for him in taking out the PA as I would  need  to in order  to uphold  his complaint on 
this point. And in August 2006  when Mr P took out the PA hed already had a fee free 
account with full banking facilities for several months
So I think Mr P was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the PA.
Ref: DRN68780822HSBC says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
PA to Mr P personally or advise him to take the account out. I dont know  what was said during 
the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as a record of a discussion about Mr Ps needs and 
circumstances or a suitability check to show  me clearly that it did make a personal 
recommendation to him. I accept its possible that in providing information to Mr P and 
explaining the benefits of the PA, HSBC may have  said or implied that it was a good idea to 
take it out. But this isnt the same as a personal recommendation. And based  on this services 
knowledge of HSBCs  sales practices  at the time,  I think  its more  likely than not that HSBC  
sold the PA to Mr P on an information only basis. 
So, HSBC  needed  to provide Mr P with sufficient  information about  the PA to make  an 
informed choice. And I think it did. I say this for the following reasons.
The PA provided  worldwide travel insurance,  preferential rates on overdrafts, savings, and 
loans; fee free cash withdrawals around the world, an annual  10% refund  of credit card 
interest paid, and discounts  on holidays  and other  types of insurance. 
I dont know what information Mr P was given,  but I think he understood and wanted many of 
the benefits of the PA. I say this because HSBC has provided  evidence that Mr P travelled 
abroad regularly  and used the interest  free cash withdrawals many  times. And he benefitted 
substantially from preferential rates on two loans,  his savings  and use of an overdraft.
Mr P couldve cancelled  the PA if he wasnt satisfied with it, but he didnt until many  years 
later. And from what Mr P has said about his personal circumstances at the time he took out 
the account, there was nothing that would stop him taking advantage of any of the PAs 
benefits.
So in my view, Mr P knew he had a choice about  the PA and decided  to take it. And the PA 
was useful for him. There  was no information  that Mr P wasnt given that would have put him 
off buying it. And it was for Mr P to make use of the PA as he wished.
So I dont  think he has lost out as result of anything HSBC may have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6878082