K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that the vehicle he acquired through  finance supplied  by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) was misrepresented  and/or not fit for 
purpose. He wants  to terminate the agreement  and receive compensation.
background
Mr B tells us in May 2016  he acquired the vehicle through a consumer  hire agreement.  He 
told us that due to a health condition it was essential  he had a four-wheel drive  vehicle. He 
says he decided upon the model - a Volkswagen  Passat  Alltrack  4motion - as it was 
described on Volkswagens  website as having "4MOTION permanent all-wheel drive". Mr B 
says that after he took the vehicle he began to have  doubts about it and contacted 
Volkswagen - through  Twitter - to check the car did have permanent all-wheel drive. And 
he says Volkswagen directed him to its website - and the same  information he had used 
when picking the vehicle originally. Mr B says he subsequently discovered the vehicle was 
not a permanent  all-wheel drive.
Mr B says that when  he complained, Volkswagen customer service told him it didnt think 
there was anything wrong with the description  of the vehicle. But several days later he says 
he noticed the information had disappeared  from the website.  As his hire period was coming  
to an end he felt he had to renew this as he didnt have time to investigate a replacement.
Mr B says he filed a complaint with VWFS in December 2018 and that it later accepted the 
vehicle did not have permanent  all-wheel  drive  - but an on demand system.
VWFS told us that in December 2017 Mr B had extended his contract  by 12 months so that it 
was now due to terminate in May 2019. It said that in December 2018  it had received  a 
complaint from Mr B about the possible mis-selling of the vehicle.  It said it had checked with 
Volkswagen UK to see if Mr B had raised concerns prior to this date and could find no record  
of any such contact.
VWFS confirmed  the model supplied to Mr B had been fitted with an all-wheel drive  system 
but said that this was passive (on demand) rather than a permanent system.  It said this 
meant the all-wheel drive  would activate as and when  required. And that there was no 
permanent all-wheel drive  for this particular model. It said it had been unable  to source its 
2016 website  brochure but it said the website did confirm:
Website - Prices and options may not reflect the very latest Volkswagen  data. Please 
contact a retailer to confirm.
Product brochures  - The specifications  listed are for information purposes only as our 
products are continuously updated and changes may be made to the specifications  at any 
time. If you require any specific feature please consult your authorised Volkswagen  retailer  
who is regularly updated with any changes in specification. Specifications  are subject to 
change without notice.
VWFS questioned why Mr B had not raised  his concerns earlier.  It said it did not accept hed 
had insufficient  time to source a new vehicle  or had no option but to extend the contract. It 
said the original  contract  had been for two years and Mr B had been  aware  of the end date. 
Ref: DRN65088552Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said he was unable 
to conclude there had been a misrepresentation. He thought that if Mr B had concerns about  
the four-wheel function these would have  been raised before the extension  was agreed.
VWFS hasnt  commented upon the adjudicators view. Mr B did not accept this outcome. He 
told the adjudicator  that the misrepresentation had occurred at the point of sale and he also 
feels the website  wasnt clear enough. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr B has experienced the worry and uncertainty when he found his vehicle was not 
of the description  hed thought. And that what he regarded as features essential to his safety 
and welfare were not present.
Where evidence is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - I have  to make my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is to say I decide what  is the most  likely explanation to 
account for whats happened. In trying  to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell 
us, and we look to documentary and other evidence to help us reach  a decision. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement. In other words, the consumer  would not have entered into the agreement but for 
the false statement. And when Mr B made  his original complaint he told us he had not 
sought information from the dealer - but had relied  on Volkswagens website. Ive seen the 
relevant page  from the link provided  by Mr B and I can see reference is made  to the Passat  
Alltrack having,  amongst  other features, 4MOTION permanent all-wheel drive.
In order to uphold  this complaint - which is against  VWFS  - Id have to think it had made a 
false representation which induced Mr B to enter the hire agreement.  But the website 
advertisement hes referred  to is that of Volkswagen UK - which  is the trading name of 
Volkswagen Group United  Kingdom  Limited. This is a separate  company to VWFS  and - as 
limited companies are considered to have individual  legal entities - even if the website 
advertisement amounted to a false statement  - and Im not finding it did - then VWFS was 
not responsible.
And whilst VWFS is not responsible for the content on the website of Volkswagen  UK the 
information Ive been given suggests that the statements about the vehicle  specification  
were subject to warnings that specifications could change at any time and that advice  should  
be sought from a dealer.
As Ive not been provided with specific information about what  took place at the dealers  - 
other than Mr B saying  he didnt  seek further clarification - I cant  say any misrepresentation 
took place at or before the point of supply.
Im aware that Mr Bs complaint covers two periods - the original two year term from May 
2016 and the further 12 month extension  agreed  in December 2017. 
Ref: DRN65088553By the time of the extension Mr B had begun  to have doubts - and Im aware  he said hed 
raised these earlier than December 2018. Although  VWFS said checks  had not found any 
record of previous contact  about this issue - other than the twitter feed - there is an email  
dated February 2017, from VW customer services which  acknowledges a query  from Mr B.
Unfortunately the email  is not specific about the subject matter of the enquiry. But even if this 
did refer to the issue of the all-wheel drive I dont  think it affects my final decision.  Ill explain 
why.
Its not in dispute  that Mr B extended  his contract  in December 2017 - at a time he already 
had doubts. Given  that the original two year contract  did not expire  until May 2018 I feel that 
was sufficient time for his enquiries to continue and to source a different vehicle if he 
remained unsatisfied.  Ive already explained that a misrepresentation requires not just a 
false statement - but one that induces a customer to act upon it. As Mr B thought  the 
description of the vehicle  might not be true - yet still extended the agreement - then this 
extension was not the result of any misrepresentation.
I must also briefly deal with the part of Mr Bs complaint that says the vehicle is not fit for 
purpose. It would be up to Mr B to inform the supplier of the vehicle if he required it for a 
particular purpose.  Ive not been  given any information to say Mr B informed VWFS that the 
vehicle had to meet specific requirements  to allay his health concerns. So I cant say the 
vehicle was not fit for purpose.   
In summary,  I do not think there has been any misrepresentation  regarding  the description  of 
the vehicle nor do I think it was not fit for purpose. I accept  that Mr B will be disappointed  by 
this but Im not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6508855