K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about a car he has been financing  through an agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). He says its not been  of satisfactory quality.
background 
Mr B took receipt of a used car in June 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. At the point of supply  the car was about two and a half years  old 
and had already  completed a little over 21,000  miles.
Mr B has had some problems with the car. A poorly  fitting windscreen  caused the rain 
sensor not to work and a plastic pillar  to fall off and the i-drive shut itself down constantly. 
The dealership replaced the i-drive  but they didnt  replace the windscreen.
Mr B complained to BMWFS who initially refused to replace the windscreen as they said 
there was no requirement for original equipment to be fitted to the car. 
Mr B therefore referred his complaint to this service. He told us about the windscreen and also 
explained that the i-drive was still cutting  out but intermittently. Our adjudicator explained the 
situation to BMWFS and they agreed to replace the windscreen with an original part to remedy  
the problems Mr B was experiencing. They offered to take a look at the car to see if anything 
was wrong with the i-drive. But Mr B wouldnt  allow  that as he was concerned the intermittent  
fault would  not show. So our adjudicator was persuaded that BMWFS had now taken sufficient 
action and he didnt  think it would be fair to ask them to do anything  else.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators view. He said hed been  experiencing problems  with 
the windscreen and BMWFS had ignored  his requests to reject  the car. He therefore asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr B so please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN61850992The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr B. The car here 
was around two and a half years old and had travelled  a little over 21,000  miles so Id expect 
limited wear and tear.
BMWFS have now agreed to replace the windscreen for Mr B and I dont  have any evidence 
to corroborate Mr Bs testimony that the i-drive is still faulty.
I think Mr B was provided with a car with a windscreen that was causing problems. I say that 
because I dont think its disputed that the windscreen supplied was not an original factory  
fitted windscreen. I think its likely the i-drive was faulty at the point of supply too. The 
business attempted a repair and I think the evidence currently suggests (although I know  
Mr B would disagree) that the i-drive  was repaired successfully. I can see they also replaced 
the windscreen pillar  but that didnt  resolve  the windscreen problem. 
So I think there were problems at the point of supply  and that the windscreen problem hasnt 
been resolved.
In those circumstances Ive considered whether it would now be fair for BMWFS to allow 
Mr B to reject the car. But I think rejection would be a disproportionate  remedy  here. The 
windscreen appears to have prevented  the automatic windscreen wipers  working  properly 
and has caused  a side pillar to come  off. Whilst I understand that these problems would 
have been frustrating and have had some impact on how much  enjoyment Mr B had from 
the car. I think its fair to say that, for the majority of time, they would have had minimal 
impact on him. The windscreen wiper  problem would only be evident when it was raining  and 
the pillar could only fall off once. 
So I think BMWFSs  offer to replace the windscreen  with a genuine part is a fair one. But I 
think its an offer that should have been  made  when Mr B asked for it. Ive seen  an email 
Mr B sent in September  2018. In that email he was very clear about  the impact  the non 
genuine part was having. He explained that the rain sensor wasnt able to work  properly and 
that the pillar had blown  off when the car was at speed. BMWFS  dont seem  to have 
considered the impact  the non genuine part was having and in the meantime Mr B has been  
left waiting for a resolution. So I think they should compensate Mr B for the distress  and 
inconvenience their lack of action has had on him. Im therefore asking them to pay him 
£200 in compensation; I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN61850993my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to:
replace the windscreen with a genuine part;
pay Mr B £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  their actions have 
caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6185099