K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc handled matters  when  she reported a 
credit card transaction she didnt recognise.  Her card was issued under the Halifax  brand, 
and Ill refer to the bank  as Halifax.
 
background
Mrs W identified  a payment which she didnt recognise on her Halifax  credit card statement. 
It was to a hotel chain  shed  used  previously, but her statement didnt indicate where exactly 
the payment had been taken. In any event, shed used a different card when shed stayed at 
the hotel. 
Mrs W called  Halifax to query the payment, but Halifax couldnt tell her which  particular hotel 
in the chain was involved. The bank said it would investigate what  had happened  on a best  
endeavours basis. 
Mrs W wasnt happy and called Halifax again  to log a complaint. In all she says she was on 
the telephone for around two-and-a half hours,  over several calls. In part, thats because she 
had to keep repeating herself and explaining  the problem again. 
Halifax refunded  the payment to Mrs Ws card account and cancelled the card and arranged  
for a new on to be issued,  but not until a few days after Mrs W had first raised her enquiry. 
Halifax acknowledged that it hadnt handled  the problem as well as it might have done,  and 
in particular had given conflicting  information  about how it would deal with things.  It offered 
to pay Mrs W £75 and refund her call costs, but she didnt think  that was sufficient  and asked 
this service to look at what Halifax had done.
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Ws complaint but considered that, overall,  shed 
been treated fairly. Mrs W didnt  accept the investigators assessment  and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case  as the final stage in our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I agree with 
the investigators conclusions, and for broadly the same reasons.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for the bank to suggest that Mrs W contact the hotel chain 
to clarify what has happened. She had stayed at one of their hotels  at about the same time 
as the disputed payment had been  made,  so it was reasonable to suggest that might  have 
resolved things for her. Nor do I think it was unreasonable that Halifax  asked Mrs W for quite 
a lot of detailed information; it might  have helped explain  what had happened. 
I do believe, however,  that it became apparent quite soon that Mrs W was saying she had no 
knowledge of the payment to the hotel chain  in the sense that she was clear she hadnt 
made it, not in the sense that might have overlooked it. So I agree  that Halifax should have 
put it in dispute sooner than it did and should have cancelled the card. Mrs W was right to 
say that, at that point, Halifax was under a duty to investigate. But, as the investigator noted, 
the card wasnt used during the short delay,  although  I can understand why Mrs W was 
frustrated that it hadnt been cancelled. 
Ref: DRN60475182Having listened  to recordings of conversations between Mrs W and Halifax,  I agree that the 
banks staff were always polite and tried to help Mrs W. And the refund, when it was made, 
was completed within  the timeframe they had indicated. 
For these reasons, I agree that the offer of £75 plus the cost of telephone calls is a fair way 
to resolve this complaint. I leave it to Mrs W to decide whether, on reflection, she is prepared 
to accept that offer. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not require  Bank  of Scotland plc to do any more to resolve 
Mrs Ws complaint.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6047518