K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired  with the assistance of finance  from BMW  Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) was not of satisfactory quality and he had to pay an extra 
£5000 to replace  the car.
background
Mr S entered in to an agreement with BMW Financial Services to finance the purchase of a 
new car on 9 October 2018 for £32,700.  Within days of getting the car Mr S says he raised  
concerns with the supplying dealership that the car was making a rattling noise. Mr S said 
that he was told not to worry. The issue persisted and Mr S said the car went  in on 3 
occasions to have the fault looked  at. Mr S says he was told there was a problem with the 
engine mount which  was repaired in January 2019. The fault persisted and on the second  
occasion Mr S says he was told there was a problem with the heatshield. Mr S was then told 
that this was a common fault with his type of car. Eventually Mr S arranged  for the car to be 
replaced with a used  car which cost him a further £5000.
BMWFS rejected Mr Ss complaint because he did not come to them at the time.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and thought  it should  be upheld.  She thought 
that Mr S had provided enough evidence that he asked the dealership  to look at the faults 
with the car and that there  were issues with the car very soon after the point of sale.  Our 
investigator thought  that there  had been  more than one opportunity  to repair  the fault and as 
this had not been successful Mr S was entitled  to reject the car. Our investigator  initially  
thought that BMW Finance should  put things right by re-working  the current  finance 
agreement to reflect the extra £5000 paid by Mr S. BMWFS explained  that it was unable to 
do this so our investigator thought that BMWFS  should pay Mr S the £5000 together with 
£350 for the inconvenience. She also thought  BMWFS should refund all except one of the 
payments made under the first agreement as Mr S didnt have much use of the car as it was 
in the garage  with the fault.
BMWFS  didnt agree with the investigators initial view and responded to say that there was 
no evidence that the fault persisted  after the repair and it wasnt  made aware there was a 
fault with the car until after Mr S had swapped  the car and so it had no opportunity  to assist. 
BMWFS said it was not possible  to rework  the finance agreement.  BMWFS did not respond  
to the investigators  second view and so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court  would approach matters but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The Consumer Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA)  provides 30 days to reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality.  After  30 days  
the business is allowed an opportunity to repair the car.
Following the failed repair Mr S wanted to reject the car pursuant to the CRA. He complained  
to the dealership on 14 April 2019 that despite the car being in the garage  for a month the 
fault could not be fixed.  Mr S wanted  the dealership to exchange the faulty car.
Ref: DRN67442322The dealership responded to Mr S by email on the 26 April 2019. Mr S was given three 
options,
1. Take up the offer that Carl has made  (subject to car availability) by close  of business
Sunday 28th April.  The deal offered has no further room for movement  other than the
makeup (smaller deposit/higher payment  etc).
2. Pursue your claim legally with your contractual partner, BMW Financial Services,  who
I know are aware and already have declined your rejection claim.
3. If you remain dissatisfied  with our decision you have the right to refer your complaint
to a dispute resolution provider, also known as ADR provider.
Mr S says that he had contacted BMWFS over the phone and was told that he would need to 
resolve matters with the dealership. In addition the final response letter from BMWFS  dated 
28 August 2019  reads as follows, 
Under the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015, if a fault is found outside  of the first days of 
ownership, we are allowed an opportunity to repair the vehicle before accepting rejection of 
the vehicle.
Ive reviewed your warranty history and can see that the fault you had with your car was a 
couple of months  after purchase.  As such, we wouldnt have offered rejection if you had 
come to us at the time.
No account is taken of the fact that there  had been  at least two failed repairs of the fault in 
relation to the engine mount  and the heatshield.  Mr S was told by the dealership that 
BMWFS were aware of the issue and have refused his right to reject  and this is supported  by 
the final response letter that states  this would have  been the outcome if he had come to 
them before he part exchanged the vehicle.
So I dont  think that BMWFS can say that it is unfair that they have had no opportunity to put 
matters right or that they were not aware of the problems. I have no reason  to doubt that Mr 
S was told to take the matter up with dealership  when he called BMWFS to explain the 
problems he was having. The email from the dealership is clear  that BMWFS were aware of 
the issue. Whilst I appreciate that the dealership is a separate  business Mr S would have no 
reason to think that the dealership had not made  BMWFS aware of the problem given what 
is stated in the email.   
Mr S complained on 7 May 2019 to BMWFS  the letter  was stamped as received on 10 May 
2019. Mr Ss letter makes clear the problems he has had with car, the failed repair and the 
part exchange which had by that stage  only recently been completed.  BMWFS  did not 
acknowledge that letter until 3 July 2019 or respond in full to Mr Ss complaint until 28 
August 2019 rejecting his claim as the fault was outside the 30 days. In the circumstances I 
dont agree that BMWFS  was not aware of matters until 2 July 2019.
It is clear to me that the fault persisted otherwise there would have been no reason  for Mr S 
to continue to complain or take up the deal to change the car at an extra  cost of £5000. I do 
not think it is fair or reasonable for BMWFS to now say that there is no evidence that the car 
continued to have a fault.
The responsibility is on BMWFS as the supplier of the car to show  that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when Mr S bought it. I would not expect a brand new car to develop a 
Ref: DRN67442323rattle with the engine which prevented Mr S driving  it for a period of time and that could  not 
be rectified. I dont think it is reasonable to expect Mr S to put up with a rattle in a brand new 
car. I consider that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
The dealership was given a chance to fix the problems with the car and it failed to do so. It 
presented Mr S with a list of options in April 2019  and the least worst option was for Mr S to 
part exchange the car. I dont think it is reasonable to expect him to do more than he did to 
make BMWFS aware. 
I think it would have  been reasonable for Mr S to reject the car but it seems that BMWFS 
would have refused  the request in any event. Mr S has part exchanged for a different car but 
I think BMWFS should  put matters right for Mr S and compensate  him for all the trouble and 
upset. 
Mr S entered into a new agreement at roughly the same  monthly  cost but was required to 
pay a further £5000.  The car he has now is used and not new so the APR on the new 
agreement is higher. The car Mr S has now cost £1300 more than the first new car. I think  it 
is fair for BMW to pay the £5000 as Mr S would not have changed  the car if the rattle had not 
been present.  Mr S is paying around  the same  monthly cost and although  his current car is 
used, it has a higher  value which  I think  cancels  out the higher APR and the loss of 
enjoyment.                                                                                                           
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited should  do the following:
Pay Mr S £5000 to reimburse him for the increased contribution to the exchanged 
car;
Refund all monthly payments under  the old agreement except one to reflect the 
period that Mr S was without a car and/or had impaired use and add 8% simple 
interest from the date paid to the date of settlement;
Remove the previous agreement from Mr Ss credit file; and
Pay Mr S £300 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6744232