K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way that esure  Insurance Limited  handled his home  insurance  
claim for theft following a burglary from his property.
background
Mr C notified esure  of a burglary at his property in April 2018.  esure  asked for a list of items 
stolen. Mr C explained that his son and his sons friend lived there but he mostly lived at 
another address. esure explained that the friend wasnt  covered under the terms of the 
policy, so it wasnt able to deal with any items the friend may have had stolen. esure also 
said that as Mr  C wasnt living there, any of the contents owned by him wouldnt be covered. 
esure subsequently  agreed to its loss adjuster coming out to visit to assess the claim for his 
sons losses.
The loss adjusters report noted no particular  concerns with the claim,  but recommended that 
a police report be obtained. However because  of confusion between the loss adjusters  and 
esure over payment, a cheque wasnt sent to the police until August 2018. For some reason 
that cheque wasnt  received and after chasing  the matter  up, a further  cheque  was sent in 
October 2018. The police then pointed  out that Mr C needed to sign a form. This was 
arranged, and the police report was received in January  2019.  
A settlement was agreed and paid to Mr C in March 2019. However  he queried why, having  
agreed a full settlement with the loss adjusters, £350 was taken off the settlement. esure 
explained that this was the excess which the loss adjuster should  have  told him about when 
making the settlement. Mr C had however been  advised of the excess earlier in the claim. 
He further complained that the settlement  was sent in three  separate  cheques rather  than by 
BACS payment  and to the risk address rather than his correspondence  address. esure  
explained that the three cheques represented different parts of the claim.
esure paid Mr C £150 for the delays in obtaining  the police report  and a further £100 for the 
confusion over the cheques and the excess,
On review by this service  our investigator/adjudicator said that esure should pay a further 
£100 compensation
Mr C accepted this. esure didnt  accept it and pointed out that Mr Cs actions at the start of 
the claim had caused delay.  This was specifically  concerning his own and his sons  friends  
occupation of the property. It pointed out that it didnt  cancel the policy for misrepresentation 
and had allowed  the claim to proceed. With regard  to the police report  different forms or 
processes are required depending on the police force  in that area and it couldnt be 
expected to know that. It didnt accept it was at fault over the confusion,  it had chased up the 
report. For its delays in respect  of that it had paid £150 plus the further £100. It believed it 
had paid a reasonable  amount  of compensation.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Ref: DRN69394112payment of excess
Mr C agreed a settlement  with esures  loss adjuster.  The full figure  was quoted  and no 
mention of the excess made at that time. He was however told about it at the start of the 
claim. I can understand that this would've been  annoying but I cant  say that esure wasnt 
entitled to deduct the excess when it paid the settlement.
delay
I dont think Mr C caused any major delay in the matter. Ive seen no evidence that he tried 
to mislead esure over his or his sons friends  occupation of the property. The claim was 
made on 4 April 2018. Instructions were sent to the loss adjusters on 10 May, who came  out 
to inspect on 17 May. Whilst complications  over occupation and entitlement under the policy  
might have caused a slight  delay before the loss adjusters visit, it was immediately noted at 
that visit that a police report would be needed.
Police reports can take up to eight  weeks  to be received. There was some confusion as the 
police wanted  to receive payment by BACS but esure was unwilling to do that. The loss 
adjusters in this case would have had a lot of experience of obtaining reports  and I cant see 
why they werent  instructed to go ahead  and do this. That would be the normal  procedure.  
Instead it took a further three  months  to actually  send  the cheque  and application.
Its unfortunate that the police didnt  receive the cheque and application  I imagine thats 
why they asked for BACS payment in the first place. This caused a further two months  
delay. Then  further  delay  was caused because another form had to be filled in. I dont accept 
that esure wouldnt have known  the process  for this, which is why its usually left to the loss 
adjusters to do.
As a result there was a further two months delay. During this time Mr C telephoned several 
times and was told esure was waiting for the report.  As the report  seems to have been 
received within  a month of the necessary forms and payment being sent its not 
unreasonable to expect  that the claim could have been settled six or seven months sooner 
than it was.
compensation
esure has paid £150  for its delays and a further  £100 for the confusion over the excess and 
cheque payments at the end of the claim.  I have no issue with the latter  figure. But for the 
delays in processing the claim I think compensation of £250 was appropriate  and I agree 
with the investigators/adjudicators conclusions in that respect. This means esure should 
pay a further £100.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to pay to Mr C a further £100 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Ref: DRN69394113Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6939411