K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that Barclays  Bank  Plc didn't complete a CHAPS transfer from his joint 
account with his estranged wife to his sole account.  His wife was able to remove  £60,000 
from the account before he was able to transfer the balance of the money to his sole 
account. Mr N wants  the bank to compensate him for this. 
background 
Mr N visited the local Barclays branch on 4 November 2017 after he found out that his 
solicitor had wrongly sent his share  of the money  from the sale of a property  to his joint 
account. The money was intended  for his sole account but the error  meant  that he had to 
visit the branch  to transfer £200,000 to his sole account. During  his visit to the branch, he 
says that he told the adviser what had happened  and that he wanted  the money to be 
transferred to his sole account.
The branch  adviser  told Mr N that the transfer  couldn't be completed as it was over the limit  
but a CHAPS transfer for the next working  day - i.e. Monday - could be arranged. Mr N says 
that the adviser assured  him that the money  will be 'earmarked for the transfer first thing 
Monday morning and that it couldn't be touched by anyone. So, he signed the forms to 
authorise the transfer and left the branch.
But, on Monday,  Mr N's estranged wife, the joint account holder,  visited  the branch and 
found the money in the joint account.  At around 2pm, she transferred out £25,000 to her 
account. Because of this, the CHAPS transfer didn't  complete  due to insufficient money in 
the account. She made two further  transfers of £25,000 on Tuesday and £10,000 on 
Wednesday before Mr N found  out that the CHAPS transfer hadn't completed. The bank 
didnt tell him that it hadnt completed. It appears Mr N discovered this for himself.
Mr N complained to the bank. The bank  found that they had acted in line with their terms and 
conditions in not processing the transfer. They  found that they couldnt  because there were 
insufficient funds  in the account. It was for the account holder to ensure  that there were 
sufficient funds to process a transfer. Also, as Mr Ns estranged wife was a joint account 
holder, she was entitled to withdraw  the money. They say that they were unaware  of any 
dispute between  Mr N and his estranged wife. 
Mr N says that he had made  it clear  to the bank that there was a dispute  between his 
estranged wife and him. He was unhappy  with the decision so came to us. 
The investigator thought that 
the bank had assured Mr N that the transfer  would take place on Monday.  
even though Mr Ns estranged wife was entitled to withdraw money as a joint account 
holder, the bank  shouldve done  more to try to process the transfer  on 4 November 
2017 when Mr N went into the bank. 
whilst  he appreciated  that the bank doesnt  tell people when a transfer hasnt gone 
through due to lack of funds, he felt the bank shouldve contacted Mr N because  of 
his particular circumstances. Especially as he couldve prevented the further 
withdrawals from his estranged wife later on in the week. 
Ref: DRN61596102Mr N would have extra legal costs  in trying to get the money  back  from his estranged 
wife during his divorce proceedings. But he couldnt decide how much these extra  
costs would be.
the bank should pay Mr N £500  for the distress and inconvenience  suffered. 
Mr N should deal with getting the money back through his divorce proceedings. 
Mr N didnt agree with this decision so it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to require  
Barclays to reimburse Mr N with the money his estranged wife withdrew from the account. 
But I do think Barclays couldve done  more when  Mr N asked for the transfer on a Saturday. 
I will explain  why.
Mr N says that he told the bank that there  was a dispute between him and his estranged  
wife. The bank say that they werent  aware of the dispute. On balance, I think  its most likely
Mr N did make his position clear to the bank and that he conveyed how urgent  it was to 
transfer the money to his sole account.
At this point then, I think that the bank  considered  two choices. The first was to transfer the 
money to Mr Ns sole account. As it was a Saturday,  the bank say that they didnt have a 
senior staff member available to authorise  the transfer. Because  of the large sum of money  
involved, I do think that the bank acted reasonably in requiring  a senior staff member to 
authorise the transfer. I have considered whether  a senior staff member shouldve been  
available on a Saturday. The bank say that there  is no obligation for there to be a senior staff 
member available  on Saturdays. I agree with the bank  on this point.
But, I do think that the bank couldve told Mr N which branch did have a senior member  of 
staff working that Saturday. Mr N could then have made the decision on whether to travel to 
that branch.
The banks second choice was a CHAPS  transfer.  I think that they did assure Mr N that the 
transfer would go through  on Monday. But, I do not think  they were  clear enough about what 
time it would  go through. Whether  knowing  this wouldve changed Mr Ns actions, I do not 
know. But I think Mr N was aware  that there was a possibility that his estranged wife might  
withdraw money from the joint account.
When the transfer didnt go through, I have  considered whether the bank shouldve 
contacted Mr N to prevent  further  withdrawals. I agree  with our investigator. I think that due 
to particular circumstances, the bank shouldve  done more  for Mr N. But, I also think that
Mr N couldve  checked on the CHAPS transfer  sooner than he did given this was very 
important to him.
Our investigator considered the bank paying for the extra  legal costs  that Mr N would have to 
pay to get the money back. But he couldnt decide  how much these extra legal costs would 
be. But its not for this service to decide  who the legal owner  of the funds is. Mr N may wish 
to take up the matter  with his estranged wife, or it should be settled via any subsequent 
Ref: DRN61596103divorce settlement  (if this hasnt already happened). But the circumstances  dont suggest  it 
would be right for me to order Barclays to refund the money.
In conclusion, I think that the bank was not as helpful as they shouldve  been. Because of 
this, Mr N has suffered distress and inconvenience. But I do think that Mr N couldve 
checked on the CHAPS  transfer especially as it was for such a large sum of money.  
Because of this and because I think that the divorce proceedings will resolve and 
compensate Mr N (if appropriate) for the legal costs he will incur in getting the money back,  I 
have reduced the compensation payable  from £500  to £300.
my final decision
My decision  is that I order Barclays Bank Plc to pay £300 compensation to Mr N for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their actions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6159610