K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains as a director of N, a company, that its commercial insurance  has been 
cancelled by Ageas Insurance  Limited and that it wont repay any premiums.
background
Mr M applied, through a broker, in June 2016  for a commercial  policy  to cover  various 
buildings owned  in the name of N, of which  he and Mr B were the directors. The policy 
renewed in June 2017, and In August N made  a claim for fire damage  to one of the 
properties. On investigating  the claim Ageas discovered that Mr B had had three  previous  
policies voided  for non-disclosure, had made  previous claims, had a conviction  and been  a 
director of a company  that had been liquidated. Mr M said he wasnt  aware of Mr Bs history 
but that any events  were  in the distant past. Ageas cancelled the policy  back to its start 
date in 2016 and declined  to deal with the claim.  It refused  to refund the premiums as it 
thought that the representations  made  when applying for the policy were reckless. It said it 
wouldnt have issued  a policy  had it known about Mr Bs history. 
Mr M conceded that by the letter of the law Ageas was entitled  to cancel the policy  but 
thought it was unfair that it wouldnt refund the premiums. He didnt agree that his 
representations were reckless. He pointed out that Ageas had paid a couple  of small claims 
without query but as this was a much  larger claim it was an obvious ploy not to pay the 
claim.
On referral to to this service our investigator  thought  that Ageas had acted fairly. She pointed 
out that any answers Mr M gave when applying for the policy were made on behalf  of both 
himself and Mr B. Mr M was unhappy  with this, pointing out that it was a small company and 
should have the premiums  returned  which, after deduction of the claims paid amounted to 
over £7,400.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was a commercial policy. Whilst it was a small company the policy itself covered a 
number of properties. The Insurance Act 2015 (the Act), which applies to commercial  
policies imposes  on the applicant  for a policy a duty of fair presentation whereby the 
applicant is required to disclose every material circumstance which the insured knows or 
ought to know . The duty also applies to renewals of the policy. So that there can be no 
doubt about what was a material  circumstance,  in this case the statement of fact issued with 
the policy said: 
The proposer, director or partner of the business or practice have never  been  declared
bankrupt/insolvent, or the subject of bankruptcy proceedings
The proposer, director or partner of the business or practice have never  had a proposal 
refused or declined  or ever had an insurance cancelled, renewal refused or had special 
terms imposed.
Ref: DRN66115852At the time of applying,  Mr B had had two policies  declined, in September 2011 and January 
2015. He had been convicted of an offence, and had been a director of a business which 
had gone into liquidation. A further  policy had been cancelled in November 2016 which 
should have been advised on renewal.  Mr B had made a claim in respect of that policy and 
the insurer on that occasion also declined  to refund premiums. So he would  have been  well 
aware of what an insurer  would do in the case of non-disclosure.
Mr M cant use the excuse that he didnt  know about Mr Bs circumstances. The Act sets out  
that a person applying is deemed to know, for the purpose of disclosing material  facts what 
any individual responsible for the insurance  knows. Put simply, it was Mr Ms duty to make 
sure, if he was unaware of Mr Bs history, that he asked  him. Mr B clearly  knew about  a 
number of issues that the insurer would  want to know, yet allowed Mr M to make  the 
application without  apparently telling  him.
If there is a failure to disclose material facts, then the insurer  is entitled to cancel the policy if 
it wouldnt have issued  a policy  to N had it known those facts. The policy  is underwritten  on 
behalf of Ageas by a sub underwriter who made the decision that the policy would be voided, 
having regard  to criteria  which  include  where previous insurers  have  declined.  And looking at 
the actual non-disclosures I consider that they were serious enough that any reasonable 
insurer could decline a policy.
I understand that Mr M accepts the cancellation  but thinks that Ageas should refund the 
premiums paid, less the cost of the claims paid.  Again under the Act if a representation is 
deliberate or reckless  then the insurer  may avoid the policy and need  not return  any of the 
premiums paid. Accepting that Mr M didnt  know  about Mr Bs history,  I think  it fair to say that 
his failure to ask him could fairly be described as reckless.  Ageas has pointed  out that it was 
involved in dealing with two previous claims so has decided not to return  any premium. I 
cant say it acted unfairly in that respect.
So overall I think Ageas acted fairly  in cancelling  the policy and in refusing to return 
premiums paid.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against Ageas Insurance  Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6611585