K822xcomplaint
Mr J has complained that Legal and General Insurance Limited (L&G) unfairly refused to pay 
his claim under his pet policy.
background
Mr Js policy  for his dog started  on 26 January 2018.  Mr J made a claim for vet fees 
concerning mast cell investigations  on a lump his dog developed on 31 December 2018.
L&G said that because  Mr Js dog had suffered a previous mast cell tumour in September 
2015, his claim concerned  a pre-existing condition, which was excluded under his policy.  
Therefore, L&G said it wouldnt pay his claim.
Mr J brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think  L&G had done anything  wrong.  
Mr J disagreed so his complaint was been  passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 March 2020 and I said the following:
First, I want to offer Mr J my heartfelt condolences given  his dog has since died. I 
also want to apologise  for the length  of time it has taken for his case to reach  me, so 
a decision could be made on his complaint. 
I understand what Mr Js vets have said about how the mast  cell tumour  his dog 
suffered in 2015 was simply unrelated to the mast  cell tumour  found in December 
2018. And I have seen  no other  evidence to show the mast cell tumour  in 2018 was 
caused or must have been caused by the mast  cell tumour in 2015.  
The relevant  exclusion term is detailed both in the policy summary and in the policy  
document. It says the following under the heading Exclusions in the policy:
2.7.3 The costs resulting from an accident,  illness or injury  that:
2.7.3.1 is the same or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an 
accident, injury or illness your pet had before the commencement 
date;
2.7.3.2 is caused by, relates to or results from an accident, injury,  
illness or clinical signs your pet had before  the commencement date;
In the policy  summary,  its set out a little differently under What  is not covered? 
Significant exclusions  please refer  to your policy  wording  under the 
SECTION number shown  for the full list of exclusions.
Costs from an accident, injury or illness that is the same as or has the 
same diagnosis  or clinical signs as an accident, injury or illness  you 
pet had before the commencement  date
Costs resulting from an accident, injury, or illness that is caused by, 
relates to or results from an accident,  injury,  illness or clinical  signs 
you pet had before  the commencement date. 
Quite correctly, the policy  summary states  we must  refer to the actual policy for the 
full wording and context. I consider the policy wording is missing  either  the word or 
Ref: DRN68071022between 2.7.3.1  and 2.7.3.2 or alternatively the word and. Clearly,  L&G believes its 
either one or the other or both, as the policy summary detailed,  so its assumed the 
word or is there but given how it numbered the issues in the policy  wording thats 
not at all clear in my view.  
Mr J and his vet have  thought the clause means both 2.7.3.1 and 2.7.3.2 have to be 
satisfied and given  how the policy numbers it, I also consider thats not an 
unreasonable interpretation.  All the rest of the exclusions under the section 2.7 in the 
policy stand on their own without any subsections except for this one and run from 
2.7.1 through  to 2.7.28. So that begs the question  why then insert  subsections,  
unless there  are two tenets to the relevant exclusion. And if there are two tenets to 
the exclusion, it consequently demands  the addition of either the word  or or and. 
Therefore on balance, I consider this is unclear and unambiguous because of the 
missing word or or and.  Consequently, I consider it ought to be construed in Mr Js 
favour since of course he wasnt  involved in writing this policy wording. That means  I 
consider the missing word to be and as Mr J believes and not or as L&G has 
assumed.
Mr J asked if his dog had been run over by a car in 2015 and then again in 2018, 
would the same exclusion apply. He believed  it would  be doubtful and I agree.
Im persuaded by Mr Js vet evidence, which clearly shows the mast cell tumour in 
2015 didnt cause and wasnt related to the mast  cell tumour in 2018. L&G havent 
produced any evidence to counter this either, which further persuades me that Mr Js 
vet is correct. So that means  Im of the opinion Mr Js claim hasnt met the terms of 
the exclusion under 2.7.3  as both sections arent satisfied. 
Therefore, I consider  L&G were wrong  to refuse  to pay his claim. Consequently I 
consider it should  now pay his claim  and with interest.
Very sadly, due to L&Gs delay and eventual refusal  to pay, Mr J couldnt  treat his 
dog optimally as his vet advised with chemotherapy. Instead, his dog was treated 
with palliative care and was then put to sleep. Theres no evidence before me to 
show that further treatment might  have made  a significant difference bearing in mind  
the dogs age. But I can understand the upset  and distress of Mr J at not having  the 
choice of treatment  for his dog. So I think L&G needs to compensate  Mr J for this 
distress and upset.
Its not my role or the role of this service  to fine or punish  businesses in these 
situations. And obviously, no amount  of compensation will bring back  Mr Js dog. But 
I consider L&G should  pay Mr J the sum of £300  compensation  for the distress  of not 
being able to treat his dog with drugs,  which could have potentially given him a better  
quality of life.
Mr J accepted my provisional  decision.  L&G reluctantly agreed there could be two meanings 
to the relevant clause. Therefore, it agreed  it should  be construed  in Mr Js favour.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN68071023On the basis that both parties effectively agreed with the contents of my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to change  it.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I intend to uphold  this complaint.
I now to require Legal and General Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr Js claim. Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mr J paid his vet 
costs to the date of its reimbursement. If income  tax is to be deducted from the 
interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr J for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr J the sum of £300  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6807102