K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the provider of the building  warranty  for his home, National 
House-Building Council (NHBC), in relation to claims he made regarding defects to his 
home.
background
Mr B bought a property  in 2012  and within  two years contacted the builder and then NHBC 
regarding issues hed found. NHBC began mediating between Mr B and the developer  and 
issued resolution  reports setting out what defects  it accepted were  present and needed  
rectifying. NHBC later took over completion  of the work it had said the developer  needed to 
complete. 
Mr B was ultimately unhappy  with how NHBC was handling things and complained. It issued 
its final response on that complaint on 9 January 2017. Mr B complained to this service  on 
5 July 2017 and in August  he followed this up with a letter setting out his concerns in detail.
Our investigator considered everything and said NHBC should ensure the outstanding work, 
as set out by Mr B, was completed by February  2018. It wasnt. Mr B asked us to look at 
matters further and NHBC issued further  final responses.  The last one of these was dated 19 
February 2019 and NHBC advised us that, around  that same time further,  final work was 
being completed at the property.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. As Mr B remained unhappy and 
as further final responses had been issued by NHBC,  it made sense to me to look at 
everything together under this one complaint. I did so and made some provisional findings. I 
felt that NHBC had failed  Mr B in some aspects  and that, as a result,  it should pay him a total 
of £1,250 compensation. I also said it should  insulate  a soil pipe which  traverses from the 
bathroom under the bedroom  floor. The parties have responded to my findings and Im now 
ready to issue my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive copied my provisional decision  below in italics, it now forms part of this final decision. 
Ive inserted, where appropriate, in normal font, the parties responses and my replies.
my provisional findings
period of consideration
We cant always look at every  aspect of every complaint that comes before us. Not every 
activity NHBC  carries out is regulated.  Anything it does in respect  of mediation isnt 
regulated, that includes  completing its resolution reports. This means  I cant consider any 
issue related to items that NHBC considered within the resolution report but in respect  of 
which no recommendation for remedial work  was recommended.
NHBCs role as mediator is seen to end when a deadline for remedial work to be completed 
by the developer has passed without it being  completed. Once the deadline  passes without 
Ref: DRN67330482recommended work being completed  NHBC is seen  to be carrying  out regulated activity. In 
this case two reports were issued, covering different work with respective deadlines given  of 
12 September 2014 and 29 August 2014. Which means activity, related to that 
recommended work, from those dates forward, can be considered by me. 
NHBC has said that anything prior to January 2017 cant  be considered because Mr B didnt 
complain within six months of the date of that letter which considered how it had handled 
things to that point.  However, as set out in my background above, Mr B did complain within  
six months of NHBCs January 2017  letter and so I can consider everything from the 
deadline dates  for completion of work onwards.
following the deadlines passing
Im satisfied that, initially, NHBC was given  to believe  that the developer still wanted to 
resolve the problems  at Mr Bs home and NHBC gave it leave to do so. I think  that was 
reasonable. But by February  2015 it was clear to NHBC this wasnt  going to progress and it 
decided to take over the claim.
NHBC then visited Mr Bs home to draw up a schedule of work and this was issued at the 
end of July 2015. Whilst I know  there were a lot of issues to consider I cant see any good 
reason why this took so long  conservatively  Id say there was at least two months of delay  
during this time. 
NHBCs appointed  contractor went to Mr Bs home  at the beginning of August but it was 
identified that the scope  didnt include a lot of the work that NHBC had recommended the 
developer complete. NHBC  said the work that had been scoped for could start and it would 
make additions for the missing items. But I accept that the fact of it having been missed  
was frustrating for Mr B. At the end of September, having issued the additions to the scope, 
NHBC asked its contractor for an update. None was received.
In January 2016 NHBC asked again for an update. No work had started   seemingly much 
was weather dependent. Regarding that which wasnt  the contractor confirmed materials had 
been agreed and were  on order. And Mr B had also requested the involvement of a 
particular member of staff whose calendar was busy and there were some holidays to 
account for too. A start date for the work was set for 23 May 2016. 
Work began but into June  further authorisation from NHBC was sought  for additional 
external work. NHCB agreed this. The contractor also requested  a further  meeting  as Mr B 
had asked for things  to be added or included  within  the scope for internal works. I appreciate 
that Mr B was becoming frustrated by this time but arranging variations to scopes  and 
meetings to discuss works were necessary at this point and these will naturally cause some 
delay. Ideally this would  have been avoided by them not being  missed from the scope in the 
first place  but this was a large  complex  claim and Im satisfied that NHBC did act 
appropriately once  it was aware of the error to put things right. And Im satisfied that 
because of the way NHBC handled  matters, the error didnt cause any delays. 
 
The revised schedule  following  some agreed  variations/additions was issued on 
23 August 2016.  Into September, a further variation request was made.  And in October 2016 
NHBC agreed to send the latest revised  scope to Mr B for him to check everything was 
included and where he felt something was missing NHBC would review that against the 
originally recommended work. Whilst I can understand why NHBC  would want Mr Bs views 
in this respect  I think it probably shouldnt have left him to carry out this complicated task. 
Ref: DRN67330483Really, given it had already missed  some things off, it should  have  carried  out a 
comprehensive review  itself first. Work  regarding the agreed  scope was still in progress at 
this time though  and Mr B was concerned  about the dust being created.
In November 2016 there was a further  meeting  at the property to try and resolve Mr Bs 
concerns regarding what work was to be done.  During the meeting an option of a cash 
settlement was put forward  and NHBCs contractor began work to calculate  what value that 
would be. But by mid-December the contractor reported that things were back  on track for it 
to complete the remaining  work.  In January 2017 NHBC asked the contractor for an update 
and issued a final response letter, regarding the delays  to date, and in which it offered Mr B 
£500 compensation. 
Mr B has said any time spent looking at the cash settlement was wasted,  as he told NHBC 
during the meeting he wasnt interested in this option. 
I can see Mr B took minutes  of the November meeting and these record  that he and Mrs B 
were unhappy  with the idea of a cash settlement. However, settling in cash is a tool often 
considered by insurers and I can see that following the meeting Mrs B wrote to NHBC setting 
out an option for settling in cash.  NHBC considered  this but said that it wasnt  agreeable to 
that, and the claim moved on. I also see that during this time a plumber  did attend the 
property. So Im not persuaded the time was entirely wasted but I do think that things could 
probably have  moved on a little quicker. 
Following this Mr B sought further clarification  from NHBC regarding the fire safety rating  of 
some doors at the property. It was also stated that compensation wasnt the issue,  what was 
required was for NHBC to confirm how their property would be made to comply with NHBCs 
standards. A further meeting took place at the end of January 2017  and further  clarification 
was sought from NHBC on various points.  Answers were  provided by mid-February 2017.
Works continued and, during March 2017 Mr B requested they be suspended for a short  
period. They  recommenced towards  the end of the month. In April the contractor sought 
further consent from NHBC for further work. No clear reason for this late variation was given 
but the work  seems to have been  agreed.
Mr B said that he doesnt recall asking for the works to halt in March  2017.
Reviewing the file I can see that when NHBC asked  the builder for an update in March, the 
builder reported  that Mr B had asked for work  to go on hold for a few weeks whilst a family 
member visited.  This may jog Mr Bs memory.  But, even if Mr B didnt ask for a hold, as the 
builder reported,  that wouldnt affect  the outcome. I say that because  even provisionally 
I explained that I wasnt minded to find that any delay caused or requested  by Mr B had 
negated the failings Id found NHBC had made during this claim. Im still of that view.   
The management  company  for the development pointed  out that some of the communal 
driveway bricks had been taken up. NHBC confirmed  these  would be reinstated.
Towards the end of May 2017 Mr B asked  for a copy of the most recent schedule of work  
and for clarification regarding investigations undertaken to determine  what  insulation  was in 
the floor void. He didnt  receive this for a few weeks.
Mr B concurred that there was a delay in NHBC responding  on these issues.
Ref: DRN67330484In July 2017  NHBC finally accepted that it hadnt, to that point, satisfactorily discharged  its 
liability in respect of the fire rating of doors at the property. In a 2014  resolution report it had 
recommended that the fire rating be established.  It had made some enquiries during the 
interim but hadnt  actually determined if the doors  were likely compliant. NHBC wrote  to Mr B 
noting its failure and confirming  that further enquiries would now be made. Despite the 
length of time this had gone  unresolved and the various enquiries  Mr B had made in this 
respect, NHBC didnt apologise  for its intransigence (to that point) and failure in this respect. 
Nor was any compensation offered.
By the end of July NHBC told Mr B by letter that it had made enquiries with the local 
authority, which  had signed the property off as compliant with building regulations. NHBC 
said as no issues were  noted with the doors  and a completion certificate for the property was 
issued, it deemed they were likely  compliant. In this letter NHBC also apologised for items 
from the resolution report having been missed from the schedules of work. It sent the latest 
schedule of works to Mr B.
In August  Mr B told NHBC that there was still an item missing  from the latest schedule. He 
was also unhappy  about the length of time it had taken for various answers, at various times 
to be provided. In November 2017  Mr B told us what work was outstanding  at his home. 
NHBC advised it hoped to have this completed  by the end of February 2018.
Mr B said he didnt  object at this time as he understood that NHBC was happy  to comply.
From what  Ive seen I think NHBC did intend to complete work as suggested. However,  that 
intention didnt come  to fruition  and the problems  Mr B had been experiencing with getting 
the claim resolved  continued. That is part of the reason why I was able to review the 
situation and offer a decision based  on everything that had gone on up to the point of 
NHBCs final response issued in February  2019.
On 11 April 2018 NHBC said the work was completed but Mr B disputed this. He wrote to 
NHBC on 19 April but it was July before an NHBC assessor came to consider the state of 
the work  in order to determine if, in its view,  anything  further  needed to be done. NHBC 
accepted there was still work outstanding and said it would make  a cash  settlement offer to 
resolve the claim. This was received  in September 2018 and rejected by Mr B. In 
December 2018  NHBC said it would complete the work and by late-January 2019  it had 
agreed to appoint new contractors.
Mr B said NHBCs  offer of cash, and its emails  around this time made him feel as though  he 
had no choice but to accept that form of settlement for his claim.
I appreciate that NHBC trying to resolve  the matter in this way, at that time, was frustrating  
for Mr B. But I note that NHBC did continue with the remedial work.
Around this time NHBC  wrote to Mr B. It accepted its communication in some  respects had 
been poor. It offered £250 compensation.  It then wrote a further letter  to Mr B addressing 
some specific questions  hed raised. It noted the final phase  of work was due to start soon. 
length of claim and claim handling
As at the point  of NHBCs last contact  with Mr B (referred  to in my paragraph above), final 
work was still to be completed, I wont include anything regarding that final phase of work 
here. 
Ref: DRN67330485But I do think its relevant  and appropriate  for me to comment on the complaint to that stage. 
And, whilst I think  this was a difficult claim, it isnt, in my view, that unusual in terms of the 
nature of claims that NHBC usually sees.  Quite  often they involve multiple numbers of 
defects that have been recommended  for repair. I can accept  that some initial points might 
be missed from the schedule but time and again during this claim points were  found to have 
been missed and had to be added.  
I also appreciate that some work  was weather  dependent  and that Mr B wanted certain 
people to be involved and/or occasionally asked  for work to halt for a time. But Im not 
convinced any of that really accounts  for all of the delays Ive seen during my assessment of 
this complaint. 
Ive also seen at times  that NHBC has completely failed  to respond to Mr Bs reasonably 
raised concerns.  Eventually responses have been  given but there have been delays  
ranging from a few weeks to several  months. So I can fully understand why Mr Bs patience 
has worn thin.
I accept that at every point the contractor asked  for variations NHBC acted on those 
requests and often   whether it communicated  with Mr B about it or not  agreed  to the 
requested changes without much  delay. But as time went  on I could see the contractor 
becoming more frustrated with the situation he was being left in whilst trying to complete the 
work hed been  employed to do. I dont doubt this affected the relationship with Mr B.
I can also see he was getting  pressure from the neighbours and the management company 
for the complex  to have this work  completed, I know the contractors were keeping  things tidy 
but on-going work still impacts the surrounding  community and I accept Mr B was caused 
distress as a result.
I also think Mr Bs frustration increased as time went on and work  remained outstanding, 
particularly into 2018 when issues with what were meant to have been  the final works were 
found. 
I further note that into 2019 NHBC accepted it hadnt fulfilled one of the recommendations 
within the 2014 resolution report  regarding  the utility room tap. I understand NHBC are 
reviewing this but I accept  this long outstanding  point caused additional frustration for Mr B.
During the course of the complaint I can see that NHBC has offered Mr B a total of £750 
compensation. Looking at everything Im not persuaded that is fair and reasonable. I think  a 
total of £1,250 is fairly and reasonably due.
NHBC said that, in addition to the compensation offers Id detailed, it had offered £250  in 
January 2018.  Making the total it had offered £1,000, not £750. It didnt say whether any of 
these offers  had been paid. Mr B confirmed  hed had the offer of £250 in January 2018.  He 
didnt say whether  hed received any payment. He asked whether my figure was in addition 
to the £800 mentioned by our investigator when agreement had been reached  to complete 
work by February 2018. 
Ref: DRN67330486My decision  overrides the view issued by the investigator. I said provisionally that I felt a total 
of £1,250 was fair and reasonable. Having reconsidered the matter, and taken into account  
Mr Bs responses to my provisional findings,  I remain of that view.  If NHBC has paid any 
amount of compensation to Mr B already (I accept that a total of £1,000  has been offered) 
then it will now only have to pay any sum remaining from that total figure  Ive awarded.
items Mr B wants action  on and which NHBC has refused 
Fire rating  The resolution report said the developer had to confirm  that the doors had the 
required fire rating. This was what NHBC took over liability for when it took control of the 
claim. NHBC  made  enquiries with building control.  And Mr B provided a check NHBC had 
carried out at the time the warranty was issued. Having seen both Im satisfied  that NHBC 
has satisfied the recommendation in the resolution  report; its reasonable in my view for 
NHBC to have concluded based  on the evidence it holds that the doors have the correct 
rating. 
Insulation under bedroom floor  NHBC said whilst it is now clear that insulation in this area 
is too thin, it wont rectify it because the initial complaint as per its resolution report  only 
related to noise  from the pipe in the bathroom.  Mr B said the same  pipe runs under the 
bedroom but NHBC wouldnt agree to change the bedroom insulation. The resolution report 
actually says:
The branch pipe serving the ground floor bathroom  is very noisy within the adjacent 
bedroom when  flushed.
It was recommended that the developer carried out work  to insulate the pipe. So I dont think  
NHBC can fairly dismiss Mr Bs concerns about the lack of insulation  as the pipe continues 
into the bedroom. I think it needs  to rectify  this.
Rusty bolts  These are in the vicinity of the ridge  beam. NHBC said it would  replace  the 
bolts that it may have  installed  during a previous repair  under  the policy to the ridge beam.  
But not any other bolts; they hadnt been  raised as defective within  the defects period and 
werent causing damage as would be required outside of that time.  I havent seen reference 
to the bolts in the early years of the claim and NHBC is correct  in stating that after the 
defects period the warranty only responds when defects cause physical damage.
Rusting window furniture   NHBC said this wasnt identified as an issue  in the defect period. 
Ive seen nothing  that makes  me think it was wrong  in this respect. And I note there is no 
suggestion damage is being  caused,  such that might allow a claim outside of the defects 
period to succeed.
These points, excluding the fire rating but in addition to two others, were the subject of 
NHBCs February 2019 final response. In response  to my provisional findings, Mr B shared 
with me his response  to that letter.  Whilst I understand from that he still had concerns, my 
comments above set out my views  on these  points, and Mr Bs response doesnt change  
them. Mr B, in responding to my provisional findings,  said he understood that I didnt address 
one of the issues because it related to a problem which wasnt  found to be a defect within 
the original recommendation report.  Regarding the other issue I didnt specifically address  
NHBC accepted Mr B might  have a valid concern in that respect  (about insulation  between 
the kitchen and the bedroom) and agreed  to review  that. As I said provisionally Im not going  
to go beyond NHBCs February response to consider what  happened after that time. That is 
still my position. 
Ref: DRN67330487On that note NHBC has said its completed work  (around the time my provisional  decision 
was issued) to install additional insulation  in the bedroom floor to resolve the bathroom soil 
pipe issue. Im not sure if this has been  done  or not  the email NHBC sent to evidence  this 
said work was planned,  it doesnt show it was carried out. Im still satisfied that part of the 
remedy for this complaint  is for NHBC to do that work, so Im going  to leave my direction in 
this respect in place.  If work has been  done  it wont have to be done again. 
interpretation of the policy
Mr B has said that as the resolution report requires the developer, and latterly NHBC, to 
ensure the property complies with its technical requirements  that means that any defect 
found during the remedial work must  also be rectified. Because  NHBC took over liability  for 
completing the resolution report, Mr Bs concern  in this respect  related to NHBCs regulated  
activity, which means  I can consider this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate Mr Bs view on this, I dont agree with it. The resolution 
report sets out the issues that require rectification and in rectifying them  the NHBC is 
ensuring that the specific element of the property in question is compliant. Im not minded to 
think that NHBC in taking on liability for completing the recommendations set out in its 
resolution report, has become liable for rectifying  any defect found within the property during 
that remedial work
Mr B said that NHBC told him it would pick up any other defects found during the work. He 
said this was proven  to him when NHBC agreed to put extra insulation into the stud wall 
between the bathroom and the bedroom  when  it removed defective plasterboard (in the 
bathroom). The insulation wasnt an initial defect recommended for repair,  but NHBC agreed  
to resolve it anyway. It, therefore, makes no sense, Mr B says, for NHBC to refuse  to resolve  
defects on the windows that it removed  and then re-fitted, just because these defects werent  
noted during the resolution  process.
The policy doesnt  require  NHBC to fix any defect found during its repair work. NHBC may 
choose to repair some additional  things,  but it isnt bound to. I can see that regarding the 
stud wall NHBC  took the view that insulation was needed in this area as part of it carrying  
out the recommended repair in respect  of the soil pipe. So it wasnt fixing  an additional 
defect or an extra defective  part, it was all part of complying with the original 
recommendation set out in its resolution  report.  I remain of the view that NHBC isnt bound  
to fix everything  it only has to do anything necessary to ensure the recommendations  set 
out in the resolution reports are complied with. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require National  House-Building Council to:
If it hasnt  already been done,  insulate  the soil pipe from the bathroom  as it runs into and 
through the adjacent bedroom so that it complies  with its technical requirements.
Pay Mr B a total of £1,250 compensation, but if any amount has already been  paid to 
and received by him (not just offered) that can be deducted from this overall sum.
Fiona Robinson
Ref: DRN67330488ombudsman
Ref: DRN6733048