K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complained that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused to pay a 
claim on his commercial vehicle insurance  policy, after his van was stolen. 
background
Mr F claimed  on his policy after his van was stolen. He said a thief had stolen his keys that 
were in the pocket  of his jacket, that hed hung  up on a post. 
Tradewise turned down his claim.  It said hed left his jacket  and van unsupervised in a 
publicly accessible location. And he wasnt close enough to the van to notice it being stolen. 
It didnt think Mr F had taken reasonable steps  to safeguard the van from being  stolen. 
Mr F complained to Tradewise as he thought  it should have paid his claim. Tradewise 
arranged for an investigator  to interview  Mr F to find out more  details of how the theft 
occurred. But after doing so remained satisfied it had turned  down  his claim correctly. Mr F 
brought his complaint to us.
Tradewise accepted Mr F was likely to have not recognised the risk. But said the property 
the van was stolen from wasnt secure  and both the van and the jacket could be viewed by 
the public. It said Mr F had been  away from his jacket for long enough for someone to steal 
the keys without him seeing them. It also said residents might also be used to seeing him 
leaving his belongings in places while he works.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 February  2020  where  I explained 
what Tradewise needed to do to put things right. In that decision I said:
The terms and conditions  of Mr Fs policy say that he needs to take reasonable steps to
safeguard his vehicle from loss.
When considering  whether  its fair and reasonable for an insurer  to rely on the term that a
policyholder didnt take reasonable steps or reasonable care, we consider whether they (in
this case Mr F) were reckless. By this I mean that they recognised there was a risk and did
nothing to avert it. 
Tradewises investigators  report says Mr F said he locked his van and put the keys in his
jacket. Mr F said he was mowing  the lawns for around 30 minutes before getting  too warm
and so removing  his jacket.  He said he hung his jacket on a post and left it with his
lawnmower about 25 yards away from his van. He said his jacket  was in sight while he
worked and he didnt leave the compound. Mr F said he went to empty  a bin and noticed a
male pass  him. He said shortly afterwards  he noticed his van was missing.  Tradewise  said
Mr Fs jacket  was out of his sight for long enough for someone  to take the keys without him
noticing.
Mr F said he was vigilant  but Tradewise has accepted that he probably didnt recognise the
risk of the theft.  I think  its unlikely Mr F would have left his keys where they were if he
thought there was a risk to his van being  stolen, given that he needed it for work.  So, Mr F
might have been careless in leaving his jacket where it was, but he wasnt reckless.  And I
dont think its fair and reasonable for Tradewise to rely on this term to turn down his claim.
To put things right I intend  to require Tradewise to pay Mr Fs claim in line with the remaining
Ref: DRN60995632terms and conditions of the policy. It should add interest to the settlement at a rate of 8%
simple per year from the date of the theft to the date it makes  payment.
Mr Fs told us about the inconvenience of not having his van for work. He said he had to hire
a van from someone who works  with him but only had this for three or four days a week.  He
said this van was smaller than his which meant  he couldnt carry as many tools and had to
make more journeys  to get rid of waste. He was able to buy another  smaller van on
1 August 2019  but again said this was smaller than he needed  for work.  Im persuaded by
what Mr Fs said, in that he had to make  other  arrangements to keep working and this
caused him a financial  loss as well as unnecessary  distress and inconvenience. I think the
fair and reasonable outcome to compensate him for this, is for Tradewise to pay Mr F £10 a
day loss of use from the date his van was stolen to 31 July 2019.
Mr F accepted my decision but Tradewise disagreed. It maintained that Mr F had been 
reckless in leaving his keys in a public area and not on his person. It said the fact hed 
hidden his key shows that he was risk aware and still chose to leave them.  Tradewise also 
disagreed with paying loss of use as it said the policy doesnt cover this. It also said it 
shouldnt have to pay this from the date of the theft because it had to appoint an investigator 
and our service had also spent time looking into things. 
I contacted both Mr F and Tradewise  to say that Id considered Tradewises point and 
accepted that in this case it wasnt fair to award  loss of use from the date of the theft. 
However, I thought  Tradewise had taken longer than it should have done to investigate and 
turn down the claim. I said six weeks was a reasonable amount of time for it to have made a 
decision in this particular  case. So, I said Tradewise should pay Mr F loss of use from six 
weeks after the claim until 31 July 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The additional comments Tradewise  made havent  persuaded  me Mr F was reckless. While 
he might  have recognised  a risk in leaving his keys on show,  hed hidden them in his jacket. 
And as I said in my provisional decision,  while he might have been careless, I dont think  that 
was reckless, even if the jacket was out of sight for a few moments.  I say that because I 
dont think Mr F thought about  the risk, but didnt care whether his keys were stolen. So, I 
remain satisfied that it isnt fair and reasonable for Tradewise  to have turned down Mr Fs 
claim.
Im aware the policy doesnt cover loss of use, but I think Tradewise unfairly turning down   
Mr Fs claim caused  him a loss he shouldnt have had. And as he was without the use of a 
van he should have  had I think £10 a day is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate 
him for the other arrangements  he had to make. I think Tradewise took longer than it should 
have done to turn down Mr Fs claim. So, I dont think its fair that it only compensates him 
from the date it turned  down his claim. I think Tradewise  should have been able to make  a 
decision on Mr Fs claim within six weeks. So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for 
Tradewise to pay Mr F £10 a day loss of use from six weeks  after the theft to 31 July 2019.
Tradewise also said its not responsible  for any time that occurred between Mr F coming  to 
our service  and us requesting information from it. However,  I still think  Tradewise should pay 
Ref: DRN60995633loss of use during  this time, as Mr F wouldnt have had to complain to us if Tradewise hadnt  
unfairly turned down  his claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Tradewise Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Pay Mr Fs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
Add interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the theft to the date it makes
            payment1;
Pay Mr F £10 a day loss of use from six weeks after the date of the theft to 31 July 
2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
1 If Tradewise Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr F a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6099563