K820x#14complaint
Mr B acquired a used  car in August 2017, by means of a 49 months hire purchase 
agreement with FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading as MotoNovo Finance). He brought his 
agreement to an early end during August 2018, by Voluntary Termination (VT).  
Mr B complains that MotoNovo sold his car for less than its value, thereby increasing the 
final payment required  from him, when  his agreement  ended. He wants  this payment 
reduced to the level it would  have been, if his car had been  sold for the correct value.
background
Mr B told us:
MotoNovo mis-advised him about  how the VT process worked, in a phone 
conversation during  August 2018, before he decided to end his agreement by VT
It told him that his car would be sold at auction  and the sale value could  not be 
guaranteed  but his car would be given a valuation before collection, and he could 
decide at this point whether or not to proceed  with VT
It also told him that his car would not be sold for less than this valuation, and he 
would have 30 days to make his final payment to MotoNovo
His own research indicated that his car was worth about £5,500
The collection process was not as advised, but he was committed to returning his 
car, and he trusted MotoNovo to sell the car for a fair value
Contrary to the earlier  advice from MotoNovo, the sale proceeds  (after action site 
fees) were a little under £3,700, and he was given only 14 days  to make his final 
payment
Mr B complained to MotoNovo. Its representative  replied saying:
She had listened  to its recording  of the phone conversation  to which  Mr B referred
During this phone conversation, Mr B was not advised that he would  be provided with 
a valuation before the car was sold  and, as such, Mr B  gave his consent for the car 
to be collected  without this information
During this conversation, Mr B did express  concern that his car would be sold for less 
than its value  but he still went ahead with the VT
Mr B was advised about  options other that VT  but Mr B replied that he was not in a 
position to take these  options 
Mr Bs car was inspected  before collection, and found to have some minor damages
MotoNovo did not charge Mr B for these damages  but the damages  did mean that 
his cars  subsequent valuation was lower than if it had been in pristine condition
An industry standard tool was used to determine the cars valuation
The car was valued  at just under £5,300,  and was sold for £5,700
Ref: DRN60908242MotoNovos representative added: 
During the phone  conversation,  Mr B was advised that he would have 30 days to 
make his final payment
While  the letter Mr B received from MotoNovo shortly after the sale stated  that he 
had only 14 days  although, in order to show forbearance, MotoNovo actually 
allowed 30 days 
The representative appreciated  that the letter would have caused confusion, but Mr B 
was not mis-advised during the phone conversation
The representative concluded that MotoNovo was unable to uphold  Mr Bs complaint, which 
he then referred to us. MotoNovo provided documentary  evidence to us, including detailed  
notes of its contacts with Mr B. 
Mr B urged us to obtain  as well a recording of his August 2018 phone conversation with 
MotoNovo. We asked MotoNovo to provide this piece of evidence,  but it did not do so.
Our adjudicator did not think the complaint should  be upheld.  Our adjudicator  was unable to 
find evidence, in the information  provided  to us by MotoNovo, which  supported Mr Bs 
statements that:
It told him his car would be given a valuation before  collection,  and he could decide 
at this point whether  or not to proceed with VT
It guaranteed  his car would not be sold for less than this valuation
Our adjudicator acknowledged Mr Bs view that the phone conversation recording would  
confirm the guarantee he said was given to him by MotoNovo.  But our adjudicator noted that 
Mr Bs car was sold for more than its valuation   and our adjudicator felt unable  to conclude 
that MotoNovo  had sold Mr Bs car for less than its value.  
In these circumstances, our adjudicator did not think that listening to the phone conversation 
recording would change  his conclusion. Mr B disagreed, and so this complaint was referred  
for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Mr B is unhappy that we have not obtained from MotoNovo a recording of his August 2018  
phone conversation with it. Such a recording clearly existed, and was referred to in the 
response by MotoNovos representative to Mr Bs complaint. 
We asked MotoNovo to provide this piece  of evidence, and chased  up our request  more 
than once. But we do not have it and, in the circumstances, I need to make  my decision (on 
the balance of probabilities) without it. 
I think that MotoNovo  made a mistake, when it wrote  to Mr B shortly  after the sale of his car, 
saying that he needed to make his final payment within 14 (rather than 30) days. But it 
appears that MotoNovo actually allowed 30 days for this payment to be made, and so I do 
not feel this mistake requires financial compensation.
Ref: DRN60908243Turning to whether  Mr Bs car was sold for less than its value, there  are several  points to 
consider:
Mr B told us (in his complaint form)  that he had his car valued online at about £5,500,  
on the basis of it being  in reasonable condition
We dont have  details  of how the figure of £5,500 was calculated,  but it is not very 
different from the valuation obtained by MotoNovo  (taking  into account the damages 
identified when  the car was inspected)
The car ended up being sold for a figure more than (but not so different from)  £5,500
Transaction costs  (including auction site fees) were incurred during the VT process, 
and so the amount credited to Mr Bs hire purchase agreement account  was less 
than the sale figure
MotoNovos evidence is detailed, and indicates that Mr B was told that he could wait 
to decide whether  or not to opt for VT, until after his car had been  inspected before 
collection
But this evidence does not indicate either  that Mr B was told that his car would 
receive its valuation  before collection,  or that MotoNovo  guaranteed  his car would not 
be sold for less than this valuation
Apart from the letter about  his final payment, I have seen no evidence to suggest  that 
MotoNovo carried out the VT process incorrectly
I sympathise with Mr B. It appears that his personal circumstances meant  the only option 
available to him was to bring his hire purchase  agreement to an early end by VT. 
Mr B may well have hoped that the financial outcome of VT would be more favourable to 
him. But, on balance,  I am unable  to find that MotoNovos actions left him with a higher 
outstanding liability  than should have  been the case.  And so I have  come  to the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator, for similar  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6090824