K822xcomplaint
Mr L says the offer of settlement in respect of his complaint against MBNA Limited (MBNA) 
isnt right.  He thinks it should be a higher figure.
background 
Theres been a long-standing disagreement between Mr L and MBNA  over some money that 
was taken from his credit  card account  each month by a company that Ill call W, although it 
trades by a different name, which Ill call C.
C appears to have claimed £15 from Mr Ls MBNA  account through a mechanism called a 
continuous payment  authority (CPA) each month from May 2017 to February 2018. Mr L is 
adamant he didnt  sign up to the services provided  by C. While C agreed to refund Mr L the 
last three  of the monthly  payments, he says £105 remained outstanding.
Mr L asked MBNA to refund the money thatd been taken from his account.  In summary, the 
matter couldnt  be resolved  between the two parties.  So, Mr L got in touch with us. One of 
our adjudicators looked into things for him.
After Mr L had contacted  us, MBNA  agreed  to refund Mr L £105 as a gesture of goodwill.  
And it agreed to add 8% simple interest  to this amount  from the dates the monthly  payments 
were taken to the date of settlement. Mr L accepted hed get £105 from MBNA.
But Mr L disagreed  with the interest element. He said it should be calculated on the interest 
rate hed been charged on his credit  card account,  which was much higher than 8%. And he 
wanted assurances MBNA wouldnt deal with W (however  it may trade  as).
MBNA responded  to say that wouldnt be fair. Interest had only been charged to Mr Ls 
account for a relatively small time  and then only because his normal monthly  payment had 
been returned unpaid. It said MBNA didnt have any relationship with W to end  it had 
simply processed payments (in the name  of C) that it believed to be authorised by Mr L.
In summary,  MBNA said the vast majority of the interest Mr L had been charged  wasnt  
down to payments  taken  by C. But it was prepared to add 29p to the settlement offer (based 
on its calculation of the interest  charged on the one relevant monthly payment of £15 taken 
by C during the time in question).
Mr L still wasnt happy with MBNAs  response. So his complaints been passed to me to 
review and issue a final decision  on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr L feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from what  hes 
said to MBNA and to our adjudicator.  And thats  not surprising. Mr Ls adamant  that he didnt 
sign up to any service  from W (or C, as it appears  to trade  under). He feels  MBNA shouldnt  
allow payments  to be taken from their customers accounts in circumstances such  as those  
hes experienced.
Ref: DRN64892162MBNA has agreed to refund the £105  Mr L says was taken from his account  without  his 
agreement. So theres no loss in that regard for me to assess. The only matter I have to 
deal with is the interest that should  be applied to that settlement.
I should say here that the level of involvement Mr L may be seeking or expecting from our 
service is perhaps more than we provide.  Were an informal  dispute resolution service  as 
an alternative to the courts.  So, for example, we cant normally  agree to things like a specific  
form of wording for the settlement  that Mr L might  want to see used. Nor can we tell a 
business what other organisations it should  work  with  or not (as Mr L says here).
Our normal approach  is ask a business  to pay interest on any settlement using what is (as 
Mr L knows) the statutory rate of 8% simple   and, where relevant, from which the standard 
rate of income  tax (currently 20%) should be deducted. Wed  only use a different rate if it 
was set down  in contractual terms and we were clear the business (in this case  MBNA) had 
made an error. And that different rate would only apply to the relevant transactions.
MBNAs records dont show that it charged Mr L any interest  on his account as a result of the 
£15 monthly payment taken by C until the last one on 2 February 2018. Up to that point, hed 
always paid his bill in full. There was a problem with Mr Ls payment in February  2018.  So 
MBNA  rightly  charged Mr L interest at the rate applicable to his account.
MBNA has calculated the interest that Mr L was charged on the £15 transaction  in February 
2018 was 29p. That seems about  right to me. So MBNA has done the right thing in adding  
this to the settlement offer. But it doesnt have to offer Mr L anything else.
All I can require MBNA to pay him is:
the £105 he says hes owed by way of refund;
interest at 8% simple  on the payments since the various dates they were taken; and
the 29p MBNA has calculated as the interest charged to his account on the £15 payment 
taken on 2 February 2018. 
I realise Mr L will be disappointed with this. Given how strongly he feels  about whats  
happened, Mr L may want to take the matter further through other  routes. But my decision 
brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve his dispute with MBNA informally,  can do for 
him. Im sorry our service  cant help Mr L any more on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that MBNA  Limited  should  pay Mr L:
£105 in respect of the payments taken from his account;
interest at 8% simple  on those payments since the various dates  they were  taken;  and
the 29p it has calculated as the interest charged to his account on the £15 payment taken 
on 2 February 2018. 
Ref: DRN64892163Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6489216