K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). She paid a monthly fee for this account which 
came with a number of benefits.
background
Mrs M says that Halifax told her she had to get an URCA so that she could get an overdraft 
on her account. Mrs M says Halifax didnt present her with any alternative accounts other 
than the URCA.
Mrs M has said that she wasnt made  aware  of the benefits or that there was a monthly cost 
to the account  and says that she has never registered a mobile  phone, although says that 
she ended  up relying on the breakdown cover.
Mrs M also says that she tried to downgrade and close her account but was unable  to as her 
account was still overdrawn.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Ms complaint.  He did not think  that the URCA 
was mis-sold. Mrs M did not agree  with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at 
the complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help decide  what to do about Mrs Ms complaint. 
I know this is going  to come as a disappointment  to Mrs M, but after giving this case  a lot of 
thought, I dont think the account was mis-sold to her. I know this isnt the outcome  that she 
was hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I have come  
to this conclusion.  
Mrs M says that Halifax told her she had to get the URCA so that she could get an overdraft. 
But Halifax  has sent us evidence to show that Mrs M originally opened her account as a fee-
free account  in July 2008  and this account  had an overdraft facility on it of £250. I can also 
see that when  the URCA was sold to Mrs M, her overdraft facility remained the same at £250.
As such,  based  on this information,  I cant reasonably  conclude  that Mrs K, as she recalls,  
was misled into thinking that agreeing  to the URCA was her only option to get an overdraft. 
So I think that Mrs M was aware,  at the time of the sale, that she could get an overdraft  on a 
fee-free account  and that she chose  to upgrade to the URCA.
I cant see that Halifax carried out a review  of Mrs Ms circumstances or made a personal 
recommendation to Mrs M to take out the URCA.  So I think  the URCA was likely to have 
been sold on a non-advised  basis. But Halifax was still required to give Mrs M enough 
important information  about the account,  so that she could decide for herself whether it met 
her needs.
Ref: DRN68175692I think Halifax gave Mrs M some  information about the URCA and the benefits it provided 
when it was sold to her. For example,  Mrs M has said she was aware the account came with 
mobile phone insurance.  She says she chose not to register  phones  on the mobile phone 
insurance, but Halifax has provided evidence to show that she did in fact register  two phones 
 a Nexus on 4 August  2011 and an iPhone 4s on 18 April 2013. 
Mrs M says that she wasnt made  aware that there  was a monthly fee or that breakdown 
cover was provided with the account.  However, based on Mrs Ms recollections of the sale, 
I think its possible that she was told about them but simply doesnt remember,  which is 
understandable given  that it happened many  years ago. I say this particularly as I think  its 
likely that in making the account as attractive as possible to Mrs M, Halifax wouldve told her 
about all of the benefits of the account. And I think its unlikely that Halifax  wouldve  only 
mentioned the mobile phone benefit  in isolation,  given that the account offered a number of 
other benefits.
Mrs Ms recollections of the sale seem  to centre around needing the URCA for an overdraft. 
And at the time, Halifax charged  £1 for every  day that an account  holder used a planned 
overdraft on a fee-free  account. Whereas  the URCA offered, amongst other benefits, up to 
£300 interest and fee free overdraft facility, in return for a £12.50  monthly fee. So if Mrs Ms 
account went overdrawn up to her agreed limit for 13 days or more  in a month,  the URCA 
wouldve worked out cheaper  than if Mrs M kept her account as a fee-free one and paid the 
£1 daily overdraft fee instead. And having looked at Mrs Ms bank statements, I can see that 
she was regularly using  her overdraft. So I think its likely that this benefit wouldve  been 
discussed with Mrs M and it is perhaps this benefit that Mrs M recalls being  talked  about  
during the sale of the account.  And based  on her circumstances  it looks like this benefit  was 
an attractive feature  to her.
Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Mrs M everything it shouldve  about the packaged  bank 
account. But I havent seen anything to make me think that she wouldnt have taken out the 
URCA had she been  told everything about  the account. For example Mrs M says she wasnt  
told about the breakdown cover during the sale, but when she received information about  it 
shortly after the sale,  she went on to rely on it.
I can see that Mrs M says she tried to downgrade her account but was prevented from doing 
so. But I havent  seen anything to show that Halifax unfairly or unreasonably  prevented  
Mrs M from downgrading her account. On the contrary, Mrs Ms testimony suggests that the 
downgrade process has been explained  to her and she has since  gone  through  it online. 
I note that Mrs M does say however that she cant close the account  without paying off her 
overdraft. But this is correct. Its a standard industry  practice that banks require overdrawn 
accounts to be brought  out of an overdraft and into credit (or to a zero balance) before they 
can be closed. So I cant say that Halifax is being unreasonable in requesting  she do this 
first. However if Mrs M is now struggling  financially  to repay her overdraft, then she should  
raise her financial  difficulties with Halifax so that it can provide her with further help and 
support on this matter.
Mrs M has also said that when going through the downgrade process, she noticed  that she 
had to credit  £750  a month and have  2 Direct Debits  running on the account. Mrs M says she 
qualifies for neither  of these and so thinks this is further proof that her account was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN68175693I understand that Mrs M is referring to the criteria to be eligible to receive a £5 monthly reward  
payment on her URCA.  But, if Mrs M was not meeting the criteria, she was still eligible to have 
the URCA and all the other benefits  it came with  its just that she couldnt also receive the £5 
monthly reward payment.  So this in itself wouldnt mean the account  was mis-sold.
So having  carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold to Mrs M. 
I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mrs M the account 
fees that shes been charged whilst shes held the URCA.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6817569