K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is that his trading account was transferred overseas by DRS Markets 
Limited (DRS) in late 2017  without his knowledge and consent. He says he learnt about this 
in May 2018,  when  funds within the account could no longer be recovered. He seeks  
compensation for those funds.
background
Following referral of the complaint to this service it underwent extended treatment by one of 
our adjudicators, featuring three views from the adjudicator and submissions by the parties 
(including DRS solicitors) prior to and between  those views. A summary is as follows:
Initially, the adjudicator upheld the complaint. She noted that Mr W deposited 
USD85,000 into the account to open  it in March 2017; that his account number 
changed in November that year but the change did not interrupt his trading; that 
evidence of a telephone  conversation  between the parties in May 2018  suggests that 
Mr W learnt, for the first time, during that conversation about  the transfer and that he 
could no longer access the account by that time;  that there is no evidence  of notice to 
or consent from him in relation to the transfer (in November 2017); and that Mr W 
should receive a refund of his funds up to when he lost access to the account,  
because he had been trading up to then, and should receive £100 for the trouble and 
upset the matter has caused him.
DRS solicitors  rejected this outcome on its behalf. In the main, they argued that the 
adjudicators view wrongly rests on the conclusion  that Mr W was not aware of and 
did not consent to (expressly  or implicitly)  the transfer; that the telephone 
conversation in May 2018, which the view relies  upon, is likely  to have been a 
smokescreen designed by Mr W (and perhaps  performed by his brother) to conceal  
his awareness of (and consent to) the November 2017 transfer; that this service 
should probe  evidence  about the conversation further; that the timing of the 
conversation shortly after the transferor firm was put into liquidation is suspicious and 
it suggests Mr W sought to place responsibility  on DRS despite his agreement to the 
transfer; that evidence of changes in the trading platform and evidence,  from an 
official related to the transferor firm, that the transferor firm discussed the transfer 
with Mr W shows  his awareness of it; and that if this service decides  to uphold the 
complaint redress should reflect Mr Ws trading  losses (and the reduction in the 
account balance) between November 2017 and May 2018.
The adjudicator  reviewed the matter,  revised her view and concluded that the 
complaint should not be upheld. She was persuaded by some  of the arguments from 
DRS solicitors   particularly the points  about  the change(s) in the trading platform,  
about the likelihood of Mr Ws awareness  arising from the change of his account 
number (and the platform)  in November 2017 and about overall doubt that the 
transfer could  have taken place without  Mr Ws knowledge.
Mr W disagreed  with this outcome. He presented evidence that the trading platform  
before and after November 2017  remained broadly the same  its appearance was 
the same, the same software was in use and even his password  remained the same. 
He reminded the adjudicator that there is no documentary evidence  of notice to or 
consent from him in relation to the transfer   contrary  to the requirement in DRS 
terms to issue written  notice in such circumstances. He conceded a telephone  
Ref: DRN64741262conversation in November 2017 about  the change in the account number but said he 
was not told that it resulted from a transfer  and that holding  an account with a UK 
regulated firm was paramount for him so it is inconceivable that he would have 
agreed to transfer  his account overseas  or that he would have been aware of such  
a transfer and done nothing about it.
The adjudicator  reviewed the case further and considered additional  evidence.  She 
revised her second view and issued  a third view which reverted to her initial 
conclusion  that the complaint should  be upheld. She noted that some  of DRS 
arguments may hold some merit and she established that, as DRS suspected, it was 
not Mr W who featured in the May 2018  telephone call  it was his brother  but on 
balance she was more  persuaded  by the argument that the transfer was unlikely to 
have happened  with Mr Ws awareness or consent without  some  form of record of 
DRS notification to him. No such record exists  and she agreed with Mr Ws point that 
DRS responsibility would reasonably have included the production  and retention  of 
such record. The adjudicator also noted evidence that the platform  had not changed, 
defeating the argument that Mr W would have been aware from such  a change. She 
concluded that he should receive a refund of his account balance  as it was on 11 
May 2018, after which he no longer had access to the account and no longer traded 
in it, plus £200 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
DRS disagreed  with this outcome. It questioned  Mr Ws credibility in light of his 
brother impersonating  him in the May 2018  telephone call. It said he would have 
received communication directly from the transferor  firm from November 2017 
onwards, which would have informed him about the change  and transfer. It retained  
its suspicion about the timing of the May 2018 telephone call and queried the 
difficulty in establishing what  Mr Ws account  balance was on 11 May 2018 given that 
evidence about the account  at the time is unavailable from the transferor  firm. The 
adjudicator was not persuaded  to change her third view and the matter was referred  
to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  appear to have exhausted  their arguments in this complaint and I am satisfied 
that the changes in the adjudicators views  reasonably  reflect the manner in which  those 
arguments progressed  over time. The core issue is clearly the transfer  of Mr Ws account in 
November 2017  and the main questions that arise  are whether (or not) it was done with his 
consent or, if not, whether  (or not) it was done  with his awareness  if so, can his implicit 
consent can be inferred  from such awareness and the absence of his objection to the 
transfer thereafter?
There is a notable lack of documentary evidence, overall, in this complaint. As Mr W 
asserted and as the adjudicator accepted,  there is no evidence of notice of the transfer from 
DRS to Mr W before,  in or after November 2017. DRS best argument, in terms of notice, 
refers to a statement from the transferor  firm saying it notified Mr W about the transfer   but 
that is in dispute and there is no documentary evidence of a written notification  in that 
respect. DRS reference to witness testimony  about this is also in dispute. Mr W concedes 
that he spoke  to DRS  not the transferor firm  around the time his account number was 
changed but affirms that no notice  of a transfer was given to him during the conversation.
Ref: DRN64741263DRS duty to have formalised an important event  like the transfer of a customers trading 
account ought not to be in dispute. The event  effectively sought to terminate its contractual 
relationship with Mr W. It would arguably  have  involved a process  for proposed  assignment 
or novation  of that relationship to the transferor firm and observation  of Mr Ws right to be 
made aware  of what was going on, made  aware of what was being  proposed  and given the 
opportunity to decide whether to proceed with the transfer or to decline it and withdraw his 
funds from the account. As Mr W said, DRS terms also appears to have required written 
notice in the circumstances. Overall,  the process  would  have  produced a reasonable body of 
record, including written  record. No such record, written  or otherwise, exists between  DRS 
and Mr W in this respect. It is reasonable to conclude that Mr W was not notified  about the 
transfer and that his consent was neither sought  by nor given to DRS.
In terms of awareness, the change of account  number  is not in dispute and the same applies 
to notice that Mr W received in this specific respect.  However, he says the notice  did not 
refer to the transfer and no other  material changes  appear to have happened. DRS 
reference to communications from the transferor  firm to Mr W is without documentary 
evidence of such communications.  The trading platform appears to have remained broadly 
the same  and it does  not appear to be in dispute  that Mr W continued to trade between  
November 2017  and May 2018 with the same access password.
I have noted the strength of feeling  behind DRS doubt over Mr Ws credibility. I understand 
the basis for its doubt, especially  given its point about his brother impersonating him during 
the May 2018  call. I do not propose to dispel DRS doubt  but I also do not consider that any 
such doubt leads,  on balance, to the conclusion that he was aware  of the transfer.  An 
assertion about  his brothers presence in the May 2018 call does  not automatically mean 
that he was aware,  and attempted  to conceal  his awareness, of the transfer. It is arguable  
that any such attempt  could have been  achieved even if it was Mr W who made the call  all 
that the person (Mr W or his brother) had to do was to deny knowledge of the transfer. 
More is needed  to establish the conspiracy that DRS alleges. Even consideration  of its point 
about the timing  of the call does not help. Evidence  suggests that access  to the account 
stopped around  the time of the call, so despite any liquidation event that happened at the 
same time it remains plausible that the call was prompted by the access  problem. I have 
listened to the call and the access problem was its feature, before DRS referred to the 
account having been closed and transferred to the transferor firm. Overall and on balance, I 
am persuaded that Mr W did not receive notice of the account transfer, did not consent  to it 
and did not become aware of it until May 2018.
what must  the parties  do?
My aim is to put Mr W back into the position  he would have been in if his account was not 
transferred, without his knowledge or consent,  in November 2017. However, in the context of 
reasonableness and fairness, I must  reflect  the fact that he retained access to and continued 
to trade  in the account between November  2017 and 11 May 2018 (when he no longer had 
access to it and learnt it had been  transferred). The parties must do the following:
Mr W must provide sufficient and accurate evidence to DRS to establish his account  
balance as of 11 May 2018.
Upon receipt of that evidence DRS  must pay Mr W compensation in the amount of 
his account balance as of 11 May 2018.  DRS  must also pay interest, at the rate of 
Ref: DRN647412648% simple  per year, on the compensation amount from 11 May 2018 to the date of 
settlement. This is to reflect the fact that Mr W has been deprived of use of the 
account balance  since 11 May 2018. Income tax may be payable on such  interest.
DRS must pay Mr W £200  for the trouble and upset caused to him in this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I order  DRS Markets  Limited  to pay 
him compensation as detailed above, including £200 for the trouble and upset he has been 
caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6474126