K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc was irresponsible when it increased his 
overdraft and then lent him £3,000.
background
On 22 May 2019 I issued  a provisional decision saying that subject to any further comments 
or evidence  from Mr W or NatWest, I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint. I outlined the 
background of Mr Ws complaint as follows:
Mr W extended his overdraft to £3,000  and then took out a loan of £3,000 to pay it off. But 
he used his overdraft  again and is now £6,000 in debt. Hes explained to us that he spent 
this money gambling  and he thinks NatWest shouldve realised he had a problem. So he 
says it was irresponsible when it lent him the money. He wants NatWest to freeze the 
interest and to agree a repayment  plan so he can clear the debt.
NatWest said Mr Ws overdraft increased to £300 in February 2014, to £1,000  on 2 July 
2018 and to £3,000  in July 2018. And it granted his application for a loan on 20 August 
2018. It said the overdraft increases were arranged  through one of its branches and it 
carried out a number of checks before approving them. The final overdraft increase was 
agreed when Mr W said he needed it to pay a number of bills. Mr W then applied for the loan 
online. He had been running his account  satisfactorily. And he hadnt contacted  its financial  
difficulties team. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ws complaint should  be upheld.  He said that in line with good  
industry practice NatWest  not only needed to make sure Mr W could afford the lending;  it 
also had to assess whether it would cause  him significant harm. He could see from Mr Ws 
bank statements that he gambled over £24,000  between March and June 2018, and £7,700 
in July and August 2018. His income  was generally  around £360 to £380 a week and 
although he received some  significant winnings during this time our investigator didnt think 
they should be included in the banks assessment of income. 
Although the decisions  were  automatic,  which he said is quite common  in the industry, he 
thought NatWest had enough information to assess Mr W had a serious gambling problem. 
So he concluded its lending  was irresponsible.
NatWest wasnt happy with this. It said Mr W had his current account  since August 2011  and 
there hadnt been any issues  with it. He told NatWest the last overdraft increase was to 
cover a series of bills. And in the loan application the income he declared demonstrated 
affordability. It said Mr W continued to make  funds available to cover  the high level of 
gambling and was operating his account  successfully.  There was no evidence of financial 
difficulty. And there was no evidence hed informed  NatWest  he had a gambling  problem.  
It said that where a bank  notices gambling  transactions but the customer is not operating 
outside the terms and conditions of the account,  and has not asked for help, it wouldnt 
necessarily react to this. It said Mr Ws account continues to operate successfully within its 
terms.
Ref: DRN64809112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings based on the evidence available at the time were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The checks  a lender should carry out should be proportionate  to the size of the lending and 
the cost of repayment. But we cant say that a lender shouldve done any particular check. It 
seems to me that based on the information  available to it, Mr W met NatWests lending 
criteria. Banks are entitled to set that criteria  using  commercial  judgement  and I cant find 
that NatWest acted unreasonably in applying it to Mr Ws applications. The increase in his 
overdraft from £1,000 to £3,000 was in a branch but Mr W explained  in his applications this 
was to pay a number of bills. His loan application  was made online so he didnt speak to any 
member of staff who might have questioned him further about the increase in his lending 
within a short period.
But Mr W says that NatWest  shouldve known about his gambling addiction  from the conduct 
of his account. I know hell be disappointed when I tell him I dont agree. A customer is 
entitled to spend his money how he chooses,  and it isnt up to a bank to monitor  an 
individuals spending. As Ive already said, Mr W met NatWests criteria for lending.  And 
whilst there  were large gambling transactions over a short period of time, Mr W was 
conducting his account satisfactory and still is. So even though Mr W was using money  for 
gambling, the conduct of his account was such that I dont think NatWest  should reasonably  
have been aware  that his gambling was a problem for him. Gambling is a legitimate form of 
entertainment and a bank cant refuse to lend just because a customer is using his funds in 
this way. Theres no evidence Mr W told NatWest he had a problem and he wanted  it to help 
him. And the lending does not appear to be unaffordable.
So for those reasons I dont find the bank  was irresponsible when  it increased  Mr Ws 
overdraft and gave  him his loan.
Mr W has said he accepts  my provisional  decision. NatWest said it had nothing further to 
add. So for all the reasons I gave in my provisional decision above Im not upholding Mr Ws 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6480911