K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  Sainsburys Bank Plc is holding  her liable  for a loan which  she did not 
apply for.
background
Whilst abroad in September 2018,  three loans were  applied  for in Miss Ps name.  All three 
were paid into her current account with another bank   who I will call S.  Following  the 
paying in of the loans,  a number of transactions  were then carried  out using her card and 
PIN for the account  with S.
When Miss P first contacted S, she told it she had lost her card a few days earlier.  She 
couldnt explain how her PIN had been  compromised and was able to be used by a 
fraudster.
The chronology of the loans was as follows:
-a telephone application  with S and the subsequent paying in of a loan of £20,000
-an online  application with Sainsburys  and then the paying  in of £24,000
-an online  application with T and then the paying  in of £24,000.
Miss P contacted Sainsburys and advised that she had not applied for the loan.  Neither had 
she carried out the subsequent transaction on the account with S.  But Sainsburys did not 
uphold her complaint.   It told her that as the loan funds had been paid into her genuine 
account it was holding her liable for the money.
When she complained  to S, it decided Miss P had been the victim of an impersonation fraud 
where the loan was concerned so it debited her account with the funds, and closed  the loan 
account down.   However,  S continued to hold her liable for the transactions   a factor which  
is relevant in considering this complaint.
Our investigator did not think Sainsburys had done  anything wrong  in its decision  so Miss 
P asked  that an ombudsman make a final decision in her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen nothing  to suggest Sainsburys has been unfair  or unreasonable  in holding  Miss 
P liable for this loan.
The online application used Miss Ps genuine details  other than her email  address and 
phone number.  The person making  the application knew details about Miss P such as her 
date of birth, address,  marital status and employers details.  None of these would  be 
discovered by the loss/theft of the debit  card with S so I have to assume  the information was 
obtained from elsewhere.
Ref: DRN68998632The IP address  for the loan application  was recorded as being  in the UK when Miss P was 
abroad at the time.  But I cannot  ignore the fact that the money was paid straight into Miss 
Ps account.
Also, this is where  the complaint with S becomes relevant.  Thats because S is holding  Miss 
P responsible for the disputed transactions on her account  the transactions  which 
effectively used up the funds from all three loans.  I bear that in mind  when deciding whether 
I think Sainsburys has been  unfair in holding Miss P liable. And I also remind  myself  that 
there were a number  of successful logins to Miss Ps online banking with S during the same 
time  so I think Miss P would have  seen the fluctuation  in her balance.   I know  Miss P says 
this wasnt her  but again, its difficult to conclude Sainsburys has been  unfair  in relying on 
this evidence when  there is no other explanation  for her online banking  being compromised.
Because the evidence suggests Miss P authorised the payments from her account with S, I 
can see why Sainsburys has concluded she should  be held liable for the loan.
In the circumstances, I wont be asking it does anymore here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6899863