K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr W mainly told us that he was unhappy that PPI was added  to his mortgage  without being 
told it was optional and not a condition  of being  accepted for the mortgage. He said he had 
other means  to rely on to pay his mortgage if he couldnt work and this wasnt taken into 
account. He also feels that HSBC didnt  explain the policy costs clearly.   
Theres only limited information  about Mr Ws mortgage. None of the paperwork from the 
original sale is available  and HSBC couldnt  confirm  how the mortgage or PPI was sold.  But 
the banks records  show that Mr W had a PPI policy  that started  in February  1993  that 
protected his mortgage. And Mr W told us he applied for the PPI during a meeting  and he 
may well be right about that. So Ive taken all this information into account  when  thinking  
about this complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  feel there  was enough evidence to uphold this complaint. Mr W 
disagrees with our adjudicators view. So his complaint comes to me to make  a final 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
I dont know how HSBC  wouldve presented PPI to Mr W or explained it to him during  any 
discussions. There are no notes of a meeting  with HSBCs advisor  but I wouldnt expect 
HSBC to keep  records  indefinitely. And it wouldnt  be reasonable to expect Mr W to 
remember exactly what he was told when he took out PPI as the sale happened so long ago. 
So I cant just rely on what Mr W says.  I have to look at everything  and decide  what  I think is 
most likely.
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that HSBC  didnt  make  it 
clear that it was open to Mr W not to choose  PPI if he didnt  want  to have it, just based on 
what he says now. The mortgage  was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long 
period of time. His home  wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. So, I can see why Mr W mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
I can completely understand why Mr W mightve forgotten this now.  But, on balance,  I think 
its more likely that Mr W was persuaded of the need to protect  his home  by taking out the 
PPI offered  and he decided to buy the policy. 
Ref: DRN67985182As I dont know exactly what was said about the PPI its not clear whether HSBC mightve 
advised Mr W to take out the policy. So, to be as fair as possible to Mr W, as he says the 
sale took place  during  a meeting, Ill look at his complaint on the basis that HSBC advised 
him to take out PPI with his mortgage.  This gives his complaint  the best chance of 
succeeding because  it means that as well as giving him clear information, HSBC  also had to 
take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr W.
HSBC told us that it doesnt any longer have  a policy document from the date Mr W took out 
PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use afterwards  so I think its likely 
that in all main respects the policy that Mr W took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions.
As far as I can see, Mr W was eligible for the policy. 
Mr W told us his employer wouldve paid him sick pay for at least 6 months. He also said he 
had some other means  he couldve depended  on for at least another 6 months. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr W told us. But Im not persuaded that he couldnt 
have benefitted  from the PPI if hed needed  to claim. And I dont think that his circumstances 
meant he didnt need  it. Heres why I say this.
The policy paid a monthly benefit  for 12 months  per claim in the event of accident,  sickness  
and unemployment.  Having PPI meant Mr W could be sure his mortgage monthly 
repayments would be covered at whats likely  to have been a difficult  time if hed needed to 
claim in these circumstances. Repeat  claims were  possible, providing long term cover for the 
mortgage.
So I find that the PPI provided Mr W with worthwhile protection  in his particular situation and 
a recommendation  wouldve been  suitable.
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected Mr W. So, 
I dont think more information about  the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve made 
any difference to Mr Ws decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr W when he bought the policy.  But, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that he couldnt  afford the monthly premiums. Given  that Mr W was 
solely responsible  for paying his mortgage at the time, and the serious consequences of 
defaulting on a debt secured on his home, I think hed have  appreciated the peace of mind 
the cover  gave him (even  if hes forgotten now).  
Its possible that HSBC  mightnt have  given Mr W clear information about  all aspects of the 
PPI. But I think Mr W chose to take out the insurance and I can see why he mightve thought  
it could be useful. Taking all his circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the 
way HSBC sold him PPI, I dont  think that better information wouldve put Mr W off having  it. 
So I dont  find hes lost out as a result  of anything that HSBC  mightve done wrong. And 
theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.  
Ref: DRN67985183my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6798518