K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mrs B says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before 
adding the policy to her card. Its not possible to know  exactly  what was said during  the sales 
call when Mrs B took the PPI, and a copy of the call recording  is no longer available.  But 
Capital One has provided a copy of the sales script its representative would likely have 
followed at the time.  The script required the representative to present the policy  as optional 
and gain the customers consent  before adding it to their card. So overall  I think Capital One 
made it clear  that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  Mrs B has told us she was entitled to some  sick pay and could have relied 
on family to help her make her repayments. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
any sick pay Mrs B was entitled to, and whilst  Mrs Bs family would have wanted to help, 
their ability to would have been  dependent on their circumstances  at the time, which  could 
have changed.
Mrs B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt  cover  
 and based on what I know about  her circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve  been 
useful to her. So I dont  think  better  information  wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Capital  One didnt 
tell Mrs B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mrs Bs comments,  including what  shes said about being pressured 
into taking the policy. But for me to uphold this complaint based on this I would need to see 
persuasive evidence  that this is likely  to be what happened, which  I havent  seen.
Ref: DRN60160202my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6016020