K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same  time that Mrs S took 
out the store card in person in store.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs S says she was unaware  of the PPI and it was added without her knowledge  or 
consent. Ive considered what shes  said but Ive also looked  at the other  evidence  
available to come  to a decision on what I think is more  likely to have happened.  Ive seen 
a copy of the application form Mrs S saw and signed in store. In this there  is a section for 
PPI in which Mrs S has signed to agree  to take out the cover.  But theres nothing to 
suggest Mrs S couldnt have left this section blank  if she didnt want PPI. So based on 
the evidence Ive seen I think FICL made  it clear  that Mrs S didnt have  to take out the 
PPI and she chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember 
this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if the policy was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs S chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like she wanted  this 
type of cover. And looking  at her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. 
Mrs S says she was entitled  to some sick pay from her employer if she was off work, but 
she hasnt told us about any savings or other  means she had at the time. Upon a 
successful claim  the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Ss outstanding monthly balance for 
up to 12 months. Which wouldve been in addition  to and for longer than her sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So I think the PPI wouldve been useful  for her and I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
Ref: DRN65339502For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6533950