K821x#15Complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about how Tesco Personal  Finance  Plc (trading  as Tesco  Bank) dealt 
with his claim regarding  unsatisfactory  repairs.
Background
In November 2018, Mr Cs car failed  its MOT. The parking brake  efficiency was said to be 
dangerous (and so the car shouldnt be driven  until this had been  repaired) and a further 
major defect was noted. Mr C says he booked his car in for repairs to address the issues so 
that his car would pass the MOT.
Work was undertaken  which  Mr C paid for using his Tesco Bank credit card. Mr Cs car 
passed the MOT and was returned. However he noticed that the handbrake wasnt  holding 
the car when  it was parked on a slight slope. He raised this with the repairing garage and 
said he gave the garage a chance  to inspect the issue but it refused. He said he lost 
confidence in the garage and took the car to an alternative garage later in December. The 
second garage confirmed that the handbrake wasnt holding  when the car arrived  with it. 
Further repairs were undertaken.
Mr C raised his complaint  with Tesco Bank  in December 2018 saying that he had paid 
£375.25 using  his Tesco Bank  credit  card for failed repairs.
Tesco Bank received  information from Mr C about  his chargeback  request  in 
December 2018,  and said it tried to contact him to get further information but was 
unsuccessful. I did however  accept that it could  have  done more at this time to contact  Mr C 
and that it then provided incorrect timescales to him. Because of these issues it paid Mr C a 
total of £100.
Tesco Bank then passed Mr Cs complaint for consideration  under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) (s. 75). However  it said that because the repair  for the 
handbrake alone cost £35, and each individual  item listed in the invoice  was for less than 
£100, the minimum threshold amount  for a valid claim  under s.75 hadnt been  met. It also 
said that Mr C didnt  give the original garage the opportunity  to look at the issue and 
undertake any necessary  remedial work.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  be upheld.  She said that 
the contract  for repair  was a single contract  and therefore the cost was above £100  and 
within the s.75 rules. She didnt think the repairs were carried out to an acceptable standard  
and so said there had been a breach of contract.
Tesco Bank didnt  agree. It noted  that even if the total amount of the repair  bill was 
considered a single contract  there  was only a verbal contract between Mr C and the 
repairing garage in regard to getting the car ready  to pass  the MOT. It further said that even 
accepting that this contract was in place, as the car passed the MOT following the repairs, 
the contract  was fulfilled.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ref: DRN63179852Under s.75, the borrower under a credit  agreement has, in certain circumstances, an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider  if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or services. 
Tesco Bank said that the failed repairs fell below the £100 minimum threshold for a 
s.75 claim. I did not agree  with this. I found that Mr C booked his car in for repairs 
and the repairs  were undertaken as one contract  which cost around  £375. I also 
noted that even if the costs relating to the handbrake were identified  separately then I 
would expect the total all of the items linked to the brake repairs  to be included which 
again meant the cost was above  the £100  minimum threshold.  Therefore I found that 
Mr C had a valid claim in regard  to the monetary thresholds.
I found there was a breach of contract as the repairs required following  the failed 
MOT were to the parking brake  and the evidence had shown these werent  
successful. Therefore I thought that Mr Cs s.75 claim should be upheld.
There were  repairs  undertaken to Mr Cs car that werent in connection to the braking 
issue and Mr C had the benefit of these  and so I didnt find these costs need to be 
refunded.
The repairs relating  to the brakes accounted for £215.35 of the total £375.25  invoice 
and I found that this amount should  be refunded to Mr C along with interest.
Mr C was caused inconvenience and distress by his claim not being  accepted.  I 
thought it reasonable that he be paid £100  because of this.
Tesco Bank accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr C provided  some  further comments regarding the facts of his case  which I have reflected 
in the background of this case. However  these  do not change  my decision. Mr C also said 
that he hadnt got any benefit from the £80 charged for the wheel alignment and this was 
only undertaken in an attempt to address the issues with the brakes. He said the work  was 
undone when  the brake repairs took place and then potentially reinstated.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  be upheld  for the reasons  I set out in my provisional decision.
I have noted the comments  made by Mr C in response to my provisional decision. In regard 
to the chargeback I can see that Tesco Bank contacted Mr C about this and that mistakes  
were made. These were acknowledged  and compensation paid which I find reasonable.
The outstanding issue related to the s.75 claim.  I find that Mr Cs claim should have been  
upheld as the payments for the repairs fell within the threshold amounts and the repairs 
werent of satisfactory  quality and so a breach of contract had occurred. I appreciate the 
point Mr C has made in regard to the wheel realignment however  as the claim was for the 
failed repairs to the braking system  I find it reasonable  that it is the costs that are directly 
linked to this that are refunded. Having  looked  through the invoice, I find that it is fair that 
costs of £215.35 are refunded to Mr C along  with interest.
Ref: DRN63179853As I also set out in my provisional decision,  I find it reasonable that Mr C is paid £100 
compensation for the inconvenience and distress he was caused  in dealing with his s. 75 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order  to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint, Tesco Personal Finance Plc should,  as it has agreed:
refund  Mr C the £215.35 he paid for repairs to the brakes along with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement; and
pay Mr C £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he has been 
caused due to the issues with his claim.
If Tesco Personal Finance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr C how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6317985