K821x#15complaint 
Ms R says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  on a credit  card taken out in July 2001.  
background
Ms R applied for the credit card and PPI through a postal application. Ms R paid a monthly  
amount for the policy. In the event of a successful claim the PPI covered Ms R for accident, 
sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months.  It also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. They considered Tesco hadnt provided clear  
information to Ms R about the cost of the PPI alongside the benefit the policy  provided.  They  
said Ms R had sufficient sick pay and savings which they considered  meant Ms R wouldnt 
have thought the policy was of good value.  Because of this they concluded  Ms R wouldnt 
have taken out the PPI. 
Tesco responded, querying Ms Rs sick pay and savings. It said that there was a 
discrepancy between  what Ms R had told it compared to what Ms R had told our service.
Our adjudicator queried the discrepancy in the information Ms R had provided our service 
and Tesco.  Ms R provided a detailed response  about her circumstances  and in doing so 
mentioned that she had also had a major operation  around  the time of sale in 2001. Our 
adjudicator thought that as Ms R had had an operation, and as the policy had exclusions 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions, then Ms R may not have been able to claim under 
the policy for anything  relating to the condition or any complications as a result of the 
operation. 
So our adjudicator upheld the complaint and recommended that Tesco place  Ms R in the 
financial position as if she hadnt  taken out the PPI.
Tesco disagreed.  Overall it said that Ms Rs sick pay and savings didnt mean  the policy 
wasnt of use. And it also considered Ms Rs operation was a one off operation  that was 
resolved, and it didnt  mean that Ms R was caught  by any pre-existing medical  condition  
exclusions, so the policy could have  been of use.
As Tesco didnt  agree,  and as the matter hasnt been resolved, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Rs case.  
I think this complaint should be upheld and Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
First, I would like to say that I disagree  with our adjudicator that Ms Rs operation meant  the 
PPI wasnt suitable.  Ms R herself  has said that the operation resolved the matter at the time 
Ref: DRN63451652and she had no further time off work  following the recovery period. Ms R also says it didnt 
affect her day to day life going forward. 
But I do agree  with our adjudicator that Ms Rs sick pay and savings meant she wouldnt  
have thought the policy was of good value.  Had the policys cost,  ongoing cost and the 
benefit it provided been made clear, I dont  think Ms R would have taken out the PPI.
This policy was taken when Ms R completed a postal credit card application form. As there  
wasnt any involvement by an adviser or representative of Tesco  no advice was given to 
Ms R about  the PPI. So the policy wasnt recommended to her. 
As Tesco didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms R, it didnt have to check that the policy was right 
for her. But, and importantly, it did need to give Ms R clear enough information to enable  her 
to decide for herself if this cover  was right for her. 
Within the application form there is a section for PPI. I can see that Ms R has ticked to 
confirm that she wanted  the PPI, but I dont think Tesco provided sufficient information for 
Ms R to make an informed choice as to whether the PPI was worthwhile for her.
Within the credit card application, the section  for PPI says:
Cardholder Payment  Protection (PPI) is designed to protect  your Tesco  credit card 
payments in the event of death,  accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment 
including redundancy.
We strongly recommend  you take out this cover. For cover just tick this box.
So it gave a broad  description of what the PPI was there for and what it covered, but it didnt  
explain the cost  and it didnt explain the benefits  such as the maximum duration for any 
one claim.  It also didnt refer Ms R to read any policy  summary or policy documentation for 
further information about the PPI.
Ms R has said that she didnt read any of the small print and wouldnt  have  thought to. As I 
said earlier, Tesco didnt recommend the policy to Ms R, but it had to give her clear 
information about the PPI so she could make  up her own mind. So I think there were 
information failings  on Tescos behalf.  
When I consider there are information failings (as in this case),  I have to think what  a 
consumer would have  done differently  and has there  been  any detriment to the consumer. 
In this case I think the information failing makes a difference and I think  Ms R would have 
done something differently. I think she wouldnt have taken out the PPI.
Ms R initially, when  she was in contact with Tesco about her complaint, told Tesco that she 
thought she received three months  full pay followed by three months  half pay from her 
employer if she was unable to work  because  of an accident or sickness. She also thought 
that she had around  £10,000 savings.
Tesco thought  that this meant that the policy could have been of use to Ms R as the PPI 
provided up to 12 months cover  for a successful claim.
But since  the complaint has been  with our service  Ms R has provided detailed  testimony  of 
her employment, and of her life in general, around  the time the policy was taken.
Ref: DRN63451653Having read Ms Rs testimony it is clear that she did receive a windfall in 1997. Ms R has 
explained why she received this windfall  and I see no reason to doubt it. Ms R initially  
thought that she would have had around £10,000  left of the windfall in 2001  (which she told 
Tesco originally). But when our adjudicator asked for more detail, Ms R took the time to 
revisit the period of her life around  that time and the time of taking the credit card and PPI. 
She worked  out that it was more likely  that it was at least  £5,000.  
But Ms R, in revisiting her circumstances  around 2001, also took the time to find out more 
about her employee  benefits. Ms R had worked  within the private  medical profession for a 
considerable amount of time. Ms R wasnt sure initially when Tescos enquired, and thought  
it was three  months  full pay followed by three  months  half pay. But this was just an 
assumption. Ms R says she actually received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay. Ms R apologised for any confusion this caused as she wasnt  too aware of the impact of 
her sick pay. Her main reason for complaining  was that she wasnt aware that it had been  
added. So her sick pay wasnt a focus.
From what  I know about jobs in the sector  Ms R was employed  in at the time of taking out 
the policy, I think its likely she would have  received  the level of sick pay that she says she 
received. So I have no reason to doubt  what Ms R has said about her sick pay.
Having carefully considered Ms Rs circumstances around 2001, whilst  I appreciate  there 
was a discrepancy earlier on, I am satisfied that Ms R received six months full pay followed 
by six months half pay from her employer in the event she was unable  to work because  of an 
accident or sickness. And I am satisfied  that she would have had at least  £5,000  in savings   
at the time the policy was taken out. Ms Rs testimony is plausible, and again,  I have  no 
reason to doubt what Ms R has told us.
So, given what I know about  the employee  benefits Ms R would have been likely to receive 
as a result  of her job role, and the savings she held, I dont  think  that Ms R would have 
thought the policy was value for money if she had fully understood the costs of the PPI 
alongside the benefit it provided. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont  think  that Tesco  gave clear  enough  
information to Ms R to enable her to decide if the policy  was right for her. And, if it had, I 
dont think she would  have taken the policy out as I dont think  she would have considered  it 
value for money.  
So I think Ms R has lost out as a result of what Tesco did wrong. 
putting things right 
Tesco should put Ms R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.Tesco  should find out how much Ms R would  have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN63451654Tesco should then refund the difference between what Ms R owed when  she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms R made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  Tesco can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Tesco  should add simple interest  on the difference between what  Ms R would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  Tesco  works out what Ms R would have owed each month without PPI  Ms R 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, Tesco should also pay simple  interest  on 
the extra Ms R paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Ms R 
would have owed Tesco something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.Tesco  should tell Ms R what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Tesco  to take off tax from this interest.  Tesco  must give Ms R a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  compensate Ms R as Ive explained  above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6345165