K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited wrongly removed him from a group 
private medical insurance scheme and wont  move  him back.
background
In 1980, Mr C worked for a particular company (which Ill call Z). He became a member  of 
Zs group private medical insurance scheme, which  was held with BUPA. Mr C continued  
working for Z until 1994 and is now in receipt of a pension from Z.
Mr C continued to have  private medical cover through BUPA.  In 2017, he noted that he was 
paying more for his cover than were his former  colleagues at Z. He questioned this with 
BUPA. It told him that this was because he wasnt a member of Zs retirees  group scheme  
and hadnt been for at least fifteen years, which was as far back as its records  went.  It 
further explained that Zs retirees group scheme  was currently closed to new members so it 
was unable to transfer him into it.
Mr C looked back at his BUPA  membership certificates from which he noted  he had been a 
member of Zs group scheme  from 1980  to 1988 but apparently stopped  being a member 
from 1989. He said BUPA hadnt written to him at that time, or at any other time, to say the 
status of his membership  had changed. He said hed believed he was still in membership of 
the group  scheme until he noted the discrepancy in premium  between  him and his former  
colleagues in 2017.
BUPA wouldnt change its position.  Mr C therefore referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to not uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
Mr Cs complaint is about an event  which had taken place 28 years earlier.  Over that period, 
he has continued to receive annual policy documentation from BUPA and there  has not been 
a single mention  of Z. Nor, over the same  period, has Z sent Mr C anything to suggest he 
was still a member of its group scheme. I understand why, if BUPA  had simply made an 
error, Mr C may not have immediately noticed the absence of any reference to Z on his 
membership certificate. But Im surprised the omission of any reference to Z hadnt occurred 
to him sometime before  2017, particularly as during  this period he retired  which,  if he had 
still been in Zs group scheme, would have necessitated him transferring to Zs retirees 
group scheme. Unfortunately,  the passage of time before he has raised this matter  makes 
any investigation of fault very difficult.
I dont find it surprising that BUPA had no records from so long ago. It tried to get information 
from Z but unsurprisingly it had no records from that time either.
Mr C considers that it was BUPAs  administrative error which caused his removal from the 
scheme. I cant  discount that possibility. But as BUPA has pointed out, there are other 
plausible reasons. For me to find in favour of Mr C, I have  to be satisfied that the probable  
reason for his removal from the group scheme  was an error by BUPA.  In all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can reasonably conclude this.
In summary,  I cant reasonably establish what happened back in 1989. Mr C has been 
content since then to renew  his policy on the terms offered. BUPA  originally explained it 
Ref: DRN69100612couldnt move Mr C to Zs retirees group scheme  because it was closed to new members.  It 
has since re-opened the scheme  but has explained  that Mr C can transfer into it only if he 
undergoes fresh underwriting. While I recognise  it will come as a disappointment to Mr C, I 
think BUPAs  position is reasonable.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Mr C said he didnt accept my provisional  decision. He said BUPAs claim that he hadnt 
been a member of Zs retirees  group  scheme  for at least fifteen years  contradicted  its advice 
to him that its records went  back only ten years. He said once  his membership of the group 
scheme had started, Z had no involvement in the policy;  he had paid his premiums  directly to 
BUPA and had received correspondence  directly to his home address. This was why hed 
been unaware of his removal from the group scheme until recently.  He said it was 
inconceivable that he would have voluntarily given up the benefit provided through 
membership of the group scheme.  He therefore  maintained that, in the absence of any other 
explanation, his removal must have been  due to an error by BUPA.
BUPA didnt  respond to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should not be upheld.
I note Mr Cs explanation  of why he hadnt noticed  his removal from the group scheme 
sooner. The fact remains that he is complaining  about something which  took place 28 years 
ago. I dont think the discrepancy in BUPAs descriptions of how far back its records go is 
important. Im satisfied that its records dont  go back to the date of the alleged error and I 
dont find this surprising.
This means  there is no evidence to show why Mr C was removed from the group scheme. 
Mr C says it is inconceivable that he would have voluntarily removed himself. But BUPA  
says it wouldnt have  removed him against  his will and without informing him. It has 
suggested it could  have been because  Mr C wanted to move  to a different type of policy  or 
because of changes  requested by Z.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I cant reasonably  establish  what  happened  so long ago. 
I cant rule out that BUPA made an error.  But neither can I rule out other scenarios in which  
BUPA wasnt at fault. In view of this, I cant reasonably ask BUPA  to refund any premiums  or 
move Mr C into the group scheme without him having to undergo  fresh underwriting.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6910061