K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc has applied  excessive charges on his 
account over many  years while he has been experiencing financial difficulties. He says it 
couldve done more  to help him and the charges contributed  to his financial hardship. He 
wants some  of them refunded. 
background
NatWest said in its final response that It wasnt able to investigate  charges applied to Mr Ls 
account more  than six years ago  that is before 2012. But in the last six years  all charges 
have been applied correctly in accordance with the accounts terms and conditions.  It 
suggested Mr L contact  its financial difficulties team who could assist him further.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Our rules say we can only look at the charges applied since July 2012.  And the 
Supreme Court  has said a bank  can make reasonable  charges for a consumer going 
over a planned overdraft.
This Service  has previously decided that the account fees on this packaged bank 
account were reasonable and he isnt considering them. So far as interest  charges 
and arranged overdraft fees are concerned  Mr L had an overdraft facility  in place in 
July 2012 for £4,000. And NatWest has confirmed further requests to increase it were 
declined.
The accounts terms and conditions provided  details of charges that would be 
incurred in having the overdraft and they were  brought to Mr Ls attention including 
when he took out the overdraft and on his statements.  Other charges on the account 
like those for going over the agreed overdraft  or for unpaid direct  debits were applied 
in line with the terms and conditions. 
Having and using  an overdraft facility alone  wouldnt  have indicated to NatWest  that 
Mr L was in financial difficulty. He very rarely exceeded the agreed limit and when he 
did the account was brought back within the agreed  limit quickly.  Although  Mr L was 
unemployed for many years this wouldnt necessarily show  financial hardship. His 
account was showing regular credits. Mr L also had savings  accounts  with the bank. 
But it wasnt for NatWest to tell him to use his savings to pay off the overdraft. 
Overall the charges  made were  in line with the accounts terms and conditions  and 
NatWest wouldnt have  been  reasonably aware Mr L was in financial difficulties. 
Although this was mentioned in Mr Ls claims for PPI the retail bank may not have 
had this information. NatWest wasnt in a position  to act positively and 
sympathetically sooner.  Its now done so and is assisting Mr L including  putting him 
onto a free bank  account with a bar on an overdraft.
Mr L remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. He says a number of 
detailed PPI investigations took account  of financial hardship. They provide a long term 
history of mismanagement  which NatWest  was fully engaged with at all levels.  It carried out 
financial manipulation so as not to disclose confidential information. He was borrowing 
money to pay debts caused  by his dire financial situation. He also had to use his savings to 
Ref: DRN60041562meet living expenses before he could access benefits. NatWest was formally  told of his 
financial difficulties and couldve moved  him onto a free account earlier  than it did. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Mr L had an overdraft limit of £4,000 in July 2012. The fact NatWest declined  his requests 
for it to be increased doesnt mean it recognised,  or shouldve been  aware,  he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
Im not persuaded on balance that any information disclosed in any PPI complaints wouldve 
been known to those at NatWest dealing with Mr Ls ordinary banking affairs. Whatever  
NatWest mayve been told when dealing with other  complaints Mr L brought,  including about 
PPI, I think  the way his account and overdraft were  managed wouldnt have reasonably 
alerted it to any financial difficulties Mr L says he was experiencing. 
The account  received regular credits  and when Mr L sometimes went  over his agreed 
overdraft limit the account was generally  brought back  within the agreed limit promptly.  He 
also has savings accounts and although Mr L now says he was using up his savings to pay 
for living expenses  until he qualified for benefits, I dont think  NatWest  wouldve reasonably  
known this this. And payments were  made  from the savings account into this account from 
time to time.
The fact that Mr L was unemployed for some years also doesnt  automatically or necessarily 
mean he was in financial difficulty.
I also agree  with the investigator that it wasnt for NatWest to tell Mr L to use his savings to 
pay off the overdraft. 
Overall Im not persuaded  that NatWest shouldve reasonably been aware of Mr Ls financial 
difficulties before it says it was. Since  then I think it has tried to assist Mr L and has treated 
him positively and sympathetically including by moving him onto a free account.
Prior to this Im also satisfied that the charges and interest were  applied to Mr Ls account  in 
line with the accounts terms and conditions.  Consequently I dont think  I can fairly or 
reasonably now require NatWest to refund any of the charges  its applied since July 2012 as 
Mr L would  like.
I recognise Mr Ls strength of feeling and frustration.  And I sympathise with the situation he 
now finds himself in. But taking everything  into account I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN60041563Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6004156