K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C complains that Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS) refused to let her reject a 
faulty car.
Background
In November 2017 Mrs C bought a new car funded by a hire purchase agreement.  She 
identified a fault with the sound system and a noise  on the drivers  side of the car. She took it 
back to the dealer to be fixed.  The dealer says it couldnt find a fault. The dealer say Mrs C 
first contacted it in July 2018. 
Mrs C disputes this and says she was in contact  earlier. I have noted an email from Mrs C to 
the dealer dated 25 November 2018 in which she refers  to the car having been taken in to 
the dealer on three occasions  that last one being  on 12 November.  She indicates that on the 
first occasion no fault could be found. The dealer has provided a job sheet dated July which  
appears to tie in with this first visit. It may be that Mrs C was in contact with the dealer before 
this, but it has no record  and she has been unable  to provide any evidence  as to when 
contact was made.
I understand that after three visits the dealer  was unable  to identify a fault with the sound 
system. I gather it resolved the noise problem, but it seems this may have been  caused by 
something the dealer had done. It also upgraded the cars  software  system. Mrs C has also 
complained that the dealer drove  the car for 170 miles as part of its testing process.
TFS rejected  Mrs Cs complaint and so she brought it to this service. It was considered by 
one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  He said he didnt have enough 
evidence to show there was a fault with the sound system or the noise issues.  He didnt think 
it appropriate that the car be rejected. He suggested Mrs C give the dealer a further  
opportunity to diagnose any faults and be presented with any reports  showing these.
He noted TFS had suggested Mrs C visit the dealer to look into the faults  which would be 
covered under the five year warranty. He explained  that the matter of the car being  tested for 
170 miles was not the responsibility of TFS and so he couldnt consider it.
Mrs C didnt agree and said the adjudicator  had given undue  weight  to the evidence 
provided by TFS and she was left with a faulty car
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
TFS is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
Ref: DRN67094792The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I can appreciate Mrs Cs frustration with the problem she encountered with her new car. I 
would expect a new car to be something to be enjoyed without faults. However, I dont  
consider I can uphold her complaint. I will explain why.
I have seen nothing  to show that the faults  were present at the point of sale. I acknowledge 
that Mrs C says she called the dealer before July 2018, but I am not sure when or what  was 
said during those conversations. Certainly I have  seen  nothing to show Mrs C identified  an 
issue in the months  following purchase. I note she said she was going to check  her phone  
records, but I have  seen nothing setting out the actual timescale.
Therefore, I am satisfied  that it is reasonable for the dealer to be allowed to fix the fault. I 
accept Mrs C has a problem with the sound  system,  but the mechanics havent  been able to 
resolve it after comprehensive testing. It may be that it will have to be replaced, but I 
presume this would be covered under warranty.
Normally it is possible to use another dealer to carry out warranty work and if Mrs C isnt 
happy with her dealer she may wish to take it to another one to see if the problem can be 
resolved. 
As for the issue of extensive road test being  carried out by the dealer TFS cannot be held 
responsible for that or for the level of service Mrs C says she received. Any complaint about 
the dealer should be addressed to the Motor  Ombudsman.
I appreciate that Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision, but I would expect TFS to work 
with her to have explore the fault and if found,  fixed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject  my decision before 25 
April 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6709479