K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the impact  TSB Bank plcs IT issues had on him.
background
In April 2018, TSB experienced IT problems. 
Mr M says as a result of this, he was unable to access  his account online for several  months. 
He was expecting  a large deposit into his account  and when  he went into branch to check  
this, his account balance was around £1000 less than he had expected. He was concerned 
that there  had been fraud on his account  and he was unable  to check  what had happened to 
the funds.
It later transpired that the £1000 wasnt missing and that the account balance was different 
to what Mr M was expecting because he says duplicate payments had left his account  and 
incorrect amounts had been taken. He had intermittent access  to cash  withdrawals and his 
debit card was declined many times even though he had sufficient funds. He says he spent 
numerous hours trying to get in contact  with TSB and experienced poor customer service.  
Mr M has explained how this has all been  extremely stressful  for him. 
An investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and thought  it should  be upheld.  He 
recommended that TSB pay Mr M £300  for the distress and inconvenience to him as well as 
£150 for call costs. TSB,  and initially Mr M, agreed with this resolution.
However, TSB deducted £25 from the £300.  They did this because they had already made a 
payment of £25 to Mr M when they considered  Mr Ms complaint. The investigator  said in his 
assessment that TSB could deduct any payments previously  made.  Mr M considered  that to 
be a different complaint and didnt think it was fair for them to deduct it from the £300 now 
recommended.
An adjudicator then considered this complaint and concluded that it was fair for the £25 to be 
deducted from the £300 because it was essentially the same  complaint.
As Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no doubt  that Mr M suffered stress and anxiety because of TSBs IT problems.  He 
couldnt access his account for several  months and check  his balance as he ought to have 
been able to. This caused him to worry about possible fraud on his account  which  must have 
been very stressful. His card was declined many times and he wasnt able to withdraw cash  
whenever he needed to. It is very difficult to put a figure on someones stress  and anxiety  but 
based on evidence  available  to me I think £300 represents a fair amount. And I note that     
Mr M also considered this to be a fair resolution  initially.
The issue  is whether it was fair for TSB to deduct  £25 from the £300  our adjudicator  
recommended. I think it was. I have considered the letter TSB sent to Mr M when they made  
the award for £25. And I can see a clear overlap between the complaint Mr M made  to TSB 
Ref: DRN61735412(final response letter in May 2018)  and the complaint  our service has considered.  So in 
these circumstances  I think  its fair for TSB to deduct £25 from the compensation our 
adjudicator recommended. I appreciate  Mr M also has another complaint with TSB where 
another £25 was offered  to him, I understand that complaint is still with TSB at present and 
we havent said that the £25 offered to him for that complaint should be deducted.
Our adjudicator also recommended TSB pay Mr M £150 in call costs based on what  Mr M 
had told us. TSB agreed to do this. I note TSB spent time on the phone to TSB chasing the 
compensation after our investigator made  their recommendation. TSB told Mr M they would 
reimburse him for these costs. Our adjudicator contacted TSB and as I understand it they 
have agreed to reimburse Mr M a further  £12.80  for this. Mr M has not provided evidence of 
the call costs. And in any event, I wouldnt be asking TSB to compensate  Mr M anything 
more than what they have already agreed  to as I dont think it was necessary for Mr M to 
contact TSB as much as he did in order to chase the payment. 
And I dont  think a further award for distress and inconvenience is warranted with regards to 
the further calls Mr M made  to TSB in early November regardless of what  TSB may have 
told him. This is because  it would  have been  clear  from the assessment the investigator sent 
out that TSB would  make the payment within around  three weeks if they agreed  with the 
outcome. The assessment was dated  2 November 2019 and the payments  were made on 9 
November 2018   so in fact much sooner even than the three  weeks. I appreciate  Mr M was 
concerned about  how this payment  would  be made  as his account had been closed. He 
emailed the investigator  after 4pm on Friday 2 November to ask. The investigator informed 
him by email on Tuesday 6 November 2018 that he would receive payment by cheque. So 
there was no unreasonable delay.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint against TSB Bank plc and require them to pay Mr M £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him as well as £162.80 in total for call costs.  I 
understand that TSB Bank plc have already paid Mr M £300  in total for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered as well as £150 towards call costs. So they now only need to pay 
Mr M a further £12.80  in call costs if they havent done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6173541