K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a consolidation  re-mortgage Mr and Mrs B took out in October 2007 
on advice given by a representative of Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G). 
Mr and Mrs B, who have  third party representation, believe  it was mis-sold.
Background
By way of a provisional decision dated 23 December 2019,  which  is attached below and 
forms part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis  on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties. Both parties  have 
responded already, and neither has made any further  submissions for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and in the absence  of 
any further comment from either party, theres  no reason for me to depart from my 
provisional conclusions,  so I dont.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B, or 
their representative on their behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62401352CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaints about  a consolidation  re-mortgage Mr and Mrs B took out in October  2007 on advice 
given by a representative of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G). Mr and Mrs B, who 
have third party representation, believe it was mis-sold.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, using my 
own words  to do so, and rounding the sums involved. No discourtesys intended  by that. Its a 
reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of 
the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying  Mr and Mrs B when my decision is published.
The mortgage  L&G recommended Mr and Mrs B take out was for £82,200 plus fees,  repayable  over 
fifteen years on a capital  repayment basis. It was initially on a ten-year fixed rate of 5.79%, replacing 
a mortgage that was on a fixed rate of 5.29%.  Approximately £62,200  repaid the existing mortgage,  
£199 paid for a will-writing package.  After the deduction of fees, the remainder was passed to Mr and 
Mrs B to settle two credit card balances and provide  £8,000 of new borrowing  to buy a car.
Mr and Mrs B complained in 2017 that the re-mortgage had been mis-sold. Their representative  said 
the advice to consolidate was unsuitable and that the inclusion  of the will in the sale adversely  
affected the advice.
L&G, for the most part, defended the sale. But it agreed that there was no need to add the cost of the 
will to the lending. It offered Mr and Mrs B a little over £96 to reimburse  the additional interest theyd 
paid because  of the inclusion of the will fee in the re-mortgage. It also offered  Mr and Mrs B £150 
compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
Our investigator thought the offer for the will-writing  was fair; he also thought the re-mortgage wasnt 
unsuitable, despite the ERC and higher rate. But he didnt  think adding to the new mortgage was the 
best way to raise  capital  for consolidation and new borrowing. He recommended L&G compensate Mr 
and Mrs B for the extra expense this brought them.
Both parties have  asked that the case be reviewed  by an ombudsman. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments  
to what  I think  is relevant. As I said earlier, if I dont  comment  on any specific point its not because  
Ive failed  to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think  
is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. 
Like the adjudicator, I agree  that L&G was right to offer Mr and Mrs B compensation  for including the 
cost of the will in the mortgage. By doing  so, its mitigated  the effect  on Mr and Mrs B of having done 
that. Theres no further finding for me to make  here;  Mr and Mrs B can accept  L&Gs offer if they wish.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative asked for an ombudsmans decision because  the investigator didnt 
find the new mortgage recommendation to be unsuitable; so Ive looked at that first. The new 
Ref: DRN62401353mortgage was on a higher  interest rate than the mortgage it replaced, plus the timing of the 
consolidation meant Mr and Mrs B paid an early repayment charge  (ERC) of around £1,900 on the 
mortgage redemption. 
It might seem obviously wrong at first glance to recommend a new mortgage at a higher rate than the 
existing one. But everything has a context, and its important to remember that this advice was given 
in 2007, before  the financial  crisis that would see interest rates fall suddenly  and dramatically  from 
late 2008 onwards. 
Until that happened, the general expectation across  the financial sector  had been that rates were 
more likely  to rise than fall in the medium  to long term. So, for a couple  whose stated ambition in late 
2007 was to have certainty and stability in their monthly costs, replacing  a 5.29% deal with a 5.79% 
deal fixed for the next ten years wasnt as incongruous then as it looks now with the benefit  of twelve 
years hindsight. I cant apply  that hindsight; I have to assess  the suitability of the advice  when it was 
given. For the reasons set out, Im not persuaded it was unsuitable in this case.
The business  asked for an ombudsmans decision  because the investigator thought  the consolidation 
was unnecessary; so Ive looked at that next. The consolidation allowed Mr and Mrs B to pay off 
creditors, and free up extra  cash  to pay for a car, but came  with a cost over the longer  term.  
Its not exactly clear  what interest  was being charged on the credit  cards; one is reported as being on 
a 0% deal at the time. Both of these factors  might point towards  a recommendation being unsuitable, 
but its important at all times to consider the individual circumstances.  
Even if both were on 0% deals  at the time (and theres no evidence  this was the case - Im simply  
giving Mr and Mrs B the benefit of the best-case scenario) its important to remember that such  deals 
are always time- limited. In Mr and Mrs Bs case, they were only making the minimum monthly 
payment (2%)  on their credit cards. So theyd have reverted to a normal  commercial rate (typically 17-
18% at that time) well before the debts could ever have been cleared. 
L&G has said that unless  the end date is known, it works  on a presumption  that any 0% deal has a 
further six months to rum. That seems  a reasonable approach to me, and applying it here means the 
long-term cost of L&Gs recommendation (including  the ERC)  would be considerably offset by the 
reversion of the credit  cards  to market interest rates. 
L&G wasnt in a position to advise Mr and Mrs B on their representatives suggestion of a separate 
unsecured loan as an alternative  to consolidation.  Even if it was, whilst such  loans are typically  
available with shorter terms than the fifteen years of the new mortgage,  their rates are generally much  
higher to reflect the greater risk associated with unsecured lending. So it cant be assumed that this 
would have been a cheaper option for Mr and Mrs B. 
The main alternative  was to wait until March 2010 for the ERC on their existing  mortgage to time-
out. Its worth reiterating here that the wait wasnt just a few months; had it been, I might  have taken 
a different view of the recommendation.  But this was to all intents and purposes two and a half years,  
and as indicated above, the credit cards  would have been on market rates for most  of that time. 
Mr and Mrs B were aware of that and agreed it was worth incurring the net cost to achieve their 
immediate needs. Im not persuaded  I should second-guess  Mr and Mrs Bs judgement here on what  
they considered  to be their priorities in 2007.
Ref: DRN62401354my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 13 January 2020, or sooner  if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6240135