K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that IG Markets Limited  stopped her from holding  shares in a company 
shed invested  in. She says it sold her shares without her consent  for a loss.
background
Mrs S bought shares in a company, T, through IG. In early 2019 IG wrote to Mrs S to say it 
had taken the decision to stop allowing clients to trade shares in that particular company 
through its platform.
It said Mrs S needed to sell her shares,  but if she didnt do so within  a month  it would do so 
for her. Mrs S didnt take any action and a month later IG sold her shares,  crystallising a 
loss.
Mrs S complained. She didnt think it was fair for IG to leave  her with a loss as a result of its 
decision to withdraw  this companys shares  from its platform. She said it should have either 
reimbursed her the original purchase price of the shares, or allowed her to transfer the 
shares to another platform.
One of our investigators  looked into things, but didnt think IG had treated Mrs S unfairly. So 
he didnt think it needed to compensate her for any losses she felt shed suffered. He 
thought it was within the scope of IGs discretion to add or remove the shares it allowed 
people to buy and sell on its platform.  And he thought  it had given Mrs S enough notice to 
sell the shares and repurchase them elsewhere  if shed  wanted to keep holding  them.
Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. She said IG ought to 
have let her move her shares elsewhere rather than forcing her to sell them. She said IG had 
enforced a loss on her, and she shouldnt be punished for IGs mistake in offering the shares 
in the first place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says IG shouldnt have let her buy shares  in T to begin with, if it was aware it might 
have to stop offering those shares  later on. So it should  reimburse  her the initial purchase 
price  putting her in the position  shed have been  in had she never invested.
IG, like any other business, ought to be able to use its commercial  judgement  to introduce 
and withdraw the products and services  it offers over time, for a multitude of reasons. It 
chose to allow Mrs S to trade in T shares  and I cant see anything  to suggest it shouldnt  
reasonably have taken that decision.  So I dont think it would be fair to tell IG to refund the 
money Mrs S lost on the trade.
IG didnt advise Mrs S to buy the shares, she made her own investment decision. 
Unfortunately the shares she bought dropped  in value, but I dont think  it would be fair to 
hold IG responsible for that. 
As Ive said,  I dont think it was fundamentally unreasonable  for IG to withdraw Ts shares 
from the broker service it offered Mrs S. But I do think it needed to ensure it complied with its 
Ref: DRN61209172own terms and conditions  and took steps to minimise or eliminate any negative  impact on 
Mrs S as a consequence of its decision.
IGs terms say it can terminate or suspend the arrangements  within  the agreement by giving 
30 days written  notice.  Thats what it did here. Im satisfied this was a reasonable period to 
provide Mrs S in order to make alternative  arrangements.
Mrs S has complained IG wouldnt let her transfer  her shares  in specie  to another  provider. 
But she could have  sold her shares  with IG, and used  the money to buy the same number of 
shares with another provider  essentially the same thing as transferring them. Had Mrs S 
done so and incurred any costs (brokerage  fees,  or if shed paid slightly more to replace  the 
shares) that might have been  something I thought IG should compensate  her for. But as Mrs 
S hasnt,  to my knowledge, bought T shares anywhere else Im satisfied there  are no such  
losses to address.
Mrs S says she was forced  to take a loss when IG sold her shares. But really shed already 
suffered that loss  the thing she owned (shares in T) was worth less than when shed 
bought it. The sale of the shares simply realised that loss. Mrs S might  take the view that T 
shares will go back up in value, recovering her losses. But Im not persuaded that IGs 
actions have prevented her from taking advantage of such  events  if they come  to pass, by 
reinvesting in the shares with another platform.  
Further, I note that Ts share price today is substantially lower  than it was when IG sold Mrs 
Ss shares.  So were  she to choose to continue  holding them, shed be able to buy the same 
number of shares for much less than she got for the ones she held with IG.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6120917