K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
The policy covered Mr K. It would have  paid Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage payments for up to 
24 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
In its response to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint, Nationwide accepted  that when the policy  was 
set up, Mr K would have  been entitled to a redundancy package which would have been 
enough to enable Mr and Mrs K to repay  the mortgage if Mr K had become unemployed. So 
it offered to refund the premiums to the extent that they related to the unemployment 
element of the cover, with interest on the refund. It explained that it had subtracted  the 
amount that Mr K received when he made  a successful unemployment claim on the policy 
from its offer.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  accept Nationwides offer. But Nationwide has confirmed  that it remains  
open.
Our adjudicator explained that because  Nationwide had already offered to refund the portion 
of the premiums relating to the unemployment  element of the policy,  he had only considered 
the accident and sickness element. And he didnt recommend that the complaint should  be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K say they believed that they wouldnt  be given the mortgage if they didnt 
take the PPI. Ive seen  a copy of their mortgage application. It includes a section on PPI. 
There are equally  prominent  options  to take or decline  the cover. The Yes box is ticked, 
to indicate that Mr and Mrs K wished to take the cover. It says they wished the policy  to 
cover Mr K, and that they required cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment,  with 
cover for 24 months. Theres  also a tick in the box to indicate that Mr and Mrs K wished 
to take additional  cover,  with £50 specified as the amount of additional  cover  required. 
This meant that in addition to paying £100  per month to cover Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage  
repayments, the policy would have paid out an additional £50 per month in the event of a 
successful claim.
Ref: DRN69722182I cant know what Nationwides representative said to Mr and Mrs K about the PPI. But 
I think the way the PPI was presented on the application form made  it clear  that the PPI 
was optional. And although the ticks in the boxes to take PPI and additional cover 
appear to be printed, I think  its more likely than not that the section was completed after 
a discussion with Mr and Mrs K about  their specific requirements. So taking everything 
into account, I think Nationwide  made  Mr and Mrs K aware  that the PPI was optional and 
that they took it knowing that they had a choice.
From  what we know about the way Nationwide sold PPI at the time, I think its unlikely 
that it recommended the PPI Mr and Mrs K. This means it didnt have a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. It was for Mr and Mrs K to decide whether they 
wished to take the policy, knowing  what other means theyd have had of making their 
repayments if Mr K was off sick or if he lost his job. But Nationwide needed  to give 
Mr and Mrs K clear  enough information  to enable  them to decide  whether the policy was 
right for them.
It may be that the information that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it should have been.  But Mr K was eligible for the policy.  And from what hes 
told us about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely  hed have been  affected by any 
of the main things  that the policy didnt  cover.
The cost of the policy was shown on the mortgage offer. So I think  Mr and Mrs K would 
have understood  how much  theyd need to pay for it.
I acknowledge that Mr Ks told us hed have been entitled  to generous sick pay from his 
employer. But if hed made a successful claim for accident  or sickness, the policy would 
have paid Mr and Mrs Ks monthly mortgage payments and an additional  £50 per month  
for up to 24 months per successful claim. Thats significantly longer than Mr Ks told us 
hed have been entitled to sick pay for. 
Ive also borne in mind that the policy would have paid out in addition  to any payments 
Mr K received from his employer. So Mr and Mrs K could have used those to cover other 
expenses. And they wouldnt have had to use savings to keep up with their monthly 
mortgage payments.
I havent considered the unemployment  element of the policy, because  Nationwide has 
already offered to refund  the premiums  Mr and Mrs K paid for that element of the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the cover for accident and sickness could have 
been useful  for Mr and Mrs K. And I think the peace of mind  it provided would have been 
important to them. Mr K was the main earner, and the mortgage was a long-term  
financial commitment, secured  on Mr and Mrs Ks property.  So Im not convinced  that 
that better  information  about the policy would have put them  off taking it out.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ks comments, including  what  theyve said about  having 
felt pressured  into taking the PPI. But to uphold their complaint on this point, Id need to be 
persuaded that its more likely than not that Nationwide put unfair  pressure on Mr and Mrs K 
to take the policy.  And I dont have strong enough  evidence to make me think that its likely 
that this happened.  So this doesnt change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN69722183As Ive mentioned  above, Nationwide has offered to refund the portion of the premiums that 
related to unemployment cover, with interest on the refund. That is what  Id have  required  it 
to do if Id found that the unemployment cover had been mis-sold. And I think  its reasonable 
that its subtracted the amount that Mr K received for a successful unemployment claim from 
its offer. So I cant require it to do more  in this respect than it has already offered to do. 
Nationwide has confirmed  that the offer remains open. So if Mr and Mrs K now wish to 
accept it, they should  contact  Nationwide directly.
Nationwide has also offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K 
because: 
When the policy was sold,  Nationwide got a high level of commission  and profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. 
Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold as far as it related to cover for accident and sickness  so 
Nationwide Building  Society does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs K. 
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  It should make this 
payment to Mr and Mrs K if it has not already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6972218