K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the amount that hes been charged by PSA Finance UK Limited, 
trading as Peugeot Financial Services, for damage to a car that he returned when he 
voluntarily terminated  his hire purchase agreement. He also complains  about  the service  that 
hes received from Peugeot Financial Services.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr F under a hire purchase agreement  with Peugeot Financial 
Services that he signed in March 2015. He contacted Peugeot Financial  Services in 
November 2017  about voluntarily terminating  his agreement  but he didnt return  to it the 
documents that he was sent. He contacted  it again in January  2018 and voluntarily 
terminated the agreement in February  2018 when  he returned the car. It was inspected by a 
third party on behalf of Peugeot Financial Services and some damage to the car was 
identified. Peugeot Financial Services charged  him £245 for that damage. Mr F complained  
to Peugeot Financial  Services  about  the charges and he said that: the damage to the alloy 
wheels was fair wear  and tear; no allowance had been made for him returning  the car early 
and with 6,000 miles less than the contracted mileage; the car was checked  by the dealer 
before it was returned and was in an acceptable  condition other than a chip to the 
windscreen (which was repaired); and the car was cleaned  before it was returned so a £50 
valeting charge  is unreasonable. Peugeot Financial Services agreed to waive the valeting 
charge and offered to reduce the other  charges by 25%. But Mr F didnt accept its offer and 
complained to this service  about those issues and about the advice that he was given about 
a voluntary termination.
 
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the damage to the cars alloy wheels wasnt fair wear and tear. And she said that the car 
had been returned with low mileage but that that didnt attract  any discount on the charges.  
And she thought  that Peugeot Financial Services had acted reasonably by offering to reduce 
the overall charges by 25%. She didnt  think that Peugeot Financial Services  had acted 
incorrectly in connection with the voluntary termination of the agreement  and she said that it 
had refunded £39.77 to Mr F in error - but had written it off as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr F has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that he considers  the damage  to be fair wear  and tear and that the car was valeted the day 
before it was returned and was immaculate inside and had only picked up some  dirt on the 
drive to the office   so a charge of £50 wouldve been totally  unfair and unreasonable.  And 
he says that hes frustrated and disappointed  that no consideration is given for the early  
return of the car and for it being returned  below the contracted  mileage.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F chose  to end his hire purchaser  agreement early  and he returned the car in February  
2018. The car was inspected  by a third party on behalf of Peugeot  Financial Services. The 
inspection report identified damage  to three of the alloy wheels, a dent on the rear door and 
that the car needed to be valeted  and it recorded the cars mileage as 47,031. The report  
recommended charges  of £65 for each of the wheels and a £50 valeting charge  (but no 
charge for the dent). The report says that the cars  exterior [was] dirty and difficult  to 
Ref: DRN60280372inspect and it included photos  of the damage  to the car. Peugeot  Financial Services  
charged Mr F £245 but, when he complained about the charges, it agreed to waive the 
valeting charge  and offered to reduce  the damage  charges by 25%. But Mr F didnt accept 
that offer.
The report   and the photos  - clearly shows damage to three  of the cars  alloy wheels. And 
Im not persuaded that that damage would properly be considered  to be fair wear  and tear in 
accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  guidelines.  So I consider 
that it was fair and reasonable for Peugeot Financial Services to charge Mr F for that 
damage (and its offered to reduce those charges by 25%).  The report  clearly  shows that the 
car was dirty - but Peugeot Financial  Services  has agreed to waive the valeting charge.
The car had been driven  for 47,031 miles when it was returned. And the annual  mileage set 
out in the agreement was 18,333 (a total of 55,000 over the three year term of the 
agreement). Mr F returned the car before the end of the term and had used the car to drive 
for less than the mileage limit  but Im not persuaded  that either of those factors  means  that 
Peugeot Financial Services should further reduce the damage charges.
Nor am I persuaded  that theres enough  evidence to show that Peugeot  Financial Services 
has acted incorrectly in connection with Mr Fs requests for information about  a voluntarily 
termination of his agreement. And Im not persuaded that the customer service that hes 
received from Peugeot  Financial Services has fallen below an acceptable level.  It did refund 
£39.77 to Mr F in error  but its written that off as a goodwill gesture.
I consider that Peugeot Financial Services  has acted fairly and reasonably in connection with 
the charges that its made to Mr F. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require it to further  reduce (or to waive) the damage charges that its 
made to Mr F  or to take any other  action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6028037