K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc formerly Leeds Permanent Building 
Society (BoS) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 1993 when they 
took out their mortgage.
To be clear in this decision I am only dealing with Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about whether 
the PPI was mis-sold. I am not looking at any complaint about life cover.
background
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  this PPI policy covered Mrs B only (not Mr B) in 
the event she was unable to work through an accident or sickness  or if she lost her job.
It would have cost her £21.00 per month and would have paid out Mrs B the sum of £300 for 
up to 12 months if she made  a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt need  the policy. They say their employment benefits  werent  
taken into account.  Theyve also told us they werent given a choice - it just seemed to be 
part of the package. And they say they werent  given the opportunity to consider other 
options.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B replied. In 
summary they said;
They had adequate other  means in place therefore didnt  need  the PPI.
The policy cost put a strain on them financially
Their mortgage  repayments were  more than the monthly amount the policy  would 
have paid out.
Unhappy with this view, Mr and Mrs B asked  that their matter be referred  to an ombudsman  
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
This sale happened in 1993  - so not all the information is available as it was such  a long time 
ago. Thats understandable and not surprising as businesses  arent  required to keep records  
indefinitely. Where the evidence is incomplete, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities  that is whats more likely to have happened taking into account the 
evidence we do have,  together  with what the parties have told us. Ive also thought  about 
what we know about these types  of sales at that time.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr and Mrs B were given a fair choice about  buying 
the PPI. Mr and Mrs B have said they werent  given a choice  and the PPI seemed to be part 
of the package. There arent many documents  from the time of the sale and I cant  say what 
Ref: DRN69749492was said to Mr and Mrs B at the time.  I have  noted from the original questionnaire that 
Mr and Mr B completed for this service that they told us that they couldnt  recall  the exact  
meeting they had at the time but that they both felt it was assumed that having the PPI was 
expected and the norm.  So from this I dont think Mr and Mrs Bs recollection of events is 
very clear - which  again  is understandable as it was such a long time ago. Its possible that 
the representative told them it was a good  idea to take out the cover but thats not the same  
thing as telling them they had to have it in order to secure their mortgage.
I have seen a copy of a letter from BoS around the time the mortgage was taken out which  
refers to the cost and the cover chosen. It looks like the policy was in Mrs Bs sole name 
which indicates that Mr and Mrs B made an active selection about who they wanted  to cover. 
The cost of the cover also appeared on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage statement; so if theyd 
wanted to question it I think they could  have done  so earlier  than they have done. I havent 
seen evidence that they did so. It also looks like the policy was cancelled  before the 
mortgage came to an end. So it looks as though Mr and Mrs B would have realised  it wasnt  
part of the mortgage. All in all I think its more likely they had a choice and chose to take it 
out knowing they could decline it if they didnt want it.
This looks like it was an advised sale. This put more responsibility on BoS for how it sold the 
cover. It meant it had to take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs B as well as giving them enough  clear information so that they could make an 
informed decision about whether or not they wanted to take out the PPI.
Overall looking at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and the policy  terms and conditions I think  
that the policy was suitable for Mrs B.
I say this because  I think  Mrs B (the person who was covered) was eligible for the cover. 
And as she was working and hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions she 
had, I think she could  have made  a successful claim if shed  needed to. I dont think she 
would have been affected by any of the main  limitations and exclusions set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt need  the policy. They say they had other means. Mrs B would  
have received sick pay from work for a full six months followed by six months  half pay. They  
have also told the business they had savings of around £2000 and to this service they said 
the savings were between £8,000 and £10,000.  However much  they had though this policy 
would have paid out on top of any sick pay Mrs B got from work and would have  meant 
Mr and Mrs B could  have used their savings  for other important living expenses if things 
went wrong. And the PPI paid out for longer than Mrs Bs full sick pay lasted and in addition 
to it. So I still think it was suitable. Mr and Mrs B also told us they had life cover and death in 
service benefits from work.  But thats not the same thing as PPI. PPI would have covered 
the mortgage repayments if Mrs B was too ill or lost her job. It wouldnt have  paid out a lump  
sum on death so I still think it was useful.
Mr and Mrs B have  also said they didnt have so much spare cash at the end of each month 
so the extra  cost of £21 could have come in useful.  But I cant say the policy  was 
unaffordable and as the mortgage was secured over their home,  the consequences of not 
being able to repay their monthly  mortgage  repayments were serious. Even if the mortgage  
repayment was more than the PPI benefit, on balance I think its more likely Mr and Mrs B 
chose the cover for the benefit it gave and even if it didnt cover the whole of the cost it 
would have contributed to the monthly payments  if Mr and Mrs B fell into difficulty.
Ref: DRN69749493BoS also had to give Mr and Mrs B clear  enough  information about the cover so they could 
make an informed choice.  I cant say the evidence was as clear  as it could have been. But 
as I have found I think they likely  chose the cover and for much the same reasons as I have 
found that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I still the cover was useful. So even if 
theyd been given better or clearer information  I dont  think they would have changed  their 
mind about  buying  the policy.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs B lost out as a result of anything BoS did wrong so I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6974949