K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, gave him loans
that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr M borrowed seven loans  from Sunny between  May 2016 and April 2017. Each of the
loans was repayable in six monthly instalments. All the loans have been fully repaid. A
summary of Mr Ms borrowing from Sunny is as follows:
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 14/5/2016 12/9/2016 £ 600
2 13/8/2016 31/1/2017 £ 250
3 18/8/2016 31/1/2017 £ 300
4 16/10/2016 31/3/2017 £ 550
5 11/2/2017 31/7/2017 £450
6 8/4/2017 29/9/2017 £400
7 12/4/2017 29/9/2017 £200
Mr M said that Sunny hadnt undertaken sufficient affordability checks. He said that if a full
and proper assessment  of his financial standing had been completed,  his loan applications
would have been declined.
Sunny said that it had conducted creditworthiness checks. It had carried out a credit check
and asked Mr M for his income and regular expenditure  details. It had considered how Mr M
was managing his other debt. In its final response letter, it concluded  that Loan 1 wasnt
suitable for Mr Ms needs. It offered to refund the interest and charges on Loan 1 and pay
8% annual interest on the refunds. It said that there were no adverse entries  to remove from
Mr Ms credit file for Loan 1.
Mr M rejected Sunnys offer.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt consider Loan  1 as Sunny had offered to compensate  Mr M for this
loan. But she didnt  recommend that Mr Ms complaint about his other loans  should  be
upheld. She said that based on Mr Ms income  and expenditure, Sunny wasnt  wrong  to
lend Loans 2 to 4 to Mr M. She also said that Sunny should have asked Mr M more about  his
circumstances for Loans 5 to 7. But when she reviewed Mr Ms bank statements and credit
report to see what better  checks would have shown, she concluded that Loans 5 to 7 were
affordable.
Mr M disagreed. He said that if Sunny had looked at his outstanding loans at the date of
lending Loans  5 to 7, Sunny would have  found them to be numerous  which  should have
influenced its opinion  on affordability. Mr M didnt think that Sunny had carried  out such a
check for Loans 5 to 7. If it had, he said that it would have  seen a pattern of unaffordable
lending.
Ref: DRN68671052The adjudicator responded to say that even if Sunny had carried out more checks, Loans 5
to 7 would  have appeared affordable.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Sunny on 20 February 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
I noted that Sunny had offered to compensate Mr M for Loan 1 in its final response letter. So 
I said that I wouldnt be investigating this loan. But I would refer to Loan 1 to provide context 
in terms of Mr Ms lending history.
I explained that Sunny was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to make 
sure Mr M could  afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr M was borrowing, the length of the
agreements and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks Sunny had to do.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr M borrowed from Sunny.
Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the customers  ability to
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner without the
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make repayments  without undue
difficulty, and that this means borrowers should  be able to make  their repayments on time
and out of their income and savings without  having to borrow  to meet those repayments.
So, the fact that the amounts borrowed and the interest paid might  have been low in
comparison with Mr Ms income, or that he managed to repay all the loans  in full, didnt
necessarily mean the loans were affordable for him and that hed managed to repay them  in 
a sustainable  manner.
Sunny had told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It had carried out a credit 
check and had provided us with some  information about its credit checks  which  Id referred 
to below. Sunny had also asked Mr M for details of his income and his regular expenditure 
before agreeing each loan.
Loan 2
Mr M had taken out Loan 2 three  months after Loan 1 at a time when he was still repaying 
the instalments  under  Loan 1. So his highest  total monthly instalments would have been 
around £246.76. Mr M had declared  an income of £3,050 and regular outgoings  of £1,250  to 
Sunny before Loan 2. So his stated disposable  income was £1,800. The total repayments  for 
both Loans 1 and 2 appeared to be easily affordable based on what hed declared to Sunny 
about his disposable income. Id also seen some  information  from Sunnys credit check, but 
it was not entirely  clear  to me what the information showed. But given the early stage of its
relationship with Mr M, I thought Sunny was entitled  to rely on what Mr M had said about his
finances. So, I thought it was proportionate for Sunny to have  considered Mr Ms declared  
income and expenditure, without making further checks  for Loan 2. So, I didnt think Sunny 
had done anything wrong in giving Loan 2 to Mr M.
Ref: DRN68671053Loan 3
Mr M took out Loan 3 just five days after taking  out Loan 2 and the loan amount had
increased to £300.  As Loans  1 and 2 remained outstanding, his highest  total loan
repayments on all three loans would have totalled  around £331.49. Mr M had declared a
disposable income of £1,900. I thought Mr Ms borrowing behaviour  might  have  caused  
some concerns to Sunny.  But his repayments still appeared to be easily  affordable based on 
what hed declared  to Sunny about  his disposable  income. On balance, I thought Sunny was 
entitled to rely on what Mr M had said about his finances. So, I thought it was proportionate 
for Sunny to have considered Mr Ms declared income  and expenditure without making 
further checks for Loan 3. So, I didnt think Sunny had done anything  wrong  in giving Loan 3 
to Mr M.
Loan 4
Mr M took out Loan 4 around two months after Loan  3. Loan 1 had been repaid by this time,
but the amount borrowed had increased  substantially to £550.  The highest  total repayments
on Loans 2 to 4 would have totalled around £314.73. Mr Ms income remained the same but
his declared regular expenditure had increased  to £1,300, leaving a reduced disposable
income of £1,750.
I thought Sunny ought to have been  concerned as to why a person with an apparently 
relatively high level of disposable  income was coming back  to it for a third loan in just over 
two months. I thought  that behaviour might have  caused some  concerns to Sunny. I also 
noted that Sunnys credit  check appeared to show  that Mr M had a delinquent account  the 
previous month.  I thought all these factors might have suggested to Sunny that Mr M was 
using short term loans  as a supplement to his normal income, rather than using them  to 
meet a temporary  one-off  problem, and that his finances were likely to be under some  
pressure. Id also considered that the loan was to be repaid over six months. So, although  I 
thought it was still reasonable for Sunny to rely on the information Mr M had declared to it, I 
thought Sunny should have additionally  asked him some very specific  questions about any 
other short term lending  he already  had outstanding.
Loan 5
Mr M took out Loan 5 just less than four months  after Loan 4. Loans 2 and 3 had been
repaid but Loan 4 was still outstanding. The highest total repayments on Loans  4 and 5
would have totalled around  £287.60. But I thought Mr Ms loans were by this time being 
taken sufficiently regularly  to show that Mr M was reliant on them. I also noted  that Sunnys 
credit check  appeared  to show  that Mr M had a delinquent account  the previous month. By 
that time,  I thought it should have  been clear to Sunny that it could no longer rely on the 
information Mr M had provided. I thought the amount and regularity of Mr Ms loan 
applications might  have suggested to Sunny by the time of Loan 5 that it should  look in much  
more depth at Mr Ms true financial situation  to assess the affordability of its lending.  It 
couldve done this in a number of ways. It couldve asked for evidence  of Mr Ms income and 
expenditure such as payslips  and bills, or it couldve looked at things like his bank 
statements.
Loans 6 and 7
Mr M took out Loan 6 around eight  weeks after Loan 5 when Loan  5 was still outstanding.
And Mr M took out Loan 7 just four days after Loan  6. The highest  total repayments  on
Ref: DRN68671054Loans 6 and 7 would  have totalled around £245  and £308  respectively. Id also noted that
Sunnys credit check appeared to show that Mr M had a delinquent account  the previous
month. Again I thought the pattern of Mr Ms borrowing and his credit  history might have
suggested that his finances were still under pressure. So I thought Sunny should again have
independently checked Mr Ms financial situation  before giving Mr M, Loans 6 and 7.
Although I didnt think the checks Sunny  had made  for Loans 4 to 7 were  sufficient, that in 
itself didnt mean that Mr Ms complaint about  these loans should  succeed. I also needed to 
see whether what I considered to be proportionate  checks would have shown Sunny that 
Mr M couldnt sustainably  afford  these  loans.
Loan 4
With regard to Loan 4, as Id said above,  I would have expected Sunny to have asked about 
Mr Ms short term credit commitments whilst  taking  into account Mr Ms declared disposable 
income of £1,750. Id reviewed his credit  report and bank statements for the month before 
Loan 4 to see what better checks would have shown Sunny. I could see that Mr M had taken 
out other short term loans which would have  required repayment  at the same time as 
Loan 4. The repayments on the other  short term loans appeared to total around £655. 
Taking account of those  and the repayments on Sunnys loans, it still appeared that Mr M 
would have had around £680 disposable income  left after repayment of Sunnys loans. So I 
didnt think that carrying out better checks wouldve uncovered anything  that wouldve 
stopped Sunny from giving the loan to Mr M. So, I didnt intend  to uphold Mr Ms complaint 
about Loan 4.
Loan 5
With regard to Loan 5, as Id said above,  I thought Sunny should have been independently
checking the information Mr M had provided. So Id tried to do this by looking at Mr Ms
bank statements and credit report at the time of this loan,  to see what  better checks would
have shown Sunny.  The bank statements might  not have shown Sunny everything it 
wouldve seen by carrying out proportionate  checks.  But I thought the bank statements were  
the best indication of Mr Ms ability to afford  the loan at the time it was approved.  So I didnt 
think it was unreasonable to rely on these.
If Sunny had checked Mr Ms financial information before Loan 5, it would have  seen that he
was earning slightly  less than hed declared,  around  £3,014. But, it also would have become 
aware that Mr Ms regular  expenditure was around  £2,500. And Id noted that Mr Ms other 
short term lending repayments which  would  have been payable around the same  time as 
Loan 5 were around £1,300. So overall, if Sunny had carried out what  I considered  to be 
proportionate checks before Loan 5, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that 
Loan 5 wasnt  sustainable.
Id also noted  that Mr M appeared  to have overpaid his mortgage payment by around £600 
in the month  before  Loan 5. But even if Mr Ms regular expenditure was reduced to around 
£1,900, Id thought Sunny  would have reached  the same conclusion from proportionate 
checks.
Loans 6 and 7
And if Sunny had checked Mr Ms financial information before Loans 6 and 7, it would have
seen that he was still earning a little less than hed declared, around £3,014. But, it also
Ref: DRN68671055would have become aware that Mr Ms regular  expenditure  had reduced to around £1,250.
And Id noted  from Mr Ms credit  report that his short  term lending  to be repaid around the 
same time as Loan 6 had reduced  to around £1,024  and for Loan 7 it had reduced  to around 
£894.
So overall I didnt  think that carrying out better  checks wouldve uncovered anything that
wouldve stopped  Sunny from giving  Loans 6 and 7 to Mr M. So, I didnt intend to uphold
Mr Ms complaint about these loans.
So, I thought if Sunny had done  what I considered to be proportionate  checks,  it would have 
seen the problems with Mr Ms financial situation.  And so, as a responsible lender, I didnt 
think it would  have  agreed to lend Loan 5 to him. So, I thought that Sunny needed to pay 
Mr M some compensation relating  to Loan  5 in addition  to the compensation it had already 
offered to pay on Loan 1.
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or Sunny my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and order Sunny to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr M paid on Loans 1 and 5;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to
    the date of settlement;
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  1 and 5 from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Neither Mr M nor Sunny has provided  any further  information in response to my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr M and Sunny have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require Sunny to pay Mr M some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr M paid on Loans 1 and 5;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to
    the date of settlement;
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  1 and 5 from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN68671056Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6867105