K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about the fees that he incurred when he was advised by Celandine 
Limited (referred to from now on as Celandine or the business) to switch  from a pension plan 
with Provider X to a new plan with Provider  Y. Mr B has also complained about Celandines 
poor complaint handling service and has accused  it of misrepresenting itself as having  
defined benefit  pension transfer permissions  which  it didnt have.
background
On 5 May 2017  Mr B met Celandine to request a second opinion on the advice he was 
receiving from another company, Company A, about taking an enhanced cash equivalent 
transfer value  of his benefits in the Occupational  Pension Scheme (OPS) of a former  
employer and transferring it to a Personal Pension Plan (PPP) with Provider X. The advice to 
Mr B from Company A was being  paid for by his former employer. The transfer value on offer 
from the OPS had to be invested with one large pension  provider, Provider X.
The enhanced transfer value (ETV)  on offer of approximately £680,000 was only available  
until 24 May 2017 after which it was stated that the amount  on offer would need  to be 
recalculated. The deadline for accepting the ETV was later extended on a number of 
occasions.
The advice from Company A, received  after the initial meeting with Celandine, was to accept  
the enhanced transfer value on offer and to transfer  to Provider X.
At the initial meeting Mr B should  have been provided with a Client  Agreement  and key facts 
about the costs  and services that the business  could  provide. (Mr B denies that he received  
the Client Agreement). 
On page 3 of this document it clearly sets out under the heading Arranging and Setting Up 
your Investment  Lump Sum Investments or Transfers  that the business will charge 3% of 
the amount invested or transferred. On a sum of £680,000 this would equate to about 
£20,000. It also sets out that Celandine can charge for its services using hourly rates.
Mr B states that during  the meeting he twice offered to pay the business an initial  fee and an 
hourly rate that varied depending on the seniority of the staff member.  Mr B states  that his 
suggestion that he pay an hourly rate was met with silence.
The notes produced by the business  after the initial meeting record  that at the time of the 
meeting Mr B had not received a TVAS report from Company A on the ETV that was on offer 
and he had received no recommendations as to what to do with the value of his deferred 
pension benefits.
Celandines file note also records that diversification of assets was discussed  as was the 
role of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).  No details are recorded on 
the brief note of what was discussed  with regards  to the role of the FSCS.
The business sent an email to Mr B after the meeting stating the he should really  have a 
Transfer Value  Analysis  (TVAS)  report before taking any decision on whether to transfer or 
not. It noted that Mr B had a preference for an arrangement  which is fully insured and 
covered up to 100% by the FSCS.  It offered to arrange a meeting with their pension  transfer  
Ref: DRN61135212specialist but noted that time was very short before the enhanced transfer value guarantee  
period was due to end.
In order to get full FSCS protection Mr B would  have needed  to transfer  to Provider X and 
then invest in 14 different  funds. The business considered that a non-sophisticated  investor 
would have found this very unattractive. Provider X also did not provide actively  managed 
portfolios. As a result  Celandine believed  that investing with Provider  Y would be beneficial 
for Mr B.  
On 18 May 2017 Mr B received the TVAS report from Company A and passed it on to 
Celandine. The report recommended  that he transfer to Provider X. This was just six days  
before the initial deadline  that had been set.
On 22 May 2017 an illustration provided for a new transfer plan with the Provider  Y indicated 
that a commission  of 3% would be payable to Celandine. Mr B considers that the illustration 
did not make  it significantly clear that the fee for the second transfer to Provider Y would be 
about £20,000.
As Mr B was unhappy  with the fees that he was going to be charged Celandine agreed to a 
revised proposal to reduce the fees it would charge initially to 2% of the transfer amount or 
about £13,609. A new illustration was produced on that basis  on 2 August 2017.
This was not agreed and further discussions took place between Mr B and the business after 
which it was finally agreed that the initial charge would  be 3% on the first £100,000 of the 
transfer value  and 1% on the balance. This represented a significant reduction in the 
charges that would be levied on the policy. 
On 7 August  2017 Mr B stated in an email to the business: 
Hi ..
Thank you for discussing the unfortunate misunderstanding around your Initial Advisor Fee and for  agreeing to 3%  of the first  £100,000 of my fund and 1% of the remainder.  I am 
entirely satisfied with this  compromise and believe that you are too, but if you  are not please 
feel free to discuss further
The fee now was about £8,600. 
On 9 August  2017 a new illustration was produced  by Provider Y showing the projected 
benefits under a new Personal Pension  Plan assuming that a fee was deducted and paid of 
£8,600.
On 18 August 2017 following the completion of the OPS transfer  to Provider  X Mr Bs funds 
were then transferred  into an arrangement with Provider Y.
In October  2017 Mr B reminded Celandine that it had agreed to provide a revised  illustration 
on exactly the same basis as he had received earlier but with the lower charges. 
It was only on 2 November 2017 that the business  stated  that it was not possible to produce 
the revised illustration  that Mr B had requested.
 
Ref: DRN61135213On 13 November 2017 the business wrote to Mr B setting out the reasons why it had 
recommended the transfer that it had. This letter set out the fee that had been agreed. 
On 14 November 2017 there was a meeting with Mr B at which there  were  clearly 
disagreements and arguments about the role and skills of the adviser and the fees that were 
being charged. The disagreements were so strong that on 14 November 2017 Celandine 
decided that it wanted to terminate its relationship  with Mr B.
Celandine made an offer to put Mr B into the position that he would have been in had the 
transfer to Provider  Y never taken place.
The business noted that Mr B had transferred £680,423.27 and that on 10 November 2017 
this had been worth £677,299.66.  The business  agreed to make good  the reduction  of 
£3,123.61 if Mr B agreed to accept their offer within the next seven days.
Mr B did not accept the offer and wanted  the full fee that he had been  charged of £8,600 
refunded. The complaint  was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it 
was looked at by an adjudicator.
The adjudicator did not uphold the complaint because in his view the charges that Mr B had 
paid were those that he had agreed. The adjudicator  did feel the suitability report  should 
have been provided to Mr B sooner than it was, but he noted that Mr B wasnt  complaining 
about the advice he received or the time that it had taken to produce  the report. Mr B was 
just complaining about the charges associated with the advice.
The adjudicator then considered Mr Bs complaint that Celandine had misrepresented itself 
as having the correct  pension transfer permissions. Celandine had provided  email evidence 
which showed that Mr B had been  informed of the need for his case to be referred  to its 
pension transfer  specialist should  he decide not to proceed to transfer on the advice from his 
existing adviser. This was required because the regulator requires that when looking at a 
pension transfer  from an OPS arrangement a pension transfer specialist is used to provide 
the advice. Mr B was warned that he would incur higher  charges  if he used Celandines 
specialist.
Mr B did not accept the adjudicators view and asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
I then looked at the complaint and concluded in my provisional decision that the advice to 
transfer from Provider X to Provider  Y with the associated costs  was unnecessary and I 
proposed a method of determining redress. I did not uphold the rest of the complaint.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision stating that he was pleased that the complaint 
was being upheld. However he wanted  my final decision to cover  both the advice that he had 
received and the actions of the adjudicator  and the business.
Mr B did set out that he had had a poor experience of dealing  with Provider X in the past but 
that he felt that had he been advised  properly  he would  have  remained  with Provider X and 
not transferred  away incurring the significant  extra  costs that he did.
Celandine responded in detail on 23 July 2019  disagreeing  with the provisional decision. It 
stated it was surprised  at the conclusion that I had reached  as the issue  of the suitability of 
the advice to transfer had not been  previously raised in the complaint process.
Ref: DRN61135214It argued that Provider X offered only funds that it managed. It did offer a wider range of 
funds via a platform  arrangement  but these would not be covered for 100% in the event that 
Provider X failed and then was covered by the FSCS. The new plan proposed by the 
business with Provider  Y would cover the funds invested up to 100%.
Celandine stated  that Mr B was keen to transfer  directly to Provider Y but this was not 
possible and the only way to invest in Provider  Y was to transfer first to Provider X and 
invest in cash and then transfer subsequently to Provider Y. In this situation there was no 
need to get a further TVAS report from a pension specialist.
Celandine stated  that Provider X had only 14 funds to choose  from whilst Provider Y allowed 
investment in many more  funds using many more  investment companies. As a result  the 
transfer value  could be spread over a wider  range of funds  to produce a portfolio  that was 
within Mr Bs agreed level of risk.
Celandine has also argued that as Company  A was advising hundreds  of employees on 
what to do and where to invest their funds as part of the Enhanced Transfer  Value exercise  it 
was unable to tailor make portfolios to closely match Mr Bs individual  circumstances.
I stated that if Mr B had been told that the risks that Provider X would fail were  tiny and that it 
is one of the largest and strongest pension providers in the United Kingdom I think its likely 
that he would have realised that there  was no need  to transfer from Provider  X to Provider Y.
Celandine believed  that given this new evidence that I should reconsider the decision that I 
had reached in my provisional decision to refund the initial  fee that Mr B had had deducted 
from his pension plan.
findings
  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
An ombudsman at the Financial Ombudsman Service  has to operate  under the rules set out 
in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the regulators handbook.
DISP rule 3.6.4 states
6In considering what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
Ref: DRN61135215(2) (where appropriate) what he considers  to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
It is important  also to realise that it is for the ombudsman  to issue decisions on complaints in 
line with the rules set down in the regulators handbook.
An ombudsman can only look at individual complaints  on the facts of the particular case. The 
ombudsman is unable  to review the processes and actions of a business more  generally. 
This is the role of the regulator - The Financial Conduct Authority. 
The complaint here is not about  the advice to transfer out of the OPS to Provider  X as that 
advice was given  by another business  (Company  A) but both the charges that were  levied by 
Celandine on the subsequent transfer from Provider  X to Provider Y and the fact that 
Celandine stated  that it was able to advise on pension transfers. Mr B thinks that this is 
untrue.
 
It is a regulatory requirement for a client to be given  a Terms of Business statement at the 
first meeting.  This sets out broadly what  business will do and at what cost. The statement 
from the business shows that it will normally charge commission of 3% on single premium  
investments.
Mr B states that he was not given such a statement when  the first met Celandine. It was only 
given to him later. It is of course a fact that the fees set out might be reduced following 
negotiation between the parties and it does seem  that early on the business  reduced the 
commission it would take from 3% to 2%. It then subsequently  reduced  it again following 
further discussions.
I note that Mr B is unhappy that he could not pay an hourly rate for the work done  but it is 
likely that this option would probably  not have been  acceptable to the business.  The 
business would need to cover its expenses and would need  to pay for its Professional 
Indemnity Insurance cover from the income  that it receives. Unfortunately  with very large 
transfer cases, such as in this case, the premiums required by the insurer to cover any future  
claims of misselling would be significant. 
I can see that Mr B was still unhappy  with the proposed  fee that had been reduced to 2% 
and it was reduced further by the business  to be 3% on the first £100,000 and 1% on the 
rest. This was accepted  by Mr B in his email  on 7 August 2017 that I have  set out above. 
The new fee was about £8,600.
I note now that Mr B states  that he was under duress when he agreed  to the lower fees. 
However, I have seen no evidence that this was the case. 
In November 2017 it is clear that there  were  very strong disagreements in the meeting and 
the relationship  between  the parties broke  down. Unfortunately  these events do happen.
Finally I note that if Mr B was unhappy with the fees that were  going to be charged by 
Celandine he always had the right to go and find a firm of advisers who would advise  him for 
less than the fee proposed by Celandine.  
I therefore do not uphold this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN61135216I have then considered  the argument  that has been put forward by Mr B that he was told that 
the business had the required  permissions to transact pension transfers.
Celandine can arrange pension transfers but the regulator now sets down that when 
advising on pension transfers
COBS 19.1.1
(1) 7A firm must ensure  that advice  on pension transfers, pension conversions and pension 
opt-outs is given or checked by a pension transfer specialist.
The business explained  to Mr B that if he wished to receive independent advice from it on 
the transfer from the former OPS  to the PPP that was being  arranged by another  business 
(Company A) that it would have to go and get expert advice from its pension  transfer 
specialist. This is a requirement  of the regulator. The business stated it could arrange for the 
specialist to review the case and then provide advice  but this would cost Mr B additional fees 
and would take time.
Mr B did not use Celandine to advise him on whether  to transfer out of the OPS  or not this 
came from Company A which had been  appointed by (and was being paid for) by his former 
employer.
Celandine only advised Mr B on the subsequent  transfer of his PPP transfer policy  to a new 
provider. This was the issue  that I had considered in my provisional decision should  be 
upheld because I stated  that there was no strong reason why Mr B needed to transfer from 
Provider X to Provider Y.
In my provisional decision I stated that the concerns raised that Provider X would fail had 
been overstated and that if this exaggeration  had not happened  Mr B would  have remained 
in a policy with Provider  X. I therefore proposed that the complaint be upheld  but in part only 
and I set out a method of determining redress.
I consider that there was a sufficiently wide spread of funds that Mr B could  select from to 
invest in with Provider X and he would therefore  not have incurred the fees of £8,600 that he 
did.
As the initial  charge was deducted from the policy in my opinion  the redress  should be paid 
back into the policy. However as it is unlikely that Celandine will be able to pay the redress  
to the pension policy I direct that the sum be paid to Mr B as a lump sum.
However, if the redress had been  paid into the pension plan for Mr B only 25% would be 
able to provide  a tax free lump sum. The remaining  75% would be used to provide an 
income that would be subject to income tax at Mr Bs highest rate in retirement. I have 
assumed that this will be 20% so that an overall  tax rate of 15% should be applied.  
This means  that the sum due to Mr B is £7,310. (i.e. £8,600*0.85) together  with interest at 
the rate of 8% per annum  simple from the date that the fee was deducted from Mr Bs 
pension arrangement to the date of settlement.
final decision
Ref: DRN61135217I uphold this complaint against Celandine Limited.
I direct that Celandine Limited pay the sum of £7,310  to Mr B together with interest at 
the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date that the fee was deducted from Mr Bs 
pension arrangement to the date of settlement.
.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  23 November 2019. 
Adrian Hudson
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6113521