K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) gave her an 
unaffordable hire purchase agreement. 
Miss H is represented by her solicitor,  but for ease Ill refer to Miss H throughout. 
background
In August  2017,  Miss H visited a car dealership with her ex-partner. She says her ex-partner 
was looking to acquire a new car and had asked her to take out a finance agreement  in her 
name for it. She says that this was discussed  with the dealership,  who agreed that after one 
month the agreement could be transferred  from Miss Hs name to her ex-partner. 
The finance  was approved and Miss H says she continued to make the monthly  repayments  
each month  and her ex-partner reimbursed her for those payments. As this arrangement  
was working, she says they didnt approach the dealership to have the finance agreement 
put into her ex-partners name. When Miss H and her ex-partner split up in May 2018,  she 
says her ex-partner  stopped paying  her for the car. She says the car has been off the road 
since June 2018,  she hasnt driven it and has had to get loans from her family  to avoid 
missing any repayments. 
Miss H says she should never have been given  the finance in her sole name as she couldnt 
afford it. The agreement  was for a brand new car with a cash price of around  £70,000.  It was 
for 49 months with monthly repayments  of around  £920 and a final repayment  of around 
£29,600. Miss Hs ex-partner had paid a deposit of £971 and there  was a dealer contribution 
of £5,000. 
In summary,  she says:
She told the dealership her monthly  salary was around £1,300  and had concerns 
about being able to afford it. She says she told them she was only on a fixed-term  
contract which was due to end shortly.  
She offered  to show  the sales person bank statements but they werent interested. 
She couldnt see what had been entered on the computer screen  concerning her 
personal circumstances. Shes  since found  out most of the information that was 
entered was either  incorrect or misleading.  
She was given a copy of the agreement and shown where to sign it, there  was no 
explanation given as to the key features of the finance. 
The sales person  at the dealership  appears to have had some  personal connection 
with her ex-partner  and the application appears  to have been deliberately 
manipulated in order  for the finance to be approved.  
Miss H sought legal advice and complained to BMWFS.  To resolve  things she wanted to 
return the car without  charge, end the finance  agreement and have  all payments shed made  
refunded to her (those which her ex-partner hadnt reimbursed her for). She also wanted her 
legal fees of around £5,500 refunded. 
 
BMWFS didnt think it had done anything wrong.  It said there  was no evidence  to support 
what Miss H had said and shed failed to raise  any issues until around 14 months after the 
agreement started. It said shed signed the agreement and had therefore agreed to be 
bound by its terms. 
Ref: DRN62665982Miss H sought ways of limiting her liability under the agreement while she continued to 
pursue her complaint. She asked BMWFS about the possibility of voluntary termination. It 
appears BMWFS  offered several  termination settlement figures over a period of time. Miss H 
requested if she could arrange  a repayment plan for the termination figure as she could  not 
afford to pay it one go. Miss H says BMWFS didnt respond to these requests. 
I understand Miss H returned the car to BMWFS in May 2019  and shed maintained  the 
monthly repayments until April 2019. However,  no further payments have been made 
towards the agreement  since.  
I sent Miss H and BMWFS my provisional decision on 3 July 2020.  I set out the relevant  
legal and regulatory framework that applied and I explained why I thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  The framework and my provisional findings setting out my reasoning  for 
upholding the complaint  are attached and forms part of this final decision.  
BMWFS didnt respond to my provisional decision.  Miss H accepted the provisional decision 
but asked me to consider  some additional  losses. She says that when entering into the 
finance agreement  she was persuaded by the dealership to take out additional linked 
insurance policies  which included GAP insurance,  cover for cosmetic  repairs  and cover for 
wheels and tyres. Miss H says her ex-partner paid these insurance  premiums until May 2018 
at which  point she was required  to make the payments. She has paid £661.56 towards these 
policies. Miss H isnt seeking  reimbursement of the insurance costs but has asked that these 
policies also be cancelled and removed  from her credit file. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As BMWFS hasnt  responded, Ive seen 
no reason to change  the outcome I reached  in my provisional decision. Ive thought about 
the additional losses Miss H has asked me to consider, but these arent  something I have 
the power to award under this specific complaint. Ill explain why. 
What Miss H is asking for is the cancellation of these policies and removal  of them  from her 
credit file. The policies  are administered by a separate legal entity not party to this complaint. 
BMWFS dont have any control  over the cancellation  or inception of those policies so 
I couldnt reasonably  direct it to do something  which was impossible for it carry out. Miss H 
can approach the insurers  directly  to see if she can cancel  the policies early and whether 
she is entitled to any partial refund. As they are insurance policies, its unlikely they will be 
recorded on her credit  file.  
Ref: DRN62665983my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  to:
End the finance  agreement with nothing further  to pay. 
Refund £8,185 representing  what Miss H has paid towards the agreement.
Remove the agreement entirely  from Miss Hs credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October  2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62665984the regulatory and legal framework
BMWFS lent to Miss H while it was authorised  and regulated by the Financial Conduct  
Authority (FCA). 
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The most relevant principles here
are PRIN 2.1.1R(6) which says: A firm must  pay due regard to the interests  of its customers 
and treat them fairly; and PRIN 2.1.1R(7) which says: A firm must pay due regard to the 
information needs of its clients, and communicate  information to them in a way which  is 
clear, fair and not misleading.
The Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules which apply to providers of 
consumer credit like BMWFS.  Its clear there is a high degree  of alignment between  the 
Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) Irresponsible Lending  Guidance (ILG) and the rules  set out in 
CONC. As is evident from the following extracts,  the FCAs  CONC  rules specifically note and 
refer to sections of the OFTs ILG on many occasions.
CONC 4 sets out a firms obligations  around  pre-contract disclosure  and adequate 
explanations. 
CONC 4.2.5R(1) says:  Before making a regulated  credit agreement  the firm must: (a) 
provide the customer  with an adequate  explanation of the matters referred to in (2) in order  
to place the customer in a position  to assess whether  the agreement  is adapted  to the 
customers needs and financial  situation.
CONC 4.2.5R(2) includes: (a) the features of the agreement which may make  the credit  to 
be provided under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use; (b) how much  the 
customer will have  to pay periodically  and, where the amount can be determined, in total 
under the agreement;  (c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner 
which would have a significant adverse effect on the customer  in a way which  the customer  
is unlikely to foresee.  
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. These rules were  
updated in November 2018,  but I refer below to the rules as they were at the time BMWFS 
lent to Miss H in August  2017. 
CONC 5.2.1R(2) sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer a 
loan of this type.  It says a firm must  consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information  of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
Ref: DRN62665985[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  the proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.3G  says:  
The extent  and scope  of the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case,  should  be dependent  upon and proportionate to factors 
which may include one or more of the following: (1) the type of credit ; (2) the amount of the 
credit; (3) the cost of the credit; (4) the financial position of the customer at the time of 
seeking the credit; (5) the customers credit history, including any indications  that the 
customer is experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties; (6) the customers existing 
financial commitments  including any repayments  due in respect of other credit agreements, 
consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage  contracts, payments for rent, council tax, 
electricity, gas, telecommunications, water and other major outgoings known to the firm; (7) 
any future financial commitments of the customer; (8) any future  changes  in circumstances 
which could be reasonably expected to have a significant financial adverse impact  on the 
customer; (9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental  capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this to be so 
because the customer  displays indications of some  form of mental capacity limitation  (see 
CONC 2.10). 
[Note: paragraph 4.10 of ILG]
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:  A firm should  consider what is appropriate in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being sought and 
the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to 
the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers 
financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says: In making the creditworthiness  assessment or the 
assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more  than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says: The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say: For the purposes of CONC sustainable  means  the 
repayments under the regulated credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end
Ref: DRN62665986agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
 unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states: (a) it is not generally  sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a 
regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful  in completing  the application in relation to information 
supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R  (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC also provides guidance  to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, 
making reference to the Office of Fair Tradings  Debt Collection Guidance  (DCG).
CONC 6.7.2R requires  firms to monitor account  use. It says:  7A firm must monitor a 
customers repayment record  and take appropriate  action  where  there are signs of actual or 
possible repayment difficulties.
CONC 7.3.2G says:  When dealing with customers in default  or in arrears  difficulties  
a firm should pay due regard to its obligations  under  Principle 6 (Customers interests) to 
treat its customers fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R says that: A firm must treat customers in default  or in arrears  difficulties  with 
forbearance and due consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 2.5 sets out rules  and guidance for the conduct of business  for credit broking. Again 
there is an alignment between the Office of Fair Tradings Credit  Brokers and Intermediaries 
Guidance (CBG), as well as the ILG and the rules  set out in CONC 2.5, and again  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority rules refer back to sections of the OFTs  guidance.
CONC 2.5.3R says:   A firm must: 
(1) where it has responsibility for doing so, explain  the key features of a regulated 
credit agreement to enable the customer  to make an informed choice as required by 
CONC 4.2.5 R;
[Note: paragraphs 4.27 to 4.30 of CBG  and 2.2 of ILG]
(2) take reasonable steps to satisfy  itself that a product it wishes to recommend 
to a customer is not unsuitable for the customers needs and circumstances;
Ref: DRN62665987[Note: paragraph 4.22 of CBG]
(3) advise a customer to read,  and allow  the customer  sufficient  opportunity to 
consider, the terms and conditions of a credit  agreement  or consumer hire 
agreement before entering  into it; 
[Note: paragraph 3.9l of CBG]
CONC 2.5.8R says a firm must not:

(10) effect an introduction to a lender or an owner or to another  credit broker, 
where the firm has considered whether  the customer  might meet  the relevant lending  
or hiring  criteria and it is or should  be apparent to the firm that the customer  does not 
meet those criteria;
[Note: paragraph 3.9aa and 4.41i of CBG]
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) is an act established for the protection of consumers 
and the control  of traders of the provision  of credit. S56 of the Act provides as follows:
56 Antecedent negotiations 
(1)  In this Act antecedent negotiations means  any negotiations with the debtor or 
hirer
(a)  conducted by the creditor  or owner  in relation  to the making of any regulated 
agreement, or
(b)  conducted by a credit-broker in relation to goods  sold or proposed to be sold by 
the credit-broker  to the creditor  before forming the subject-matter of a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement within section  12(a), or
(c)  conducted by the supplier in relation  to a transaction financed or proposed  to be 
financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement within  section 12(b)  or (c),
and negotiator  means the person by whom negotiations  are so conducted with the 
debtor or hirer.
(2)  Negotiations with the debtor in a case falling within subsection (1)(b) or (c) shall 
be deemed to be conducted  by the negotiator in the capacity of agent  of the creditor 
as well as in his actual capacity.
(3)  An agreement is void if, and to the extent that, it purports in relation to an actual 
or prospective regulated agreement
(a)  to provide that a person acting as, or on behalf of, a negotiator  is to be treated as 
the agent of the debtor  or hirer, or
(b)  to relieve a person from liability for acts or omissions of any person acting as, or 
on behalf of, a negotiator.
(4)  For the purposes of this Act, antecedent negotiations shall be taken to begin  
when the negotiator and the debtor or hirer first enter into communication (including 
communication by advertisement), and to include any representations made by the 
negotiator to the debtor or hirer and any other dealings  between them.
Ref: DRN62665988So one of the purposes of Section 56 CCA  is to deem credit-brokers and suppliers to be the 
agent of the creditor when  conducting  antecedent negotiations with a debtor in relation to 
goods and services purchased with finance  under  debtor-creditor-supplier agreements. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Im required to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules and guidance and standards,  codes 
of practice and where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at 
the time.  
I think there are two overarching questions  I need to consider in order to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
Did BMWFS complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
Miss H would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Miss H 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
Did BMWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Miss H has been disadvantaged in any way by BMWFSs actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Did BMWFS complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Miss H 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
CONC sets out that BMWFS was required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Hs ability to sustainably repay  the borrowing. This is often known as an 
affordability check. CONC doesnt prescribe a set list of things lenders are required to check  
each time.  But any check  it carries  out ought to be borrower-focused, meaning  that rather  
than thinking about how statistically likely Miss H was to repay the borrowing, it needed  to 
take her specific circumstances into account  to understand whether she could afford it. 
Any checks  it did had to be proportionate  to the situation. Whats considered proportionate 
will vary depending  on, but isnt limited to:
The size of the borrowing;
The total repayable and the cost of the borrowing;
The size of the regular repayments; and
The consumers financial and other circumstances.
The hire purchase agreement Miss H entered into was for a little over four years  for around 
£64,600 with a total repayable of almost £80,000.  The monthly repayments were around 
£920 and had an APR of 4.9%. I think this would  be a significant commitment for many  
people, my starting point  therefore is that BMWFS ought to have completed thorough 
affordability checks before agreeing to lend.  Having reviewed what information BMWFS and 
Miss H have provided about the affordability checks carried out, I have a number of 
significant concerns.  
The details listed on the application form for income state not supplied and BMWFS has 
confirmed it didnt request  any documentation  from Miss H apart  from her proof  of address. 
Ref: DRN62665989So it decided to lend a vast sum of money, with significant monthly repayments without 
appearing to know anything  about  what Miss Hs income was, all it knew was that she was 
employed. This means  it couldnt  have known  whether Miss H was able to sustainably repay 
borrowing over the four year term. 
Its also unclear exactly what information it received back  from the credit  reference agency. 
Miss H says she had never  taken  out credit  prior to this agreement  and that is broadly 
supported by the copies of her credit  file shes provided to our service  (it appears she may 
have had a telecommunications agreement). While that means BMWFS wouldnt have 
received any data to suggest she had previously failed to pay credit, it also wouldnt have 
shown she had successfully repaid  any credit  either.  Given the size of the borrowing and the 
overall lack of information BMWFS had, I think this ought to have prompted some further 
questioning. 
I say this because  of the significant size of the borrowing it was proposing to provide. The 
monthly repayments were  not far off from being £1,000  per month.  BMWFS says it was 
lending to Miss H on the understanding  she would be the registered keeper and driver of the 
car (Miss  H disputes this, and Ill deal with this separately later in the decision). On that basis  
BMWFS ought  to have also considered the ongoing costs Miss H was likely to have when 
considering whether the agreement was affordable  and sustainable.  Taking into account the 
make and model of the car, it was likely Miss Hs insurance costs, road tax, fuel and general 
maintenance costs  were  likely to be quite significant. Ive not seen anything to indicate 
BMWFS took this into account, or indeed any non-motoring expenditure into account. 
BMWFS says the application and information  it received didnt raise any concerns  around 
affordability. But there appears to have  been  a remarkable lack of information  to rely on 
because of how little BMWFS gathered. So while Im not surprised BMWFS didnt see any 
concerns from such a lack of data, that lack of data in itself ought to have raised a concern 
with BMWFS prior to agreeing to lend. And Im not persuaded  that there was anything  in this 
information that demonstrated Miss H would be able to maintain payments of almost £1,000 
for over four years.
Overall it seems BMWFS  had little to no understanding of Miss Hs financial circumstances 
before it agreed  to lend to her. Given the size, duration,  overall  cost of borrowing and the 
limited personal circumstances BMWFS was aware of, there  is an argument for saying that 
proceeding with this application on this basis was clearly irresponsible.  In any event, Im 
satisfied that there simply wasnt enough  to be able to reasonably  conclude  Miss H was able 
to meet  the commitment she was signing up to. For these reasons Im also satisfied BMWFS 
didnt carry out reasonable  and proportionate  checks before agreeing to lend to Miss H. Ive 
therefore gone on to consider what proportionate and reasonable checks  would  likely  have  
revealed. 
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Miss H could sustainably  
repay the borrowing?
I consider it would have  been reasonable to find out more information about  Miss Hs income 
and expenditure.  And given the size of the borrowing and the regular repayments,  I think 
BMWFS ought  to have also looked to verify at least some of that information, rather than 
relying solely on self-declared figures. 
I cant be certain exactly what  evidence or information BMWFS  would have requested and 
reviewed. However,  Ive seen copies of Miss Hs bank statements in the months leading up 
Ref: DRN626659810to the lending decision. In the absence of anything else, I think this is a reasonable indicator 
of what information  BMWFS would  have likely found out about her income and expenditure 
had reasonable and proportionate checks been  carried out. 
I can see Miss H was earning around  £1,380  per month. This meant a little over two thirds of 
her salary  would be going towards repaying  this one large  financial commitment  and would  
leave her very little each  month towards her essential living  costs.  Miss H says she was 
living at a friends house at the time of the application, although the application lists her 
residential status as other. In any event, Ive not seen any evidence  of regular commitments 
she had towards rent or household bills. However, she did appear to have other essential 
commitments which her income had to support. These included:
An insurance policy for around  £22 per month;
Two telecommunications contracts for around £41 per month (combined);
A regular  direct  debit  for what appears to be private medical cover for around £50 per 
month. 
Ongoing maintenance for another car in the form of DVLA tax payments and fuel. 
The fuel costs appear to be around £50 per month.  
Taking these into account,  Miss H would have been left with less than £350 per month in 
disposable income. However, if the new car was for her use, which BMWFS  says it assumed 
it was (and the terms of the agreement said it had to be hers), then that £350 needed to also 
cover her new car insurance, tax, maintenance and fuel. Given  the type of car that was 
financed, its likely  the ongoing  running  and maintenance  costs  for the car would have used 
up the majority,  if not all or more, of that available income. This wouldnt  have  left Miss H 
with anything  or at least very little  towards other essential day to day expenses  like food 
and clothing. 
Taking everything into account,  I think had BMWFS done more to establish Miss Hs 
financial circumstances, I dont think it would  have lent to her as it clearly wasnt affordable  
to her. 
Did BMWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss H says the dealership was aware  the car wasnt for her. She says her ex-partner was 
the one using the car and had convinced her to take out the finance for him. She says the 
salesperson at the dealership appears  to have had a personal relationship with her ex-
partner and that they knowingly falsified  information  or at least  misled BMWFS  into 
accepting her application without her knowledge.  
The agreement was sold by the dealership on behalf  of BMWFS. One of the effects of 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  is that any representations made  by the credit 
broker (in this case the dealership) are made  in their capacity as agent of the finance 
provider (BMWFS). This means  BMWFS can be held responsible  for the actions of the 
dealership when it brokered the finance agreement  for Miss H.
I cant be certain exactly what  was discussed  or whether Miss Hs ex-partner  did have a 
personal relationship  with the salesperson. However, Miss H has been consistent throughout 
in what shes said has happened and Ive found  her account of events to be both credible 
and plausible. This is also because there are a few things that appear to support what  she 
says happened. 
Ref: DRN626659811Ive seen the application screenshots the salesperson filled in. As previously mentioned  it 
lists income as not supplied, but it also has a checkbox filled in which says household 
override. Its not clear  what  this checkbox was for, but it appears to have the effect of 
ignoring the lack of income information,  possibly because the broker  has taken household 
income into account. I say this because BMWFS has said its affordability checks  came back  
with no concerns, despite knowing  nothing  about Miss Hs income.  
Its possible the salesperson was aware  of this and used it in order  to get the finance 
approved. This means its more likely the salesperson  was aware  of the arrangements  
Miss H and her ex-partner had in relation to the payments and use of the car. 
Ive considered that Miss H wasnt actually going to be paying some   or possibly any  of 
the costs associated with the car. Her ex-partner was making these payments as it appears  
the car was taken  out for his use. However, BMWFS says it wasnt  aware of this 
arrangement. This means had it done  reasonable and proportionate  checks it would have 
likely led it to two possible conclusions:
1.As set out above, that Miss H couldnt  sustainably afford  to repay the borrowing 
and therefore  it wouldnt or shouldnt have  granted her the credit. 
2.Further questioning  would have revealed who was actually going to be paying for 
the car and who the car was for. In those circumstances I think BMWFS ought to 
have considered how sustainable it was for Miss Hs ex-partner too, or more  than 
likely insist that he be party to the agreement given the car was for his use. It 
seems her ex-partner  was unlikely to be able to sustainably  repay  credit  given 
that he himself appears to have been  of the view he wouldnt get approved  for 
finance. So I think its more likely  than not BMWFS wouldnt have proceeded with 
the finance even if it was aware of Miss H and her ex-partners arrangement. 
For these reasons I think had BMWFS carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, it 
wouldnt have lent to Miss H. 
BMWFS appears  to have suggested that Miss H provided inaccurate information at the point 
of application.  But Im not persuaded that she did. Had she for example exaggerated  what 
her income was, I would  have expected  that income  figure to be recorded on the application. 
It seems  to me its therefore more likely the salesperson either didnt ask or that they knew 
her income wasnt sufficient to get approved for finance. 
Ive taken into account that Miss H has knowingly taken out an agreement  for someone else, 
which is a breach of the agreement terms. However, Im satisfied that she wasnt  aware  of 
the implications of her doing so and only entered into the agreement on this basis as she 
genuinely believed  it was ok for her to do so. She says the dealership was aware of the 
arrangement between her and her partner. Based on everything Ive seen,  Im persuaded, 
on balance, that the dealership was likely to have been aware of the arrangement.  By 
allowing Miss H to take out the agreement knowing that it would breach the terms, I think  it 
acted unfairly. 
But even if Im wrong and the dealership didnt know, BMWFS  ought to have found this out 
anyway had it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks  on Miss Hs ability  to 
sustainably repay  the borrowing or at least conclude she couldnt afford the borrowing. While 
Miss Hs actions might be considered nave (although I think she acted reasonably  given Im 
persuaded BMWFS agent didnt indicate the agreement couldnt be operated in this way), I 
dont think she intended to deceive  BMWFS.  Had BMWFS done  what  it was required to do, 
Ref: DRN626659812Miss H wouldnt  now be in the position  she is in, and it is therefore BMWFS and/or its 
agents actions  that have  mainly contributed to the detriment Miss H has suffered. 
For the reasons  Ive already set out, I think its more  likely than not that BMWFS  agent  didnt 
adequately explain  the key information  about the agreement or ensure that the agreement 
was suitable for Miss Hs needs. Im also satisfied that adequate information wasnt  gathered  
to properly and reasonably assess whether Miss H could sustainably afford the borrowing. 
Ive also considered how BMWFS responded when Miss H attempted  to return  the car. Ive 
seen she contacted BMWFS a number of times about ending the agreement and BMWFS 
did provide settlement quotes and termination figures. When Miss H opted for voluntary 
termination in 2019 the termination figure was around £15,500. As she couldnt afford to pay 
that, she asked  BMWFS  to consider a repayment plan. I can see BMWFS  did say a payment 
plan would be considered once the termination had been completed.  However, it appears 
Miss H didnt wish to discuss this further as she had then raised her complaint with our 
service. It seems  she wanted to await the outcome of this complaint before paying anything  
more to BMWFS. I dont therefore  think BMWFS  has acted unfairly in relation to the 
termination of the agreement. 
Putting things right
Its unclear what use, if any, Miss H has had of the car as it appears it was her ex-partner 
that was using it. And it seems Miss H already had a car at the time based on the spending 
on her bank statements. Shes told us she hasnt driven  the car and Im persuaded thats 
likely to be the case given  the specific circumstances here. 
Miss H has now handed  the car back to BMWFS under voluntary termination with a balance  
still outstanding.  As Im satisfied Miss H should never have been given the agreement,  my 
starting point is that she should be put back in the position she would have been in had the 
agreement never been  entered into. I therefore think the finance agreement  should be 
ended with nothing  further to pay. Ordinarily, I may have  also directed a refund of all 
payments that had been made (including any deposit),  minus  a deduction for any use of the 
car. However, doing so here I dont think would result in a fair outcome.
This is because it seems Miss H wasnt  the one using the car, nor has she lost out financially 
for some of the payments  (including the deposit) as her ex-partner  either  paid it directly or 
had reimbursed her. But Miss H says shes paid out in total £8,185 towards the monthly 
repayments herself, albeit  by taking loans from her parents.  It also seems the car wasnt 
driven from June 2018 so the payments she made  were  while  the car wasnt in use. 
There isnt an exact formula  for working  out what proportion of the monthly repayments 
BMWFS should be entitled  to keep for use of the car. Taking into consideration that the car 
wasnt driven from June 2018  when Miss H stopped receiving  reimbursement from her ex-
partner, I think its reasonable that any repayments she made from then should be refunded  
to her. Generally, I would look to award  8% simple  interest for any money  that was paid out 
when it shouldnt have  been. This is to compensate the consumer for not having access to 
that money and being deprived of the opportunity of using it elsewhere. However, in the 
specific circumstances of this case, the money  Miss H paid was borrowed from her parents, 
it wasnt money she ordinarily would have  had access to and she has therefore not lost out 
on using it elsewhere.  For that reason, I dont propose to award any interest on the refund. 
Ref: DRN626659813As Miss H didnt pay the deposit or incur a loss with the other  payments,  I dont  think  it would 
be fair to refund  her those. BMWFS can therefore  retain everything  else paid under the 
agreement. 
Ive noted that the mileage of the car was higher than expected  and this will have caused 
slightly greater depreciation. But as Im not proposing  to refund the deposit or a proportion  of 
the first eight monthly repayments, I think this will more than adequately cover  any loss 
incurred by BMWFS from the additional  mileage. And in any event, it wasnt  Miss H that 
drove the car, so it wouldnt be fair to say she should cover  the costs  of any depreciation that 
might have occurred. 
As I dont think the agreement should have been entered into, I dont think  it would be fair or 
accurate to record the voluntary termination and any subsequent  adverse information on 
Miss Hs credit file. However, recording  the agreement as satisfied isnt appropriate in this 
case either. This is because it will give a potentially misleading impression to future lenders 
that Miss H is able to adequately service an agreement of this size. I therefore  think  the 
agreement should  be removed from Miss Hs credit  file entirely.  
Lastly, Miss H wants BMWFS to reimburse her legal costs of around £5,000. Having  thought 
about this carefully  I dont  think  that would be fair. This is because  Miss H didnt necessarily 
need to seek legal  advice or representation,  she could have raised  her complaint without it 
both to BMWFS  and to our service. From  everything Ive seen, BMWFS didnt initiate  any 
contact through  solicitors.  So I dont think BMWFS actions meant seeking legal 
representation was necessary or unavoidable.  
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im planning  to uphold the complaint and direct 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  to:
End the finance  agreement with nothing further  to pay. 
Refund £8,185 representing  what Miss H has paid towards the agreement.
Remove the agreement entirely  from Miss Hs credit file. 
Ref: DRN6266598