K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) attached to his mortgage in 2002.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Our adjudicator did not uphold  this complaint.
Mr K disagreed with these  findings, making  the following  points:-
Bank of Scotland has failed to provide him with any documentation  showing that he 
consented to take out the policy  in 2002,  or that he cancelled it in 2004.
Mr K has said that he only found out about the existence of the policy  when he rang 
to check the outstanding  mortgage balance in 2015.
Mr K denies that he attempted to make an unemployment claim under the policy  in 
2004. Bank of Scotland has stated  that the claim was declined because  Mr K had 
taken voluntary redundancy at this time.  However,  Mr K has said that he in fact was 
made compulsorily redundant.
In responding  to his complaint about  the PPI sale, Bank of Scotland has given Mr K 
inconsistent information, and has provided  a poor service.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
Mr K has stated  that he did not agree  to take out PPI. He has also asked that Bank of 
Scotland provide him with documentation  that demonstrates he agreed  to take the policy. 
Bank of Scotland has only been able to provide a limited amount of information  about the 
sale. However I dont consider this surprising, bearing in mind the sale took place a number 
of years ago.
Bank of Scotland has provided  a copy of the mortgage application form completed  in 2002. 
This shows that the mortgage itself was sold by an intermediary separate  from Bank of 
Scotland. On the mortgage application,  in answer  to a question  about whether PPI cover had 
been arranged,  it stated No. Bank of Scotland has provided internal screenshots  which it 
states show that the sale of the PPI was conducted over the telephone, and that it was 
Bank of Scotland (rather  than the intermediary) who sold PPI to Mr K.
Further to this, Bank of Scotland has stated  that in 2004, Mr K attempted to make an 
unemployment claim under the policy. It has provided internal records from 2004.  These  
show an unemployment claim being registered  at this time. There are also some notes 
Ref: DRN61577752recording that Mr K rang to ask some questions about his claim in 2004, and that in 
July 2004 Mr K requested that his PPI cover be cancelled.
In response to Bank of Scotlands comments that his unemployment claim was declined 
because he had taken  voluntary redundancy,  Mr K has said that this was in fact compulsory 
redundancy. If Mr K considers the claim itself was unfairly declined, he would need to 
address his comments directly to the insurer.
However, in relation to whether the policy was taken  out without Mr Ks consent, I have to 
decide what I consider  is most likely to have happened in 2002. I have carefully considered 
Mr Ks comments about the sale. However,  I am mindful that the policy  was arranged more  
than 16 years ago, in my view making  it more difficult to recall in detail the discussions which 
took place at this time.
Taking into account the limited information available from the sale, my view is that it is more  
likely than not that Mr K would have had to agree to take out PPI before the policy would 
have been arranged. As the PPI was sold by a different party  to the seller  of the mortgage 
(Bank of Scotland  rather than the intermediary), it seems to me that this increases the 
likelihood both that PPI was presented as an optional  product to the mortgage, and that Mr K 
did agree  to take it out. The evidence from 2004  in relation to the attempted  claim does  
indicate to me that at this time, Mr K was aware  that he had PPI.
Overall, my conclusion in relation to this aspect  of the complaint is that Mr K was offered PPI 
as an option, and that he chose to take it out.
Bank of Scotland accepts that it advised  Mr K to take out PPI. It therefore  had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable. It also had to give clear, fair and 
not misleading information  about  the PPI so that Mr K could make  a properly informed 
choice.
Having looked  at Mr Ks circumstances when the policy  was sold,  my view is that PPI was 
suitable for him for the following reasons:
Mr K has said that he was entitled  to 24 weeks full sick pay in his job, together  with 
redundancy pay. However, the PPI policy would have paid out an amount to help cover  
the mortgage repayments if disability  or unemployment occurred for a period of up to 
24 months per claim. Bearing in mind  the importance of maintaining mortgage 
repayments, my view is that PPI did provide a useful benefit to Mr K if he was unable  to 
work because of disability or unemployment.
It seems  that Mr K was eligible  for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the main things not covered by the policy that might  make  it unsuitable for him.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr K as much  
information as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy 
was suitable, my view is that better information  would not have put him off taking out the 
PPI. I appreciate that Mr K will be disappointed  with my findings.  However  my conclusion is 
that the policy was not mis-sold.
Ref: DRN61577753Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mr K paid for it. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr K back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont  
think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr K when Ive issued my final decision,  
assuming my findings have not altered from those detailed in this provisional decision.
Mr K has also highlighted the service he received from Bank of Scotland in relation to his 
complaint. Bank of Scotland  has accepted that conflicting information it provided caused 
confusion to Mr K. It has offered £50 for the inconvenience caused, plus £10 in relation to 
the cost of telephone calls. On balance I consider that this represents a fair sum to reflect 
the difficulties  Mr K has been caused.  I understand that Bank of Scotland  has already paid 
this to Mr K.
responses to my provisional  decision
Bank of Scotland did not respond to my provisional  decision.
Mr K confirmed that he was disappointed  with my findings, making the following points:-
He did not call to cancel his PPI policy in 2004. This is because  Mr K says that he did 
not know he had such a policy. He has asked for proof of any phone calls he made.
Mr K is unhappy about the lack of evidence  provided by Bank of Scotland,  and the 
accuracy of the information it has given him.
Mr K has highlighted that at one point whilst  investigating his complaint,  Bank  of 
Scotland told him that he had been  paid £960  for a claim made under the PPI policy.
He says he did not take voluntary  redundancy from his job, and that Bank of Scotland  
should contact  his former  employer  to establish the truth.
Mr K does  not agree that he took the policy  out over the phone.
Mr K does  not consider the £60 offer for inconvenience and telephone costs  
adequately compensates  him for the service  he has received from Bank of Scotland.  
He also states  that Bank of Scotland has not offered to give him back some of the 
cost of the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr K remains frustrated with the investigation of his PPI mis-selling 
complaint by Bank of Scotland. I agree with him that Bank of Scotland initially caused  
confusion regarding whether he had made a successful claim under the PPI policy. 
However, based on the evidence Bank  of Scotland has provided, I am satisfied that Mr K did 
not make  a successful claim  under the policy.
In terms of the events  that occurred when the policy started in 2002, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I do not consider it surprising that there is limited  evidence from this 
Ref: DRN61577754time, bearing  in mind  the years that have passed since  then.  The internal records  provided 
by Bank  of Scotland indicate on balance that the sale of PPI was made over the telephone. I 
would not necessarily expect evidence relating to a phone call that took place around 17 
years ago to be available now.
The PPI sale being made over the phone would seem to be consistent with the contents  of 
the mortgage application completed in 2002  by the intermediary who arranged  the mortgage  
for Mr K. That form stated that Bank  of Scotland would  contact  the applicant  about PPI cover 
to provide no obligation quotes,  unless such insurance had already been  arranged. I 
consider its reasonable to think that this contact might take place over the phone. And 
overall, my view remains that it is more likely than not that Mr K would have  agreed  to take 
out the PPI policy  during this phone  call.
Bank of Scotlands internal records do show an unemployment claim being registered  under 
the policy in 2004, and detail contact from Mr K about this. Mr Ks request to cancel the 
policy in 2004  is also recorded. With regard to Mr Ks comments  that he did not take 
voluntary redundancy at this time, as I explained in my provisional  decision, he will need to 
contact the PPI insurer if he considers that his claim in 2004 should have been paid.
My view remains that the £60 offer of compensation in respect of inconvenience caused  by 
Bank of Scotland, and the cost of telephone calls, is a reasonable one.
In terms of Bank of Scotlands offer to give Mr K back  some of the cost of the PPI policy,  this 
service did communicate  that offer to Mr K in February 2018. Mr K indicated that he would 
want to accept that offer at that time.  Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr K 
this offer now Ive issued  my final decision.
I appreciate that Mr K is likely  to remain disappointed with my findings. However, for the 
reasons outlined above, my conclusion is that the policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6157775