K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about end of contract  charges  when  she voluntary terminated  her 
agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS).
background
In June 2015 Mrs G was supplied with a car and entered into a contract purchase agreement 
with MBFS. The contract  was voluntary terminated  in November 2018.
Following an inspection  of the car, Mrs G was asked to pay damage charges.
Mrs G disputes the charges. She says the damage  wasnt there when the car was collected 
and that any damage  must have been  done afterwards.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the damage was beyond fair wear  and 
tear according to industry  guidelines and that the charges were fair.
Mrs G didnt agree. She said that when the car was collected, the agent told her it was in 
good condition  and she signed  a document which said there was no damage to the car. Mrs 
G said that any damage must have been  caused  after the car was collected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the contract purchase  agreement.  This says that the car should  be returned  in 
good condition.  It also says damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
often used by finance companies  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  damage which  MBFS says is more  than 
fair wear and tear and therefore chargeable. There are also photos  of the damage.
Looking at the report and the photos, and taking  into account the BVLRA guidelines, Im 
satisfied that the damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Because  of this I dont think  MBFS has 
done anything  wrong in asking Mrs G to pay charges.
I understand Mrs G thinks the damage was caused  after the car was collected from her. She 
says she was present  at the inspection and that no damage was identified.
I can see that the car was collected  from Mrs G on 7 December 2018. However, it wasnt 
inspected until 21 January 2019. I havent seen any information to suggest that Mrs G was 
present at the inspection in January 2019.  Its possible that the agent looked at the car 
briefly when he collected the car in December  but its clear from the documents  signed  by 
Mrs G on that day that the car wasnt fully inspected on this date. Mrs G has said that she 
signed a document which said there  was no damage. From the information available, the 
vehicle collection receipt was the only document  signed by Mrs G on 7 December 2018. Ive 
Ref: DRN60405832looked at this and although  the print quality is poor,  Im satisfied theres no statement to the 
effect that the car has no damage.
Mrs G is adamant that the car didnt have any damage when it was collected  from her. I 
understand Mrs Gs strength of feeling  about  this. However, I dont  think its likely that such 
diverse and widespread damage is likely to have occurred after the car was collected. 
Looking at the photos of the damage, it looks as if the damage to the alloy wheel is quite old, 
because theres a build up of dirt within the damage. Ive also noted that two of the heads  of 
damage relate to damage in the rear of the car. I cant be certain of what  happened to the 
car after it was collected  but I think its unlikely that anyone  would have  been  in the back  of 
the car between collection  and inspection.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that the damage was present  when  the car was 
collected. I wouldnt expect any damage to be discussed or written  down  on collection 
because damage  is formally recorded following a full inspection. 
For the reasons  Ive given Im satisfied that the damage was present on collection.  I think the 
damage charges  are fair and Im unable to say that MBFS  has done anything  wrong  in 
asking Mrs G to pay these.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6040583