K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage with Halifax in 1988 and bought  the first PPI policy,  which  
covered Mr N, at around the same time.
In 2002 Mr and Mrs N took out a new mortgage  with Halifax. They also bought a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). A TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage 
Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI),  life cover and critical illness cover.  I understand 
Mr and Mrs N bought  the PPI and life elements of the policy for Mr N and the life element 
only for Mrs N. 
Since Mr and Mrs N have  only complained  about the PPI element of the TMPP, this is all Ive 
looked at in this decision in relation to the second  PPI policy.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ns complaint didnt  uphold  it. Mr and Mrs N 
disagree so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why. 
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs N the PPI was optional  and get their agreement to 
it before  it was applied  to their accounts. 
Ive got very little information about the sale of the first PPI policy  which isnt surprising given 
how long ago it was. Halifax doesnt  have any paperwork from the time and Mr and Mrs Ns 
recollections of events arent detailed. What this means is that I dont have enough  
information to say its more likely than not Halifax added the PPI to Mr and Mrs Ns account 
without their knowledge or consent.  So I dont uphold their complaint on this point  for the 
sale of the first policy.
For the sale of the second PPI policy, I also dont have much information. Again, theres no 
paperwork and Mr and Mrs Ns recollections  arent detailed. But, as Ive already mentioned,  
the TMPP package  offered  a range of options  including PPI, life and critical illness cover.  It 
seems Mr and Mrs N chose not to take PPI for Mrs N or critical  illness cover for either  of 
them. From this, I think its likely  Mr and Mrs N knew they could choose whether or not to 
buy the PPI. Thats also in line with what we know of Halifaxs sales processes at the time of 
this second sale.   
In both 1988 and 2002, Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs N, so it had to 
check it was right for them. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time and 
the policy details  that are likely to have applied, I think  it was. I say this because:
Ref: DRN62586402It seems  Mr N was eligible for the cover  under both policies.  And I havent seen 
anything to make me think hed have found it difficult to make a successful claim. 
Mr and Mrs N say Mr N had good  sick pay at the time of both sales.  But the first 
policy wouldve paid a benefit for up to 24 months if Mr N made a successful accident 
or sickness claim and for up to 12 months for a successful unemployment claim. The 
second policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 24 months  for each  
successful accident, sickness  or unemployment  claim. In both cases, the PPI 
wouldve paid out for longer than Mr Ns full sick pay and wouldve been  in addition to 
it. So I think theyd have found the cover  useful to protect  their mortgages,  which  
were long term and significant  commitments  secured on their home.   
I havent seen  anything to suggest the cover  was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs N. 
As well as checking the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs N, Halifax  also had to give them  
enough clear information  about  it for them to make an informed  decision  about whether they 
wanted it. Its possible the information  Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs N wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been,  both in 1988 and 2002.  But I think that, even if theyd been given clearer 
information about the PPI at the time of sales, theyd  still have bought  it. I say this because, 
as Ive already  said, I think they probably agreed to it and it was right for them. I dont think  
Mr and Mrs N have lost out because of anything Halifax may have done wrong, so theres 
nothing it needs  to do to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6258640