K820x#14complaint
Mr L, the proprietor  of a firm of claims consultants, complains on behalf  of Mr and Mrs W that 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc wont pay their full home insurance claim for repairing the 
damage to their underground  pipes.
background
Mr and Mrs W noticed that their septic tank kept overflowing. They were having problems 
with blockages close to their home and took advantage  of a free CCTV survey from the 
drainage specialists who in turn referred  them to Mr L after which a more detailed  survey 
was carried out. They reported back that the pipes were blocked and damaged  by tree roots. 
They recommended  complete  replacement of the pipes, removal of the trees and the 
installation of a new sewage treatment plant,  for a cost of £15,000. Mr L reported the claim 
to St Andrews. He said the claim was covered by the accidental damage term in the policy, 
in addition the septic tank was flooded.  He further said that in order to carry out a lasting  and 
effective repair the recommended repairs/installation should be carried out.
St Andrews  referred  the matter to one of its technical claims consultants.  He said that the 
pipes were blocked but that for there  to be accidental damage there had to be physical 
damage and that the blockage whilst being  functional impairment, wasnt physical damage. 
He further said that tree root blockage happened gradually. On an ex gratia  basis 
St Andrews  said it would fund the relining/replacement of the blocked sections of pipe. It 
estimated that this would  cost £1,000  it was prepared to pay that, less the £200 excess.
Mr L and Mr and Mrs W werent happy  with that. They pointed  out that this services  
approach is to regard  tree root blockage as accidental damage and that it wasnt fair to 
exclude such damage for having happened gradually as Mr and Mrs W couldnt possibly 
have been aware  of this happening.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said there was physical damage but that for it to 
come under the definition of accidental damage  it had to have happened suddenly. He didnt 
think tree root damage happened suddenly. He said that St Andrews had made a fair offer 
to settle the matter.
Mr L disagreed, pointing out that he considered the definition of accidental  damage to be 
unusual and in accordance with this services approach, should have been brought to the 
policyholders attention.  He confirms that it was not. So he said that as tree root blockage 
should be regarded  as accidental damage (according to its usual meaning) St Andrews was 
liable to cover the whole repair. The £1,000 mentioned was an arbitrary  figure  mentioned by 
St Andrew's with no substantiation. He also said that St Andrews hadnt set out clearly why 
it was declining  the claim.
I made  a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think  the blockage  amounted  to physical 
damage, so there was no cover  under  the accidental damage to services part of the policy.
St Andrews  had no further comment to make.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with my decision. In particular they believed  that the overfilling of 
the septic tank was caused in part by broken dip pipes causing  solid waste  to back  up 
towards the house. They believe  the breaking  of the dip pipes was accidental  damage,  and 
Ref: DRN65433482referred to one of my previous decisions  where I found that such  a breakage  was accidental 
damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
the claim
Mr L says that St Andrews hasnt set out clearly why it has declined  the claim. I think it has 
been consistent in its correspondence with Mr L that it didnt consider the blocked pipes to 
be physical damage  so didnt come  under  the definition of accidental damage in the policy.  
Additionally it didnt think the waste tanks were flooded, although they may have been over 
the normal level because  of the blockage  in the pipes further  down.
It did also refer at one stage to the damage not being caused suddenly,  so it would have 
been helpful if its final response  could  have set that out as well. 
accidental damage
The claim here, if it was to be covered, comes under the term in the policy  for Accidental  
damage to services. There is an exclusion to this cover for the cost of clearing  blocked  
drains or pipes. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as:
An accident that causes  physical damage, which is caused suddenly  by an outside force 
and is not expected and not deliberate.
If a home policy defines accidental  damage  we dont find this sort of definition  to be unusual  
or unfair. So I think it was reasonable  of St Andrews  to apply the definition and it wasnt  
something that needed to be drawn  particularly  to the policyholders attention (because its 
not significant or unusual).
.
I have considered the drainage specialists' report and St Andrews technical  consultant's 
comments on that report. I find that the damage  to the pipes was tree root blockage.  There  is 
reference to there being small cracks  in the pipes but not so as to affect water retention.  
I think tree root blockage isnt physical damage   rather  it is functional  impairment. As Ive 
pointed out there is an exclusion  under this policy term for the cost of clearing blocked drains 
or pipes.  There is however cover elsewhere for clearing drain blockages limited  to £1,000. 
Although St Andrews  doesnt specifically say its offer is made  under  the terms of that cover.
I think the evidence  shows that the pipes are blocked by tree roots, and that the 
repair/replacement of those pipes would resolve  that. I dont think however that this 
particular damage  is covered  under  the accidental damage to services term in the policy.  
Mr and Mrs W didnt  take out the optional accidental  damage to buildings cover,  though it 
wouldnt apply here anyway.
Ref: DRN65433483flooding
Mr L says the chambers of the septic tank are flooded. Whether or not thats the case, the 
cover for flood is for loss or damage  caused  by it. I think  if there was a flood it was the result 
of rather than the cause of the blocked pipes. And I havent seen  any evidence of loss or 
damage resulting  from any flood.
gradual loss
Mr L has pointed out our approach to gradual loss, namely that it might be unfair to apply an 
exclusion for this where the policyholder couldnt have been expected to know  the damage  is 
occurring. I understand  his point, but I have  found that there  was no accidental  damage 
under the terms  of the policy so the exclusion hasnt been  applied.
overall
I think St Andrews has acted fairly here.  It hasnt  withdrawn  its offer to pay £800 net of the 
excess. If Mr and Mrs W want to accept  that they,  or Mr L should approach St Andrews 
directly. 
Mr and Mrs W have  in response forwarded  two documents,  a previous decision of mine  and 
their expert report. Both of those  documents had been produced by Mr L and I had 
previously taken account of them.
Although Mr and Mrs W refer to the dip pipes  being  broken, the expert report didnt  find them  
to be the cause of the damage to the system. They were replaced during the initial CCTV 
survey and emptying.  It was noted that the blockage and flow back  continued.  The expert 
view, I find, was that the damage was caused by the tree root blockage. As Ive said, that 
wasnt covered under  the accidental damage to services term in the policy. Whilst breaking  
of the dip pipes could be accidental damage  (as in the decision referred to by Mr and Mrs W, 
which involved different  circumstances) that wasnt the cause of the damage  here.  Ive noted 
that as part of the emptying the sludge was washed  out.  
I note Mr and Mrs W in any event wont be accepting the £800 offered as they feel it would 
be swallowed up in the higher cost of their premiums over the next few years.  Thats entirely 
a matter for them, although they should check  with St Andrews what  the effect on their 
premiums will be even with a declined  claim.
I maintain my original  provisional findings  which are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Ref: DRN65433484Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6543348