K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that TSB Bank  plc didnt retain copies of paperwork  following a meeting 
she had with her husband  and family at a TSB branch in 2016.
background
In 2016, Mrs B had a meeting at her local TSB branch. TSB has no record  of what  was 
discussed at the meeting and it seems  that the meeting didnt result in Mrs B or her husband 
getting a loan. The staff involved have since left the bank. Mrs B and her husband were 
separated at the time.  Mrs B would like a record of the meeting in connection with divorce 
proceedings.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as TSB had 
exhausted all avenues  to try and obtain  any notes that were taken. Mrs B asked for a review  
saying that TSB shouldnt  have considered giving them a loan as they were separated  and 
should have contacted staff that had left the bank.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it, Mr and Mrs B may have gone into a TSB branch in 2016  in connection 
with a loan but no loan resulted. Mrs B wants the notes of that meeting but TSB says it 
doesnt have any notes. The absence of notes  isnt unusual  if no loan application was made 
which would explain their absence. Im unaware  of any regulatory  requirement to retain 
notes if there  was no subsequent loan application.  The bank employees involved at the 
meeting have left the bank. As they are now ex-employees, I wouldnt expect the bank to 
contact them  as they are no longer bound by their contracts of employment.   
I have to decide whether TSB has done  anything wrong. Mrs B is concerned that TSB may 
make joint loans to separated couples but that didnt happen here. Our role isnt to be a 
regulator to supervise TSBs lending policies  but to look at individual  cases.  TSB has gone to 
reasonable lengths to assist Mrs B but this may be a case where no notes of the meeting 
were retained. TSB doesnt appear  to have  any notes and so I cant require it to produce 
documents that it doesnt have. No loan was made so I cant criticise it for providing an 
inappropriate loan.  For these reasons,  I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65422102
Ref: DRN6542210