K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that U K Insurance Limited didnt pay a fair settlement when he made 
a claim under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr B was unfortunately  involved in an incident  which wasnt his fault. UKI settled his claim as 
a total loss because it decided it wasnt economical to repair Mr Bs car. Mr B decided to 
keep his car  so UKI deducted a salvage fee from the settlement sum it paid him.
Mr B complained to UKI that the settlement it paid him was too low. He felt his car was worth 
more. But UKI said it had paid a fair market value  for his car.
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint.  He said he was also unhappy with the size of the hire 
car he was given. And he said he was inconvenienced because  the approved repairer 
decided over a week  after it said his car was repairable that it wasnt.  Mr B had taken time 
off work and the hire car hadnt been delivered  as promised. Mr B said that he had to pay for 
other repairs while waiting  for the approved repairer to decide  it wasnt economical to repair  
it. 
Mr B wanted  compensation for the time he spent in calls to UKI and the inconvenience  it had 
caused him. And he wanted UKI to pay a fairer  market value for his car. 
Our investigator thought UKI had acted in a reasonable  way. He checked  the four main 
motor trade  guides  and found the valuation UKI had given  was within the range. And as UKI 
had paid Mr B £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused with the hire car company 
and approved repairer, he thought  this was enough. 
As Mr B decided to keep  his car, he would have had to pay for the separate  repairs  in any 
event. And the investigator explained  that Mr Bs policy  doesnt  guarantee a hire car of the 
same size as his car. 
Mr B didnt agree and so hed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
We dont decide  a valuation  but we look at whether  an insurer  has reached its valuation  
reasonably and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr Bs policy  with UKI says the most it will pay in the event  of a claim is the market value of 
his car. 
We generally think that the main motor trade guides are a reliable  way to find a valuation for 
a car. They are based on likely selling prices  and can provide valuations  for a car of the 
same make, model, condition, age and mileage  as Mr Bs. 
Ref: DRN68374422We checked the four main motor trade  guides and found their valuations ranged from £1,385 
to £1,780. As UKI paid Mr B a market value  settlement of £1,545, this is within the range of 
the trade guides  and I therefore think UKIs settlement was reasonable. 
As Mr B decided to keep  his car, UKI deducted a salvage fee. We think  this is fair as its also 
paid Mr B the market  value for his car. Insurers tend to have favourable contracts  with 
salvage agents. In this case UKI deducted  £185 from the settlement which  is what  it would 
have otherwise received. 
Mr Bs policy  says it will provide a small hatchback car for temporary use which may not be 
the same  as his own car in terms of size, status,  or model. I understand why Mr B wanted  a 
similar sized  car as he said he wanted  to put a child car seat into the hire car. Mr B said the 
car seat didnt fit in the car he was provided with. But I cant say that UKI acted unreasonably 
here as I think it provided a hire car in line with the policy terms. 
I think Mr B was put to some inconvenience  as he took a day off work expecting  delivery of 
the hire car  but this didnt happen.  So Mr B said he had to take a second day off work a 
week later.  The following  day, the approved  repairer  told him that it wasnt  economical  to 
repair his car. So Mr Bs car  which was driveable  wasnt collected by the approved 
repairer as it made its decision based on the photos  provided. Mr B said he had to wait 
longer than expected on a Saturday  morning for the hire car company to collect  the car from 
him. 
Mr B had to pay for separate repairs to his car during the week he thought his car was going 
to be repaired.  These  repairs  werent covered under the claim in any event  and as Mr B 
decided to keep  his car, I dont think these are costs  UKI are responsible  for. 
I think its reasonable to expect a degree  of inconvenience when dealing with a claim. 
Unfortunately its inevitable. I appreciate that Mr B had to spend  some time in calls to UKI 
and the hire car company.  I can see that some of Mr Bs calls to UKI were because  he was 
unhappy with the valuation it gave  him. As I think the valuation UKI paid was fair, I think  
overall the compensation UKI paid Mr B for the additional inconvenience it caused  is 
reasonable. 
I understand Mr B will be disappointed.  But I think UKI has done enough to resolve his 
complaint. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6837442