K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One)  mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2007.
background
Mr C took out his PPI when he called to activate his credit card in 2007. This policy cost 
£0.79 per £100  of the outstanding monthly balance.  It would have covered Mr C if he was off 
work because of an accident,  sickness  or if he lost his job. It would have paid out 10% of the 
outstanding balance for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr C was unhappy with this 
view and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Not all the paperwork is available  from the time. As the sale happened in 2007  12 years 
ago this is not surprising and its also not unusual as businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. But where the information is incomplete I will make  my decision based  
on the balance  of probabilities  that is, whats  more  likely to have happened taking into 
account  the evidence that is available, what the parties have  told us and what we know  
generally about sales of this type of insurance.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr C was given  a fair choice about buying the 
PPI. Mr C has told us that the PPI wasnt presented  as optional. Capital One hasnt been 
able to provide  me with a copy of the telephone call recording when Mr C phoned to activate 
his card and when he bought the PPI. But it has provided us with the type of sales script 
which would have been used. Taking into account the type of sale from the time, I think it 
was more likely that Mr C was given a choice about buying the PPI and he chose it knowing 
he could refuse it if he didnt want it.
Mr C says this policy  was recommended. Capital One says that this was a non-advised sale.  
Theres nothing to make me think a tailored  recommendation was made to Mr C about this 
policy. That meant Capital  One didnt need  to make sure it fitted  his circumstances but it still 
needed to give Mr C clear  enough  information  so that he could decide for himself whether or 
not he wanted the cover. 
It possible the information Capital One gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  Mr C says that he wasnt given any information. But I cant  say clearer or 
better information would  have  put Mr C off buying  the PPI.
I say this because  more information would  have shown Mr C he was eligible for the PPI and 
I dont think he would  have been affected by any of the main  limitations  or exclusions which 
might have made it more  difficult to make a successful claim. 
Ref: DRN66199962Mr C says he had sick pay of up to six months from his employer and he had savings 
covering his outgoings for up to three months.  Hes also told us his wife could have helped 
with the repayments. But this was a non-advised sale so Capital One didnt  need  to check  
his circumstances.  Even so thinking  about what Mr C has told us, this policy  would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay he got and likely for longer  than it lasted  up to 12 months. 
And having PPI in place meant  he could  leave his savings for other important expenses if 
things went wrong. I can understand and appreciate his wife would have wanted to help if 
things went wrong but if Mr C couldnt  work  or lost his job this might not have been so easy  
in the longer term. So I still think the PPI was useful if things  went  wrong.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time. So I dont think  better information about  
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6619996