K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about short-term  loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Quick  Quid (Quick  Quid  or the lender).
background
I set out the circumstances  leading to this complaint and my initial  conclusions  in a 
provisional decision to both parties in January. I have  included a copy of my provisional 
decision in this final decision, so I wont repeat the content here.
Quick Quid agreed seven loans for Mr M from August 2015 to July 2016. The amounts 
ranged between  £50 and £700,  and all were to be repaid over three months, as per the 
summary table in my provisional decision. I provisionally concluded that Quick Quid was 
irresponsible to lend to Mr M from and including his third loan taken out in September  2015.
Quick Quid disagreed with this outcome  and said:
We'd like to reiterate that there were substantial breaking periods ranging  between 15-58 
day between loans,  whilst the loan amounts funded  to Mr [M] fluctuated for lesser amounts. 
We'd also like to point out that 4 of these loans were repaid early which saved Mr [M] 
£727.60 in interest  costs  due to our no prepayment  penalty benefit for our consumers; these 
factors exhibits a clear  lack of loan dependency/debt  spiralling
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have addressed  the above points from 
Quick Quid in detail  in my provisional decision. Without any further comment  or new 
information from either party, Im continuing to partially uphold  Mr Ms complaint for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. 
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
Ive concluded  that Quick  Quid was irresponsible to lend to Mr M from and including his third 
loan taken out in September 2015.  In order to put Mr M back in the position he would have 
been in had this not happened, Quick Quid should:  
-refund all interest  and charges for Mr Ms loans agreed after this point, namely loans  
3 to 7 as set out in the summary table of my provisional  decision;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about these loans from Mr Ms credit  file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN66733592my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and require CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick  Quid  to 
put things right for him as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66733593COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as 
Quick Quid  (Quick Quid or the lender).
background
Quick Quid  agreed seven  loans for Mr M from August 2015 to July 2016. The amounts ranged 
between £50 and £700, and all were to be repaid over three  months.  The table below  summarises 
some of the information that Quick Quid provided about these loans. 
No. Start Repaid PrincipalPayment 
1Payment 
2Payment 
3Interest  & 
charges 
paid**
1 01/08/2015 08/08/2015 £350 £76 £87 £434 £20
2 29/08/2015 04/09/2015 £500 £120 £120 £620 £24
3* 12/09/2015 01/10/2015 £550 £69 £132 £682 £82
4 28/11/2015 03/12/2015 £50 £12 £12 £62 £2
5 08/12/2015 26/02/2016 £50 £8 £12 £61 £46
6 12/03/2016 28/05/2016 £250 £24 £70 £308 £167
7 01/07/2016 28/09/2016 £700 £151 £162 £885 £498
* This is the total loan amount  an initial amount of £350  was agreed  on the 12th of September and a further  
advance of £200 on the 13th brought  the total to £550.  
** Based on the account  information provided by Quick  Quid.
Mr M says that Quick  Quid was irresponsible to lend to him because the loans were  unaffordable for 
him. Quick  Quid  disagrees  that it was irresponsible to lend and says:
oAfter  1 March 2015  it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments in 
line with the regulators guidance and, as Mr Ms loans were issued after this date,  they were  
affordable.
oThere were  substantial  breaking periods or gaps ranging from 15 to 58 days between loans, 
and the loan amounts  funded to Mr M fluctuated.
oMr M repaid four of his loans early and this showed a clear lack of loan dependency or debt 
spiralling.
oIts lending process included  a customer declaration that acknowledged  when a loan 
repayment was greater than the customers estimated disposable  income, along  with a 
suggestion that they save to meet  the repayment.
Our adjudicator found  that Quick Quids affordability checks werent proportionate in all instances and 
that, had proportionate  checks  been  carried  out, the lender would have seen that Mr M couldnt afford  
the loans primarily due to his extensive spending  on gambling. They recommended that his complaint 
be upheld and that Quick  Quid refund the interest and charges he paid on all his loans.
Quick Quid  didnt agree  with this recommendation  and so the case  has come to me, as an 
ombudsman, for a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time. 
Ref: DRN66733594Having done so I plan to partially uphold Mr Ms complaint and ask Quick Quid  to refund the interest 
and charges hes paid on loans 3 onwards. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Quick  Quid, 
and for Mr M also to some extent as our adjudicator recommended that we uphold his complaint 
about all his loans. I hope my explanation below  makes it clear why I have come to this conclusion. 
post-2015 affordability assessments
Quick Quid  first mentioned  this argument in its business  submissions to us and again in response to 
our adjudicators view. In the view, our adjudicator said:
I note what youve said about the loans Mr [M] borrowed  from 2015 onwards, however  our job is to 
look not only into the rules  and regulations  set by the regulator at the time of borrowing  but also the 
law, good industry practice and all the available evidence and arguments to help us decide  whether  
we think what the business  has done is right or not.
I fully agree with this point. As Quick Quid is no doubt aware,  this Service is required  to take into 
account wider  considerations  in making  determinations  on complaints.  As the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook  sets out in the rules  and guidance relevant  to dispute handing 
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint  by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  (DISP 3.6.1R)
And DISP 3.6.4R goes on to explain that
In considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the Ombudsman will 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice  at the relevant 
time.
So, I am required to consider more  than the rules  and guidance set out by the regulators  in making 
my determination on a complaint. And I would  not be acting in accordance  with my statutory  role if I 
only considered the extent to which Quick  Quid complied  with rules and guidance set out by the FCA 
in my determination. 
Looking at the rules  and guidance that were in place at the time,  the FCA was the regulator when 
Quick Quid  lent to Mr M. The FCAs Principles for Business (PRIN)  set out the high level standards  
which all authorised  firms  are required  to comply with. PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) says A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them  fairly. 
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related 
regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such  as 
Quick Quid.  At the time, August 2015, these required lenders to take reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  
- CONC  5.3.1G(2). 
However, the FCA was not prescriptive  about exactly how the relevant rules and guidance set out in 
CONC should  be implemented. Specifically CONC  does not set out how a lender ought  to go about its 
affordability assessment.  The regulations are clear,  however, that the assessment needed  to be 
proportionate to the circumstances  of the lending and it needed to be customer-focussed,  whatever 
the extent and scope of it or whatever type or source of information it used.  And so I cannot pre-judge  
Mr Ms complaint about  irresponsible lending  on the basis that the affordability checks Quick Quid 
Ref: DRN66733595carried out were the right thing to do for all customers in all circumstances as it had due regard to the 
regulations because the regulations do not contain this level of detail.
And finally, it doesnt follow  that a firm cannot have treated any consumer  unfairly simply because  it 
has been authorised and is regulated by the FCA.  This assumes that an authorised  firms regulated 
activities are always implemented in a way that results in fair outcomes for all consumers.  This is not 
the case, as the experience  of this Service bears out.1 
    
gaps and early repayment
Quick Quid  says that the existence of gaps in lending  does not typically demonstrate dependency on 
the credit.  It said that there  were substantial breaking periods or gaps  ranging from 15 to 58 days  
between Mr Ms loans.  And that the amounts he borrowed varied and he repaid  some of his loans 
early.
Firstly, I can accept that where there is a period of time between someone repaying a loan and 
applying for another  one, it might be reasonable to conclude that their immediate funding  shortfall had 
been met and that they were  not relying  on high-cost short-term  credit to meet an ongoing need.  And 
so it might be proportionate for a lender to carry out less stringent checks  or gather less information  
than might be expected for an affordability assessment prior to or in the absence of such  a gap. 
However, I dont think there is an absolute figure for the length of gap that signifies a dependency on 
such credit  or one that signifies a lack of dependency.  I am likely to view a gap of one or two pay 
cycles differently to a gap of a year.  But my conclusions about what a gap might signify will depend on 
the circumstances of the consumer  and the particulars  of the lending relationship.  
In Mr Ms case there was a gap of about two months between loans 3 and 4, and a gap of about  one 
month between loans  6 and 7.  I dont think the second gap is significant  at that point Mr M had 
been borrowing from Quick  Quid for almost 10 months and this was the largest  amount that hed 
applied for. So I dont think its reasonable for Quick Quid to conclude that Mr M wasnt dependent on 
its loans at that stage because he hadnt  applied  for credit for a month. 
However, I have some  sympathy with Quick Quids viewpoint regarding the earlier gap because  of 
how Mr M managed his credit prior to applying for his fourth loan and because  of the relatively  low 
value of the fourth loan at £50. As Quick Quid pointed out, Mr M repaid his first three loans early. To 
be clear - Mr M repaying  his loans early doesnt automatically mean  that he managed to repay them 
in a sustainable manner, in other words  without  having  to borrow again to make up the gap this left in 
his funds, borrow from elsewhere or go without. That said, he repaid  the first two loans within a week 
of them being agreed, the third within three weeks, and all of these  loans  had a term of approximately 
three months. 
However, Ive also considered the other information Quick Quid  held about  Mr M at this point.  Mr M 
told Quick  Quid about his income and expenses when he applied for his loans. I understand Quick  
Quid ran a credit check  each  time Mr M applied for a loan (and also for reasons unknown in mid-
October 2015, about half-way between Mr Ms third and fourth loan).  Based  on all of this information, 
the lender calculated a monthly estimated disposable income or monthly  EDI figure which says it 
used in its affordability calculations.  Some of this information is set out in the table below.
1 http://www.ombudsman-complaints-data.org.uk
Ref: DRN66733596From Mr M
No. Income Expenses Disposable 
incomemonthly 
EDI
1 £1,300 £625 £675 £564
2 £1,300 £625 £675 £373
3 £1,300 £625 £675 £373
4 £1,300 £625 £675 £41
5 £1,300 £625 £675 £41
6 £1,300 £625 £675 £190
7 £1,300 £425 £875 £503
Quick Quid  estimated Mr M would have £41 a month of disposable income when considering whether 
or not to agree his fourth and fifth loans. This is a considerable drop from his previous estimated 
disposable income  figures  and is suggestive of an increase in borrowing elsewhere. So I dont think  
that in this case Quick  Quid could reasonably consider that Mr M wasnt dependent on credit to 
manage his finances, notwithstanding the gap before applying for his fourth loan. 
saving to meet repayments  
Quick Quid  says that where the final payment of a loan exceeds the validated estimated disposable  
income for that last month, the customer must read and check a box that advises them  of the fact that 
they may need to save income  from the previous  months in order  to have sufficient funds to pay the 
final payment.  
The declaration states:
By checking this box you acknowledge  you can afford to make a repayment of [£X] on [date] and [£Y] 
on [date]. You acknowledge that you understand your final repayment is greater than you[r] normal 
disposable income  and you may need to save money over the life of the loan in order to make the 
final repayment  out of disposable income. 
As mentioned,  Quick  Quid has provided  what it calls monthly estimated  disposable income figures 
for each of Mr Ms loans,  though  it hasnt  explained how it has produced these  numbers. And I dont 
know how this relates to the validated estimated disposable  income figure. But even assuming Mr M 
did in fact see this declaration, I dont know the context within which it appeared or how prominent it 
was. And, irrespective of this, advising  Mr M that he may need to take some action in order to be able 
to make a repayment that is more than the money  he would usually have available to him does not 
take away  Quick Quids own responsibility  to assess whether or not the loan was going  to be 
sustainably affordable for him. 
If Quick Quid  felt that in Mr Ms case hed need to take some action to meet his loan repayments as 
they fell due, this suggests that it understood that there was a risk that he would not be able repay  his 
loan the way it was structured unless remedial action  was put in place.  It then left this to Mr M to 
address. It didnt, for example, offer to structure the loan repayments to reflect  its expectations of 
Mr Ms money management   for all of Mr Ms loans the final contractual  repayment is far larger than 
the previous two. 
I can accept that in some circumstances, where the shortfall  in disposable  income is small,  it might be 
reasonable to proceed with an application on the basis that the additional  cost of the final large loan 
repayment (balloon  payment)  could be met without difficulty by some level of surplus or saving from 
previous months. And especially so where  there is no history of borrowing or other indications  that a 
consumer might  not be in a position to save or have  surplus income from earlier months. 
Ref: DRN66733597So, for example, it might have been reasonable for Quick Quid to decide to agree Mr Ms first loan on 
the basis  that he could potentially save to meet  the final loan repayment as there was nothing  at the 
time to indicate that he wouldnt be able to do so. However, Mr M took out his second loan within  
three weeks of repaying his first, and his third in just over a week after repaying his second.  This 
doesnt suggest to me that Mr M had recourse to spare funds. And I think  Quick Quid  ought  to have 
taken this behaviour into account when granting  further loans with a similar  structure.
did Quick  Quid carry out proportionate checks and, if not, what would proportionate checks  have 
revealed?
Bearing all the above in mind, I think the checks Quick Quid carried out went far enough for Mr Ms 
first loan. Our adjudicator concluded that this loan was unaffordable but hadnt considered  whether  it 
was reasonable for Quick  Quid to conclude  that Mr M wouldnt be in a position to meet  his loan 
repayments when they were due. I dont  think this was an unreasonable  basis for lending as this was 
Mr Ms first loan, taking  into account what he told Quick  Quid about  his circumstances and information 
from the lenders  own checks  and calculations. And so I dont  find that Quick  Quid lent irresponsibly 
here.
Looking ahead to loans 4 and 5 - as Ive mentioned  above,  the monthly estimated  disposable income 
Quick Quid  calculated  for these loans was very low (£41) relative to its figures  for Mr Ms earlier  loans. 
I think  it ought  to have done more here to satisfy itself that Mr M was able to afford to repay  these  
loans in a sustainable  manner, notwithstanding that there was a couple of months  gap before Mr M 
asked for his fourth loan. As our adjudicator explained, had Quick Quid looked  to form a more 
comprehensive understanding of Mr Ms circumstances at this point, it would likely  have learned that 
he was spending a large amount of money relative  to his (actual) monthly  income (and at times 
exceeding it) on gambling.
But even before  considering this, given the size of the loan repayments and the information the lender 
had estimated to be Mr Ms disposable income, I think loans 4 and 5 were foreseeably  not sustainable 
for him. As someone who was renting and working, it wouldnt take very much unexpected or 
seasonal expense over a three  month period to leave  Mr M in the position  of having to borrow to meet  
his loan repayments. So I dont think Quick Quid was responsible to agree  these two loans. 
The monthly  disposable income  figure Quick Quid calculated for loans 2 and 3 was £373, more than 
the later loans but less than the £564 it calculated  for his first loan. Ive had a look at these  figures  in 
more detail   see the below table. I have considered these figures carefully as the final repayment for 
Mr Ms second loan is £620, which is about 1.75 times  the amount Quick Quid  calculated that he 
would have available  monthly.
Its debateable  for me whether or not Quick Quid ought to have done more here to check  that this 
second loan would be affordable for Mr M in a sustainable way. Bearing in mind that Mr M repaid his 
first loan within a week and that this was still early on in their lending  relationship, I am giving  Quick 
Quid the benefit  of the doubt here and have concluded that I dont think  it was unreasonable  of it to 
have agreed  this loan. And Ive noted that Mr M again repaid this within a week.
Quick Quid's figures
No.Payment 
1Payment 2 Payment 3Total 
repaymentMonthly 
EDILoan 
term in 
monthsTerm 
EDITotal as % 
of Term 
EDI
2 £120 £120 £620 £860 £373 3.1 £1,156 74%
3a £45 £84 £434 £563 £373 2.6 £970 58%
3b £69 £132 £682 £883 £373 2.6 £970 91%
Turning to Mr Ms third loan  this was initially for an amount of £350, with a total repayment of £563.  
Mr M asked for a further advance the next day, which was granted. This left him with a higher final 
payment of £682 and, it seems, needing to repay more than 90% of his estimated disposable  income 
Ref: DRN66733598over the term of the loan. Quick Quid has told us that one of its internal lending rules  is that the total 
repayment during the loan chain cannot exceed 80% of the customers total estimated disposable  
income for the duration of the loan term. Im not sure how this additional  advance  wasnt caught  by 
this rule. But, given that this would  potentially  leave Mr M with less than £90 over three months to 
manage any unexpected or seasonal  costs, again as with loans 4 and 5, I cant  agree  that this was a 
responsible lending decision.
Mr M asked for a sixth loan within about two weeks  of repaying his fifth, and it was for an amount  of 
£250. When he repaid  this, he asked for his final and largest loan of £700 about a month later.  On 
each of these occasions,  I think Quick  Quid ought  to have done more  to understand Mr Ms situation.  
The information he provided about his circumstances  didnt change, and he was borrowing increasing 
amounts in relatively quick succession. 
As our adjudicator  has explained in detail,  had the lender  looked  further into Mr Ms circumstances it 
was likely  to have  discovered  at this point, if not before, that Mr M was spending large sums on 
gambling, in other words more than his actual monthly salary at times. Mr M mentioned this in his 
complaint to Quick Quid saying that he was using its loans to fund his gambling.  And, armed with this 
understanding which  I think its likely it would  have  at this point had it carried  out proportionate 
checks, I dont think Quick  Quid as a responsible  lender, would have agreed these two loans  for him. I 
understand Mr M arranged a repayment plan for his seventh loan and Quick Quid  declined to lend to 
him after this.
in summary
Quick Quid  shouldnt  have  agreed loans  3, 4 or 5 for Mr M on the basis  of the information it had 
available to it. And it ought  to have done more to assess the affordability of loans 6 and 7 for Mr M. 
Based on the information it had and what it was likely to have found out, it wouldnt have agreed to 
any of these loans. And so I am upholding  Mr Ms complaint about  these. 
what Quick Quid  should do to put things  right
As Ive concluded, Quick  Quid was irresponsible to lend to Mr M from and including  his third loan 
taken out in September 2015. In order to put Mr M back in the position  he would have been in, Quick 
Quid should:  
-refund all interest  and charges for Mr Ms loans agreed  after this point, namely  loans 
3 to 7 as set out above;
-pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates of 
settlement;
-remove  any adverse information about these loans  from Mr Ms credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  must give 
Mr M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mr Ms complaint for the reasons given  above and require 
CashEuroNet UK LLC Limited (trading  as Quick Quid) to put things right as Ive set out. 
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add  before considering my decision 
on this complaint once more.
Ref: DRN6673359