K822xComplaint
Mr W complains, in summary, that Lloyds Bank PLC did not do enough to help him recover 
all the money he had paid to a binary  options  trading platform  using his Lloyds VISA debit 
card.
Background 
I recently  issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. After considering all the evidence  and 
arguments presented  by both sides, I was minded to conclude it would be fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds  to refund the losses that Mr W suffered as a result of this scam, as 
well as remove any adverse data recorded against his credit  file in relation to this matter.  
Rather than repeating  all I said in my provisional decision about the background and the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint again here, I attach a copy  of my provisional  decision to 
this final decision. My provisional decision forms part of this final decision and it details in full 
how and why I reached my preliminary conclusions. It also details in full the redress  I was 
minded to order and why. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished  to make  in response  
to my provisional decision by 26 February 2021.  
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Response to my provisional findings
Mr W responded and accepted my provisional decision. Though, he asked if Lloyds could 
reinstate his business account as this was closed without notice (along with his other  
accounts) when he could no longer afford  to service  his overdrawn balance. Our investigator  
explained that Mr W would need to complain  to Lloyds directly about this as it was not 
included in his original  complaint. And Lloyds should be given the opportunity to respond to 
his concerns. 
I queried whether Mr W has since repaid the overdrawn balance  on his current  account  with 
Lloyds and he explained  he couldnt afford to, so the account defaulted.  I explained to Mr W 
that Lloyds would be entitled  to repay  this debt from the settlement and he wouldnt be 
entitled to 8% interest on this amount. Mr W accepted  this. 
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional  decision. In light of this, I see no reason to depart 
from the resolution  I proposed in my provisional decision and include a provision to allow  
Lloyds to settle the outstanding debt on Mr Ws current account. 
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Lloyds Bank  PLC to:
Ref: DRN60408582Refund to Mr W all the payments he made  to O Ltd (totalling £91,000) within 28 days 
of receiving notification  of his acceptance of my final decision.
Pay interest to Mr W on the above sums (less any debt owed in relation  to Mr Ws 
current account) at an annual rate of 8% simple,  from the date Mr W reported  the 
fraud, to the date of settlement. If Lloyds is required to deduct tax from the interest it 
should send  Mr W a tax deduction certificate  so he can claim it back  from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Pay Mr W an additional £300 for distress  and inconvenience caused also within 28 
days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision, failing which  
interest will thereafter accrue  at 8% simple per year (less any tax) until payment is 
made. 
Refund any overdraft interest  and charges applied to Mr Ws current  account  from 
the date he reported  the fraud  to Lloyds to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse  data that has been recorded against  Mr Ws credit file as a 
result of him exceeding his overdraft limit from the date he reported the fraud to 
Lloyds.  
Should an outstanding debt be owed on Mr Ws current  account (where payments to 
O Ltd were paid from) Lloyds Bank PLC is entitled  to repay this balance first from the 
settlement outlined in the first bullet.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2021.
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
Complaint
Mr W complains,  in summary, that Lloyds  Bank PLC did not do enough to help him recover  all the money he had 
paid to a binary options  trading  platform using  his Lloyds VISA  debit  card.
Background
After seeing an entity  offering  binary options investment  trading,  O Ltd, Mr W called them for further information.  
A representative for O Ltd told him hed be given a broker who would guide his trades at each  step so that he 
wouldnt lose any money and he would make large profits over a short term. Mr W made 12 payments  to them 
totalling £91,000 in December 2017. He says this was his life savings. 
Ref: DRN60408583Mr W says he invested a smaller amount to begin with and was provided  with a trading  platform  where he could  
see his deposits and profits. He says the account manager contacted  him daily to ask him to deposit more money 
onto the platform. As he saw his investments doing well, he was persuaded to deposit more. 
Once Mr Ws investment had reached approximately £134,000, Mr W attempted to withdraw  £60,000  from his 
trading platform as he needed to pay a debt on a mortgage for a property that had been repossessed during the 
financial crisis. O Ltd cancelled his withdrawal request because it hadnt been made in accordance with their 
terms and conditions. He attempted to make  the withdrawal request  again and O Ltd cancelled it again due to a 
different condition that hadnt been satisfied. The broker then called Mr W and told him that there would  be a very 
large trade  and would be 100% guaranteed and he was persuaded to invest.  The broker guided Mr W to place 
three trades for the entire balance of his trading account which left the account with a zero balance.  The broker 
emailed Mr W the same day explaining the trade  was unsuccessful and Mr W had lost everything. 
Mr W conducted some further research into O Ltd and found others who said theyd been scammed by them. He 
says he realised he was not provided with a genuine trading platform and rather a simulation that made it seem 
as though he was profiting. He also found that O Ltd was unauthorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). That led him to approach Lloyds  to ask the bank to retrieve his money. 
Here is a list of the disputed payments:
Payment number
Date Supplier Payment method Amount
1 11/12/2017      O Ltd VISA debit card £500.00
2 11/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £500.00
3 14/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £5,000.00
4 20/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £10,000.00
5 20/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £10,000.00
6 21/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £10,000.00
7 22/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £10,000.00
8 22/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £10,000.00
9 26/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £10,000.00
10 26/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £10,000.00
11 27/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £5,000.00
12 27/12/2017 O Ltd VISA debit card £10,000.00
Total: £91,000.00
Lloyds acknowledge  Mr W supplied it a lot of information in support of his claim.  But says its specialist  team that 
handles disputes refused to process chargeback claims because Mr W agreed  to the terms and conditions. It 
pointed to a clause that stated O Ltd could  decline a withdrawal request at any point  if it didnt  comply with the 
necessary instructions. Lloyds acknowledge it could have provided a better service to Mr W and paid him £300 in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator  concluded,  first of all, that O Ltd had operated a scam. She further  found that Lloyds  ought to 
have submitted a chargeback claim to VISA given  the nature of Mr Ws complaint.  As a result, she recommended 
that the bank  should refund to Mr W his outstanding  money,  plus interest and any charges applied to Mr Ws 
account. 
Although Mr W accepted the investigators suggestion,  Lloyds  did not respond. After a delay of almost seven  
months  during which  time Mr W found it difficult to understand  why the bank was taking so long  Lloyds  still 
has not responded. 
The case  has been  passed  to me to decide. 
My Provisional  Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position  in law is that Lloyds  are under an obligation to honour payment  requests  made by Mr W in 
accordance with the Payment  Services Regulations  (in this case the 2009 version) and the terms and conditions 
of his account. However, the regulations  allow for payment service providers, like Lloyds,  to mandate delays in 
permitting these transactions  if it suspects payments may be unauthorised or fraudulent. 
Ref: DRN60408584This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a bank should, in my 
opinion, fairly  and reasonably take additional  steps, or make additional checks, before  processing a payment,  or 
in some cases  decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from the possibility of financial 
harm.
Firms authorised by the FCA have a regulatory duty to counter the risk they might be used  to further financial 
crime. The FCA also has the regulatory remit to tackle investment  fraud which prompted its predecessors paper  
of 2012 titled; Banks defences against investment  fraud  (the 2012 paper). As the paper constituted  guidance 
from the regulator,  a consultation period was included. Once  this period ended, the regulator said the 2012  paper 
would be included in its Financial Crime Guide (FCG).  Ive noted the contents of the paper were added to the 
2015 version of the guide and were included in the FTCR 14.1.4G. And whilst the guide did not contain binding 
rules, it did act as guidance  to firms in order  to reduce the risk of financial  crime. So when considering  Lloyds  
obligations to follow its customers instructions and balance its regulatory  duty  I think having consideration of 
what its regulator says is reasonable. 
The 2012  paper set out concerns of some  firms around warning customers  about a payment to a prospective  
investment, as this could be considered investment advice. The regulator felt it was perfectly possible  to warn 
customers about the dangers of falling victim to investment fraudsters without  providing investment  advice. And 
considered not warning customers because  of this concern  to be an example of poor practice.  
The 2012 paper suggested several sources available to building up a watch  list for investment  fraud, referencing 
boiler room fraud, for the purposes of transaction monitoring. Examples included:
Intelligence from the FSA or City of London  Police about  unauthorised businesses or the names of 
suspect shares. 
Intelligence from other banks e.g. from the banks  boiler  room forum.
Lists published  on the FSA website of UK and overseas unauthorised businesses.
Lists published  by other organisations e.g. the International Organisation of Securities Commissions  
publishes an Investor Alert list on its website  covering a number of different  jurisdictions.
Whilst the 2012 paper was not a prescriptive set of rules,  I think its reasonable for Lloyds to have considered 
credible data - in line with its regulators recommendations - when assessing investment fraud  risks to it and its 
customers. 
The FCG  2015 contained  examples of good  and bad practices around investment  fraud. Good practice included: 
 A bank regularly  assesses the risk to itself and its customers of losses from fraud, including investment  
fraud, in accordance  with their established  risk management framework. The risk assessment does  not 
only cover situations where the bank could cover losses, but also where customers  could lose and not 
be reimbursed by the bank. Resource allocation and mitigation measures  are informed by this 
assessment. 
 A bank contacts  customers  if it suspects a payment is being made to an investment  fraudster. 
 A bank has transaction  monitoring rules designed to detect specific types of investment  fraud.  
Investment fraud  subject  matter experts help set these rules.
I looked into what credible data was available prior to and during the period Mr W sent payments  to O Ltd. Ive 
noted:
In June 2016,  Action fraud published a warning about binary options investment fraud noting  common  
deceptive practices carried out by fraudsters.1
In July 2016  European  Securities  and Markets Authority (ESMA) published a warning  about  CFDs,  
binary options and other speculative products  noting the aggressive  marketing by some firms and the 
risks involved with unauthorised and unregulated  entities  offering these products.2 
1 https://www.actionfraud.police.uk/alert/fraudsters-claim-binary-options-are-being-used-for-investment-scams
2 https://www.esma.europa.eu/sites/default/files/library/2016-
1166_warning_on_cfds_binary_options_and_other_speculative_products_0.pdf
Ref: DRN60408585In December 2016,  the FCA published  a paper titled; Enhancing conduct of business rules  for firms  
providing contract for difference products to retail  clients . In this paper it noted the rise in the number of 
unauthorised firms and investment scams targeting clients  by purporting to offer authorised forms of 
retail CFD products or binary bets. It further noted a significant  rise in alleged scams linked to binary 
bets. 
In December 2016, the gambling commission issued  a scam  warning about binary options and stated: 
An unlicensed operator is likely operating  illegally.3
The International Organisation  of Securities Commissions  published investor alerts about O Ltd from the 
Swiss Financial  Market Supervisory  Authority on 15 June  2016  and the Financial  Market Authority on 27 
November 2017. 
In October 2017, The City of London police published a report that noted the number of binary options 
scam reports and sums  involved had significantly increased since 2012. With a total of £59m being 
reported to it. Of this, numbers  of reports and amounts involved  significantly increased from the end of 
2014.4 
I have  also taken account of VISA expanding its chargeback  scheme rules  in October 2017. It issued  guidance  to 
its clients (card issuers and merchant  acquirers)  on 26 October 2017 and when explaining the practices of 
deceptive binary options and investment trading merchants it said:
These merchants  may operate  unregulated  trading platforms prone to manipulation by the controlling 
entities.
.To gain consumer confidence, binary options merchants  may use sophisticated  terminology to 
emulate legitimate broker/dealers,  but are often unlicensed to operate in the countries they target . 
In my view, VISA expanded  its rules to counteract  the global binary options fraud which  was detrimental to 
cardholders. This was after pressure was placed on it to do so from law enforcement agencies. But this guidance 
was made  available to Lloyds as one of VISAs card issuers,  rather than the general  public.   
In addition,  as a matter of good industry practice in December 2017, I consider firms should in any event have 
taken proactive  steps to: 
 look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that 
could involve fraud  or be the result of a scam (something also recognised by the British Standards  
Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of Practice (the BSI Code),  which a number of banks and trade associations were  involved in the 
development of).
Taking all these things into account, I consider that at the time of the payments in December  2017, Lloyds should 
fairly and reasonably:
 Have  been monitoring  accounts and any payments made or received to protect it and its customers from 
investment fraud.
 Have  been aware of binary options investment fraud,  particularly the practices of unregulated  companies  
and been  monitoring transactions to suspected fraudsters, including O Ltd.
 Have  had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its 
customers were at risk of fraud  (among  other things).  This is particularly so given the increase in 
sophisticated fraud  and scams in recent  years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.   
 In some circumstances, irrespective  of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, to contact 
its customer if it suspected  it was paying money to a fraudster.
3 http://www.gamblingcommission.gov.uk/news-action-and-statistics/News/binary-options-scams-warning
4 http://news.cityoflondon.police.uk/r/929/police_day_of_action_after_victims_report_losing_
Ref: DRN60408586 Had a good understanding of the chargeback scheme rules  including  the expansion of VISAs rules to 
cover issues  relating  to binary options and investment  trading  merchants  blocking cardholders from 
withdrawing their available  balances.  
I can see that our investigator queried whether  Lloyds made any additional security checks considering  Mr W 
spent a large sum over a short period of time. Lloyds  said;
High value transactions would potentially be stopped. However,  it is often seen  that high value 
transactions to investment companies are normal  so transactions such as these are less likely to be 
blocked.
 
Having looked  at the technical evidence, I dont think Lloyds  blocked any transactions to O Ltd and Ive thought  
about whether this was reasonable in light of what Ive set out already.  And I dont think  it was.  
I think Lloyds ought  to have had concern over Mr Ws payments to O Ltd at the point  of the first payment.  Whilst I 
appreciate this was for a relatively low amount, Lloyds ought to have  had concerns about O Ltd because of the 
credible adverse data available about it and binary options investment fraud  more generally. 
I dont  think  it was in Mr Ws contemplation, at the time of his payments to O Ltd, that they could use deceptive 
software to trick him into believing his deposits were earning  profits. Or that his deposits were not safe or secure. 
After all, Mr W was not placing investment  trades independently, he was being guided by O Ltds account 
manager  who he believed to be a professional  account manager. I consider Mr W was the innocent victim of a 
sophisticated investment fraudster and I think a warning from his bank  would have prevented the losses he 
suffered. And to be clear, I think it would have  been perfectly  possible  for Lloyds to have  warned Mr W without 
giving him investment advice  as explained by Lloyds regulator.  So, Im of the view that Lloyds should refund all 
of Mr Ws payments to O Ltd. 
Ive also considered whether  Lloyds could have recovered Mr Ws payments through  the VISA  chargeback 
scheme when he brought his concerns to it (because this also offered  a route to the recovery of his funds). 
Chargeback 
The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and banks are not under a formal  obligation to submit  a chargeback claim. 
However, this services view is that it is good practice for a bank always  to make a chargeback  claim  unless  it is, 
for example,  very evident  on the basic  facts that it stands no reasonable prospect of success.  Lloyds suggested 
that it couldnt process chargebacks for Mr W because he agreed to O Ltds  terms and conditions. Our 
investigator didnt agree and felt there were strong grounds for Lloyds to pursue  a chargeback claim. 
In all the circumstances,  therefore, I share the investigators  view that Lloyds should have been more alert to the 
various adverse indicators about O Ltd at the time it received  Mr Ws
complaint than it apparently was, including when considering its chargeback options. 
VISA had already given Lloyds guidance about the deceptive tactics  of companies like O Ltd and Mr W had 
presented a clear  case of misrepresentation.  I think Lloyds should have attempted a chargeback  claim. Im aware 
that VISA requires some  specific  evidence for the reason  code that would  have  been applicable to this dispute. 
This, amongst  other  things, would  have  included a screenshot of his trading account, showing a balance  which  
of course Mr W didnt  have at the point of his complaint. This would  have  been  needed for VISA to have  made a 
determination at arbitration as the final stage of its process.  That said, weve seen successful chargeback claims 
being made in circumstances like Mr Ws and Lloyds  have not presented  any evidence that would  suggest O 
Ltds bank would have defended a chargeback claim. 
It also follows that, as the chargeback scheme  is a voluntary one, it is Lloyds choice whether  to process a 
chargeback. I wouldnt see why a firm like Lloyds would have less ability to process a chargeback  claim in 
absence of all the evidence required (when the merchant has purposefully prevented the cardholder from 
gathering this evidence), than a merchant  acquirer would have to defend the same claim when  its customer  was 
operating fraudulently. Which may perhaps be why weve seen examples of merchant acquirers not defending 
chargeback claims and card issuers succeeding on this basis.  
So, I think Lloyds have deprived Mr W a route  to getting  his funds back  through the chargeback  scheme.  
Even if Lloyds  could persuade me that O Ltds bank would have defended the claim,  I consider that if it had 
intervened, at any point  of the 12 payments  to O Ltd, he would have stood a better  chance to gather  the required 
evidence of the chargeback scheme and before O Ltd had the opportunity to take this chance away. I share our 
investigators view that O Ltds tactics of placing hurdles in the way of withdrawal attempts is a common  feature 
Ref: DRN60408587of this type of scam. This is something Lloyds ought to have  more familiarity with through its own customer 
complaints and the specific insight it has had from VISA, than Mr W would  have had. 
Its now too late for Lloyds to process chargeback  claims  for Mr W but I think  if it had, his claim  could have likely 
succeeded. And certainly, would have, if Lloyds  intervened at any point of his 12 payments  to O Ltd. It follows 
that I think Lloyds should return all 12 payments Mr W paid to O Ltd. 
Distress and inconvenience 
Our statutory rules provide   at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the FCA Handbook  that we may give case-management 
directions and fix or extend deadlines; and that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by a party to 
provide information requested;
And that.
If a respondent fails to comply  with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:  (1) proceed  with the consideration 
of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience  caused  by 
that failure in any award which he decides to make. 
Although most of Mr Ws distress or inconvenience probably  resulted from the criminal acts of O Ltd, I think 
Lloyds could  have done  more to protect him from the impact of its statutory  duty to co-operate with our 
complaints process  (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial  Conduct  Authority Handbook ). 
I therefore  consider  an additional £300 compensation  for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate.  I recognise  
Lloyds has already paid Mr W £300 for the poor customer service  he received during the course  of his complaint. 
I think this was a fair and reasonable sum for the distress and inconvenience Mr W experienced up until the point 
of Lloyds responding to his complaint. But I do consider it has caused  him further distress and inconvenience  in 
not responding to our deadlines. This would make the total compensation award £600.  
Interest and account  charges
Our investigator felt it would  be reasonable  for Lloyds  to refund interest and charges  applied to Mr Ws account. 
Having reviewed Mr Ws bank statements, I can see that prior to his payments to O Ltd, he regularly utilised his 
agreed £10,000 overdraft  facility with Lloyds. But he repaid  this facility in November  2017, with his savings. And 
its clear  that he couldnt service his account in the same  way from around January 2018 and exceeded his 
agreed overdraft limit. Im persuaded Mr W would have  repaid this balance with his savings, rather than continue  
to utilise his overdraft  facility  over a long term. So, I think it would  be reasonable for Lloyds to refund the overdraft 
interest and charges  from the point he reported the fraud to it. 
Equally, if Lloyds have  recorded any adverse  information against Mr Ws credit file as a result of him exceeding  
his overdraft  limit, this should  be removed because I dont  think he would  have  exceeded  his overdraft limit if 
Lloyds had helped him recover his loss. 
But I do intend to award a different rate of interest  here because I think the loss of these funds has cost Mr W 
more overall.  I think it would be reasonable  for Lloyds  to pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date Mr W reported the fraud. I recognise the payments to O Ltd originated  from Mr Ws savings  account and the 
interest rate applicable  to that account was much lower.  But this money had only been in Mr Ws savings account 
for a short term before he began to make payments to O Ltd. And Mr W had only intended to invest his funds with 
O Ltd over a short term and had planned to use them  to repay the debt on a property. Given  the average costs  of 
borrowing over time and the financial difficulty the loss of his life savings  left him in, it has long been our 
approach that this is a suitable rate to compensate for being deprived of the funds and I am satisfied it is fair to 
apply it in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
My Provisional  Decision 
For the above reasons,  I intend to uphold this complaint  about Lloyds Bank PLC  and I would  provisionally  
require the bank to:
Refund all the payments  made to O Ltd (totalling  £91,000).
Ref: DRN60408588Pay interest to Mr W on the above  sums,  at an annual rate of 8% simple,  from the date Mr W reported 
the fraud, to the date of settlement. If Lloyds is required to deduct tax from the interest it should send  Mr 
W a tax deduction certificate so he can claim  it back from HMRC if appropriate.
Pay an additional £300 compensation to Mr W. 
Refund any overdraft interest and charges applied to Mr Ws account from the date he reported the 
fraud to Lloyds  to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse  data that may have been recorded  against Mr Ws credit file as a result of him 
exceeding his overdraft limit from the date he reported the fraud to Lloyds.   
Ref: DRN6040858