K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Coventry Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business  as Coventry  in my decision. 
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy in 1998.  They paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Due to the time thats passed since this policy was sold, theres some uncertainty  about how 
it was sold. It seems  that Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage in 1996 but didnt  take PPI at 
that point. Coventry  has shown us evidence that the PPI started in 1998   separate  to any 
borrowing. Ive considered that the policy both covered Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H have said that they think they took the PPI out online. Coventry isnt sure how 
the PPI was taken  out but have  said that in 1998  a mail shot  was sent to all Coventry 
customers offering PPI.
Whilst I havent seen  any evidence to dispute  what Mr and Mrs H have said about the PPI 
being sold online, Ive also considered that this would  mean  Mr and Mrs H applied  
completely separately, solely for PPI, through an online application.  Ive kept all of this in 
mind when coming to my decision.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because:
Although Mr and Mrs H have said that PPI was added without their knowledge, Ive 
not seen evidence to support what theyve said. I say this because:
oThe PPI was added some time after theyd taken out a mortgage. So I think  that 
Mr and Mrs H would  reasonably have been aware  that it was optional, separate  
to and not a condition of their mortgage;
oCoventry have shown us evidence that a separate form would have to be signed  
by Mr and Mrs H to set up the direct debit  payment for the PPI; and
oIf PPI had been added without their knowledge, I think that Mr and Mrs H would 
quite reasonably have questioned why they were paying for it when it appeared 
separately as a direct debit on their mortgage  statements. But I havent seen 
evidence that they did and the PPI remained in place for some time after it was 
taken out.
Ref: DRN69390882On balance I think its more likely  than not that Coventry made Mr and Mrs H aware  that 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they chose to take it. 
Both parties agree that Coventry didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H - so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for them. But Coventry  did have to give Mr and Mrs H good 
enough information so that they could decide whether or not the policy  was right for them 
and if they wanted  to take the PPI. 
As I havent seen  how the information about the PPI was presented,  Ive assumed that 
some of the information couldve been clearer. For example, Coventry  couldve 
explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I think  Mr and Mrs H 
would still have  bought it. I say this because;  based on Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances it 
seems that they were  both eligible for the policy and not affected by any of the main  
limitations or exclusions.
Ive also considered their existing means,  but I still think that Mr and Mrs H could  have 
found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI policy could have paid out for longer 
than Mr and Mrs Hs sick pay entitlement would have lasted, and although  theyve told us 
they had a substantial amount of savings,  theyve not provided  any supporting evidence 
of the savings on at least  three occasions  when  our Service has asked.  So I cant fairly 
place the weight that Mr and Mrs H may have wanted me to on their savings.
Ive also noted  the other  means  that Mr and Mrs H have told us about, for example a 
death in service benefit, life and critical illness insurance. But, in my opinion, these arent 
directly comparable to PPI. I say this because the PPI would potentially benefit Mr and 
Mrs H if they were  made unemployed or unwell and unable to work. The other means  
described would only benefit them or their estate in the unfortunate event of either Mr or 
Mrs H dying or being diagnosed with a serious  illness.
The PPI would also have  paid out in addition to any redundancy entitlement  that Mrs H 
had and for longer. Although Mr and Mrs Hs families may have wanted to help them  
make their repayments, circumstances can change  and they may not have been in a 
position to help when needed. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs comments, including what  theyve said about  not 
taking PPI on later borrowing when their circumstances  were  different and they had less 
existing means through their employers. But Im only considering this sale and their 
circumstances at the time of taking PPI in 1998   not any decision made at a later date 
about whether  or not to take PPI. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6939088