K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a loan PPI policy taken out in 1990. The policy was taken out when 
Mr and Mrs T were  applying for a loan. The policy provided Mrs T with cover  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. It also provided both Mr and Mrs T with cover that would repay 
the outstanding loan if one of them died. The monthly cost of the policy was £14.92 and the 
monthly benefit was the amount of the loan repayment. This would  have been  paid for up to 
12 months for each  claim.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. Nationwide  disagreed  with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
The main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Nationwide gave  any advice  or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ts needs?
-Did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs T the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs T are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs T say they didnt need the PPI as they both had employment benefits,  and were 
in good health. Mrs T says also that she was led to believe shed be more  likely to get the 
loan if she and Mr T bought PPI. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to give us any detail about the actual sale, which  took place a 
long time ago. But Mr and Mrs T gave us a copy of their original loan agreement. Theres no 
mention of PPI on that form, so also no indication that Mr and Mrs T knew they could have 
the loan without it. 
Ref: DRN64111192Nationwide has referred us to other loan documents it used which do show  details of PPI  
and that information is headed  optional insurance. It says this supports its argument that it 
always sold PPI as an optional extra. But those  documents are from a later date  and the 
original we have  does not contain any information that the PPI was optional.
Ive also seen a loan statement from 1991.  The monthly payment for PPI is shown on that 
statement  but again theres no mention that this was an optional extra.
Overall I dont think Nationwide has done enough  to show me it didnt mis-sell  this policy.
I think Mr and Mrs T lost out as a result  of Nationwides  failings in this case. 
what the business should  do to put things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy stopped a long time ago when the loan was repaid. So Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs T made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs T a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr 
and Mrs T compensation in accordance  with the calculation of redress  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6411119