K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In June 2006, Mr and Mrs S applied  for a joint mortgage with Nationwide. Nationwide also 
sold them  a regular  premium PPI policy. This policy  covered  the repayments on their loan for 
up to twelve months if Mr S wasnt able to work  because of an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. The policy provided this cover free for the first three months.  
In September  2006, when this free period was coming to an end, Mr and Mrs S wrote to 
Nationwide asking for a change  to be made  to the policy. In this letter they confirmed that 
they still only wanted cover for Mr S, but they asked  for the amount of cover to be reduced to 
£500 and for the benefit period to be extended to twenty four months.  These changes  meant 
that the monthly premium payable for the PPI from October 2006 was £34.95.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs S say that they were given unsuitable advice from the Nationwide  representative 
they met about  the PPI cover they should  take to protect their mortgage repayments. But 
they havent suggested that they werent aware  that they had a choice about  taking  this 
cover or that they didnt agree to it. And from the paperwork Ive seen that was produced at 
the time,  I think that Nationwide  made  it clear  to them that the PPI was optional and didnt 
need to be taken to secure their mortgage.  The fact that they chose to keep the PPI policy 
after the free period ended also makes  me think that they are likely to have actively decided 
to take it, knowing  they could  choose not to do so.
Nationwide says that no advice would have  been given to Mr and Mrs S about taking PPI to 
protect their mortgage. And from my knowledge  of Nationwides  standard sales  practices at 
around this time, I would have expected this to have been the case. Ive thought carefully  
about what Mr and Mrs S have said about the sales representative they saw advising them 
to take out single PPI cover for Mr S alone  because Mrs S had a more  secure  job. They  say 
this was unsuitable advice because Mrs S was the much higher earner at the time and they 
could still have managed their mortgage repayments  if Mr S had been unable  to work. 
I accept that its possible  that the Nationwide representative Mr and Mrs S met with did 
depart from the Nationwides normal  practice  and recommended PPI cover  to them, based 
on their knowledge  of Mr and Mrs S circumstances  at the time. But I have to bear in mind  
that this sale took place  well over ten years ago. Memories of what was said at such  
meetings do tend to fade with time.  And the changes that Mr and Mrs S asked to be made to 
Ref: DRN61951522their policy after the three  month free period ended make me think  that they had a relatively 
good understanding of the insurance they had taken and had thought about the type of 
cover they needed  given  their circumstances at the time. In the letter to Nationwide  they 
wrote:
Please arrange  cover for twenty  four months  at £500 for Accident,  sickness and 
Unemployment for just Mr S with effect from 1st October 2006
I dont think its likely  that, only three months after the PPI sale,  they would have specifically 
asked for cover to be arranged for just Mr S if they hadnt previously decided that this was 
the cover  they needed taking account  of their own circumstances at the time of the sale.
So having  carefully considered all the evidence available to me, I dont think its most likely 
that Nationwide advised them to take the PPI cover when the sale took place. I think its 
more likely that they decided, themselves, that this was the cover they wanted and chose to 
take. But I can understand  why they may not be able to recall this now.
As I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs S, it didnt need to 
make sure it was suitable for them. But it did still need to ensure that it gave  them enough 
information about the policy for them to decide if they wanted to take it. I dont know  what  
information was given to Mr and Mrs S at their meeting with Nationwide  when they agreed  to 
take the policy. And its possible  that the information  they received could have been better 
than it was. But I dont  think that better information would have changed  their minds about 
taking out this cover. I say this because:
Mr S appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Mr and Mrs S say they didnt need  the cover  because Mr S was eligible for sick pay and 
had some savings through his employers scheme. They also say that Mr S had a 
significant financial interest in another property  which could have been realised if hed 
been unable  to work. And they say that Mr S income wasnt  needed to cover the 
monthly mortgage repayments  these could have been covered by Mrs S alone if Mr S 
was unable to work.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs S have said. But this hasnt persuaded me that the 
cover wouldnt  have  been useful to them. The cover  could have lasted for longer than 
Mr and Mrs S could  have relied on Mr S sick pay and savings  lasting. And I dont think  
relying on a financial  interest in a property would have given them  the same level of 
security as the policy. 
A mortgage is a big financial  commitment, where  ones  home  is potentially  at risk if the 
monthly repayments cant be made. So although Mr S salary would appear to have been 
lower than Mrs Ss salary at the time of the sale,  it still looks  like it represented a 
significant part of the total income  they had available to make their mortgage  
repayments. And Mr and Mrs S chose  to take out the policy  and to retain cover  for Mr S 
when the policys  free period ended, which makes me think they wanted this type of 
protection. So having taken careful account of all the information  available to me, I think 
that Mr and Mrs S would have valued the extra security that the policy gave them  if 
things went wrong.
Ref: DRN61951523Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs S. And as the premiums 
were paid for monthly,  it could have been cancelled if it no longer met their needs.
Ive thought about all the points which Mr and Mrs S have made  in response to our 
adjudicators view, but I still dont think that Mr and Mrs S have lost out by anything that 
Nationwide might have  done wrong  when it sold them this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint about Nationwide  
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 September 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6195152