K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained about Santander UK Plcs  delays in processing a large
international payment. This meant  that they lost money  on the exchange rate, and had a
great deal of stress.
background
Mr and Mrs S wanted to send an international payment  of around £220,000 to their daughter
abroad, for the purchase of her first property. They hadnt made  an international transfer
before, and during the couple of weeks before they wanted to make  the transfer, they asked
their local branch, and the Santander  phone  enquiry  line, how to do this.
On 25 October 2018, Mrs S rang Santander at around 10.30am, and said she wanted to
make an international  payment. She went through security, and the adviser  asked her if she
wanted to send the payment in pounds or in the recipient  currency.  Mrs S asked what
difference that made about the exchange  rate. The adviser  said that his colleague in
international would be able to tell her the rate, but if Santander exchanged it, the colleague
would be able to tell Mrs S Santanders  exchange  rate. But if it was sent in pounds, Mrs S
would have to check with the receiving  bank about the rate. Mrs S said that if the payment
was going to take four days to clear and the receiving bank did the exchange then, it would
be gambling on what the rate would be. So Mrs S decided not to send  the payment in
pounds but in the recipient currency. Finally,  the adviser asked Mrs S to confirm her mobile
and home  landline numbers, which she did.
Mrs S was then put through to an adviser in the international team.  During the handover, the
second adviser asked  the first if hed checked  the phone number. He confirmed that he had.
The international adviser told Mrs S that there would be a £25 charge, and that the payment
would  take up to four working days to reach  [sic], subject to security checks and how
quickly the beneficiary bank apply the funds." The adviser also told Mrs S that the payment
would go through  a middle bank, who might  take a fee along the way. Mrs S hadnt been told
this before, and asked  how much this would be, and was given an "indication" figure for this
fee.
Mrs S provided the necessary details to make the payment, and asked what  the rate would
be. The adviser said Weve got the rate as 1.8062 as an indication. Is that ok?" Mrs S
agreed. The adviser went on to say  As well you will get a call back on your phone ending
[last three  digits of mobile number], asking you to confirm the reason  for your call to the
bank. You just need to state  its for an international payment." Mrs S said "yes. "
The adviser checked that Mrs S wanted  to go ahead, and she confirmed she did. The
adviser said Well get a call back arranged  as soon as we can, and youll  also get a
confirmation in the post."
At 3 pm, Santander rang Mrs Ss mobile.  It wasnt answered. The bank made four further
attempts to contact  Mrs S in the next few minutes. It rang a sixth time at around 3.30 pm and
left a message  asking  Mrs S to ring back.
Mrs S rang Santander back at around  5.20pm, saying the mobile signal where  she lived was
very poor. Santander  told Mrs S that the transfer had been declined,  and it asked her to go
to a local branch  with identification. Mrs S was unhappy about  this, because it was too late to
go to a branch,  and also the exchange rate had worsened since  the 1 pm cut-off  time.
Ref: DRN66442732Mrs S went  to the branch the next day and completed the transfer. As a result of the
movement in the exchange rate, Mr and Mrs S paid around £1,500  more,  to ensure their
daughter received the amount they wanted  her to have.
While at the branch,  Mrs S talked to staff there  about the fact that Santander hadnt  phoned
her until after the 1pm cut-off. She said they told her that it was because there were a lot of
transfer requests  and Santander only had low numbers of security  check  staff at the relevant
department.
Mrs S complained. She said that shed spoken  to her local branch and Santanders  phone
enquiry team  before the transfer. Shed  been  told that the rate depended on the time of
transfer and was subject to a £25 charge, and that the transfer had to be done  before 1pm to
confirm the rate. But Mrs S said that at no point had she been  warned that there might  be
additional security  checks which would mean  shed  have  to do the transfer in a branch. She
said that if shed  been told, shed have gone to the branch  instead  of relying on a phone
request to do the transfer. Instead,  Santander  hadnt  attempted to contact her until after the
1 pm cut-off for the exchange rate.
Santander didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. It said that:
-the bank couldnt know in advance  which transfers would need  extra  security  and
would mean  the account holder had to go to a branch. It said that extra security could
be requested on any transfer at any time,  and depended on factors  such as whether
a payment had been made  to the mandate before, the amount being transferred, or
other reasons. But it said it accepted the feedback;
- Santander had tried to call Mrs H six times  before  Mrs H rang back  at around
5.20pm. Although this had been to ask her to go to a branch, Santander believed it
had made  sufficient attempts to contact her. It confirmed it had used her mobile
rather than landline  because this what was set up on the account as the contact
number;
-it apologised if branch staff had said that Santander didnt have a lot of staff to review
transfers and it said that it worked  very hard to ensure it completed and reviewed
requests as efficiently  and quickly  as possible.
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied and complained to this service. They set out what  had
happened, and said that at no point had they been  told that further  security  checks  could
result in the transaction not being processed and having to go to a branch with additional
identification. They said that if theyd been  told before, or during,  the transaction,  theyd have
gone into the branch that morning instead.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. He said that banks have fraud
prevention systems in place to protect their customers and themselves, and quoted  part of
section 6.6 of the account terms and conditions. This said: "We can refuse any payment
instruction if we reasonably suspect it relates  to fraud... If we refuse to allow a withdrawal or
payment from your account  we will tell you., by the end of the next working  day after the day
we receive your payment instruction."
He noted that Santander  had tried to contact Mrs S on the same day that the payment was
held up, which he thought  was reasonable.
Ref: DRN66442733Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. They said:
-theyd had no prior information  or advice that extra security checks meant the
transaction might not take place, despite  having  asked  about the process  several
times both in branch and on the phone.  If theyd  been told, theyd have gone to the
branch in the first place; 
-by the time Santander first tried to get in touch with Mrs S, it was already after the
1pm deadline  for the transaction to go through that day;
-Mrs S said shed  been to her branch  again  recently, and made a general enquiry
about international transfers. Shed specifically asked if she might  be told she had to
go into a branch to confirm a transfer,  and the Santander employee said no. Mrs S
said this proved that Santander wasnt advising customers  correctly.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
I understood that Mr and Mrs S had been very upset  by what happened.  This was a
large and important payment for them.  Their  daughter was living  abroad and bidding  at
auction on her first home,  and property transactions are always  stressful.  Mr and Mrs S
has also told us that the amount involved was a significant  amount of money for them.  And
I recognises that they made multiple attempts to find out the process before making the
payment.
There are many variables involved in an international payment. Banks need to ensure that a
customer is fully appraised of all relevant factors before making  a transfer. This is usually
done through the terms and conditions,  but here, the information Mrs S was given over the
phone prior to the payment  is relevant  too.
Terms and conditions
I looked first at the terms and conditions for Mr and Mrs Ss account. There are general
sections, including  section  6.6, which Ive set out above as quoted  by the adjudicator. That 
section is about  refusing  a payment instruction  if the bank reasonably suspects fraud.
There is also a separate  section, 2F, which relates specifically to the terms and conditions
for international payments.  Section  2F sets out the cut-off times for international payments.
These are stated as:
- 4.30pm in a branch;
- 1 pm via the contact centre;
- 3 pm online.
This section  also says "we will be deemed  to have received your payment instruction at the 
time that we actually  receive it and have  completed our security  checks." And it also says  
The exchange rate to be used will be determined by our current  exchange rate on the day 
we process the payment out of your account.  We will provide you with information  about the
exchange rate and the amount of foreign currency for that payment after your account has
Ref: DRN66442734been debited."
Mrs S made her phone call at 10.30, which was before the 1pm cut-off time for contact
centre payments.  But the important section is "we will be deemed to have received your
payment instruction at the time that we actually receive it and have completed our security
checks." Banks are entitled - and indeed required - to conduct  robust  security  measures,  to
protect both the bank  and the customer.  This means  that Santander was entitled  to carry out
security checks, if necessary beyond the 1pm cut-off time for Mr and Mrs S to get that days
exchange rate.
I went on to consider whether this was satisfactorily communicated  to Mr and Mrs S.
Communication to Mrs S
I recognised that Mrs S made  several  enquiries about the payment before 25 October, which
was understandable  for a large payment. There was no record of what Mrs S was told on 
these occasions,  but Mrs S has been  clear and consistent about what she was and wasnt  
told before  25 October. I went on to listen to the call recordings from 25 October  when Mrs S
rang to make the payment.
The issues  for me to consider were  whether  Mrs S was told or should have known:
-that security meant the payment might be aborted;
The international adviser told Mrs S that the payment "would take up to four working days  to
reach [sic], subject to security checks and how quickly the beneficiary  bank apply  the funds."
So security  was mentioned. And it would be reasonable for any customer to realise that it
was in everyones interest for robust security checks to be carried  out, for such  a large
payment.
But security  was raised in the context of how quickly it would reach Mr and Mrs Ss
daughters account  abroad.  Thats not the complaint here. The issue is the impact of the
delay on the exchange rate.
-that she might not get the exchange  rate quoted  to her on 25 October;
When the adviser gave  Mrs S a figure for the exchange rate, she said Weve got the rate as
1.8062 as an indication. Is that ok?" So Santander  did say that the rate was an "indication",
but didnt give any further explanation of what it meant by that. It asked if that was ok, and
Mrs S accepted it. The adviser  didnt say that Mr and Mrs S might not get that rate if security
checks delayed the payment.  There was also no set script about the exchange rate - only
one about not making  payments if asked to do so by a suspicious third party.  The payment
was a one-off  large transaction for Mr and Mrs S, who werent experienced at making regular
international payments. Theyd been told that the cut-off time was 1pm, and Mrs S was
making the call before  that time. So I found  that Santander didnt sufficiently explain that Mrs 
S might not get the rate quoted in the circumstances here.
I also noted that in the first part of the call, with the general bank adviser,  Mrs S had
discussed with the adviser whether to exchange  the payment at Santanders rate and send it
in the currency  where  her daughter was living, or whether  to send it in pounds. As Ive set
out above, Mrs S described that latter as a "gamble" and opted for what she felt was the
less risky option. In other words, she wanted  certainty about  the rate, and I considered  that
Ref: DRN66442735Mrs S, who asked  a number of questions  along  the way, would have  asked more  questions if
the word "indicative" had made her realise  that the rate she was told wasnt  certain.
-that she might have to go to the branch.
There was no evidence  that Mrs S was told at any point that she might  have  to go to a 
branch after her call to the contact centre  to make the payment.
So although  Santander had the right to conduct  security checks, I found that it didnt 
effectively communicate  to Mrs S that this might  have  a significant impact  on the exchange 
rate, or that she might have to go to the branch anyway. And although the account  terms 
and conditions applied,  I thought it would  have been  fair for the call to remind Mrs S of these, 
as they affected  security  and possible delay. Mr and Mrs S were long-term customers  and 
probably hadnt read the terms and conditions  very recently, if at all. It might not be 
Santanders policy to give this level of detail for every payment thats made  in this way, but I 
think here, it would  have been  fair for it to have done so.
What difference  did this make?
I considered it was likely that, even  if Santander  had fully warned Mrs S about possible 
security delays, and possible exchange rate movements, Mr and Mrs S would have  decided  
to go ahead with their payment anyway.
But I did think that in these circumstances Mrs S would have opted to go to the branch to
make the payment. The branch cut-off time was significantly later,  at 4.30pm. And she was
eventually told she had to go to a branch anyway. Of course, the exchange rate might have
moved in favour of sterling, rather than against  it, so the delay  might  have benefited
Mr and Mrs S. But the conversation about  sending the payment in pounds or the foreign
currency indicated that Mr and Mrs S preferred certainty.
I asked Santander  what the reason was for the security delay,  but it said that it no longer had
a record, because it was a long time ago. I considered that the amount involved, and the fact 
Santander was always entitled to make  checks like the ones it did here, meant that the 
security issue  was always likely to have  come up. And it always would have occurred after 
Mrs S made the transaction  - either on the phone at 10.30 or if she went to the branch, 
which would have been after this. So I then had to decide what  would have been more likely  
than not to have  happened on balance of the information and evidence  I had. 
Here, there was a difficulty  because  Mrs S didnt answer her phone  when Santander rang 
her back  at 3pm. If shed  tried to make  the payment in a branch, this would still have  been  
within the branch  cut-off  time of 4.30pm. But Mrs S didnt ring Santander back  until 5.20 pm 
when the branch would  have been closed.
In the call with the international  adviser, one thing that was very clear was that Santander
would ring Mrs S, on her mobile, about the payment. This was a necessary part of the
process, even if the payment had gone  through without security problems. So I considered
Mrs S should have expected that call before 1pm, and it would be reasonable to expect her
to have chased this when  it didnt  happen.  I noted  that Mrs S had given different reasons 
why she didnt pick up Santanders calls from 3pm onwards. She told Santander that mobile
reception was poor, but in her complaint  to this service she said she and her husband  had
gone out at 3pm for a prior appointment, returning  at 4.30pm.
Ref: DRN66442736Mrs S also said that Santander  should  have tried her landline.  Santander  did have this
number - it was checked by the first adviser - but the call with the international adviser is
very clear that the mobile number, which was checked, would be used. If that wasnt
suitable, its reasonable to expect Mrs S to have said so at that point.
All this meant that, if Santander had communicated the risks clearly, I considered Mrs S 
would have gone to a branch instead. But as the same security issue would probably still 
have arisen, the transaction still wouldnt have  gone through  by the 4.30pm deadline  for that 
days exchange rate, because  Mrs S didnt answer  her mobile.
So I found that:
-Santander was entitled to conduct security checks. These might take longer and
mean the payment wouldnt go through that day;
-Santander didnt  communicate to Mr and Mrs S that the extra security checks might
mean delay  including a different exchange  rate, or that they might  be required to go
to a branch to complete  security issues;
-If it had done  so, I accepted that Mrs S would have gone  to a branch instead,  with the
longer cut-off time of 4.30pm.  But ultimately  that wouldnt have meant the transaction
would have gone through at that days rate, because Mrs S didnt answer  her phone,
on the agreed number,  between  3pm when the security issue was identified, and
4.30pm.
This meant that I didnt consider Santander  needed to reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the fact
that their transaction didnt go through on the exchange rate quoted on 25 October.
But I considered  that Santander provided poor customer service. In the phone call to make  
the payment,  Santander didnt communicate that there might  be extra security checks  which
would mean  the transaction might  be aborted or delayed with a potentially  significant impact
on the exchange rate; or that Mr and Mrs S might  be required to go into a branch  to provide
further identification. I also noted  that Mrs S had previously  been to a branch and made  
phone calls about the process,  before  the date when she wanted  to make the actual 
payment. And on none of those occasions had she been told it might  not be possible to 
complete the transaction over the phone  but would have to go to a branch. It would have 
been frustrating  to have done  this preparatory  work  to try to ensure things went smoothly, 
only to find that there was a different requirement from what shed been  told. And when Mrs 
S was told that shed  have to go to a branch,  the adviser wasnt able to tell her why this was 
needed. He tried to be helpful, but said the international team  wouldnt tell him the reason.  
This would have been an additional frustration for Mrs S.
So I considered that Santander should pay Mr and Mrs S £300 compensation for the distress
and inconvenience  caused by customer service  issues.
responses to my provisional  decision
Santander said it had nothing to add.
Mr and Mrs S said that they had no additional  information, but could only reiterate their  
frustration and dissatisfaction at the lack of pre transaction security procedure  information. 
They said that no members of staff had advised  them that, by arranging  it over the 
Ref: DRN66442737telephone, additional security could  result in the transaction not going through  unless  they  
attended the branch. This was despite  the fact that staff  were aware of the large  amount. Mr 
and Mrs S pointed out that it wasnt just a case of confirming  the request, it was aborted and 
theyd had to go through  the whole  process  in branch. They  believe that any financial 
institution should advise accordingly.
Mr and Mrs S said that they were,  however, grateful  for the compensation offer of £300 
which would go towards offsetting the loss of £1500.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes considering Mr and Mrs Ss 
response to the provisional decision.
I do understand Mr and Mrs Ss frustration  and dissatisfaction at what happened. As Ive set 
out above, I consider there  was poor customer service by Santander. 
But I also consider  that whatever the additional  security issue was, it was always likely to 
have come up, whether the transaction  had been  started by phone  or in the branch. 
Santander was clear that there would be a call back about the transaction.  And as Mrs S 
wasnt able to answer her phone at the relevant time, I consider the transaction still wouldnt 
have gone through by the 4.30pm deadline  for that days exchange rate.
So I consider that my provisional decision was fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Santander UK PIc to pay Mr 
and Mrs S £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by its customer  
service issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6644273