K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited refused to pay his motor  insurance  
claim.   
For ease reference  to Admiral includes its agents.
background
Mr R is represented by his son Mr H, who is a named driver on this insurance  policy.   
In September  2018, Mr H called Admiral to report the theft of Mr Rs car. Mr H explained that 
he was attacked  whilst  alone and parked up in the car.  After  which  the car was stolen by the 
assailants. This type of theft is often  referred to as car-jacking. 
Admiral later spoke to Mr H several  times about  the incident and the claim.  Admiral also 
spoke to Mr R a number  of times to discuss matters related to the claim.   
Admiral instructed an investigator to interview Mr R and Mr H. The investigator also took 
screenshots from Mr Hs telephone. 
Admiral later wrote to Mr R in February 2019  and explained that it believed he and Mr H had 
deliberately attempted to mislead it about  what had happened in relation  to the theft and 
purchase of the car. It added that without a satisfactory explanation, it would have no option 
other than to refuse the claim. In doing so, Admiral referenced the fraud condition of Mr Rs 
policy. 
Mr R complained to Admiral about its decision to refuse the claim, the time it had taken to 
deal with the matter and about the service he had received. Admiral upheld  Mr Rs complaint  
about the time it had taken to investigate  the matter and its service. But it didnt  uphold  
Mr Rs complaint about his claim being  refused. 
Mr R brought his complaint about the claim being refused to us. Our Investigator  didnt think  
Admiral had done anything wrong.  Mr R didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.    
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done that, Ive decided  not to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint   Ill explain why. 
Admiral says there are many discrepancies in the version of events surrounding the theft 
and the purchase  of the car. And because  of this it cant believe  what  it has been told. 
Ive carefully looked at Admirals internal file notes  which  amongst other things detail the 
conversations it had with both Mr R and Mr H. Ive also looked at the Police report, 
investigators report and Mr R and Mr Hs signed statements. Having done that Im satisfied 
there are a number of material discrepancies.  Ill summarise some of the key points here: 
Theft of the car 
Ref: DRN65682802Mr H initially  told Admiral the car was stolen  between  1am and 2am.  The following 
day he said the incident took place  between 12am and 1am. 
Police report shows they were not contacted until 3:47am. Mr H told them  the theft 
happened around one hour before. 
Mr H told the Police he had woken up early  hours, and as he wanted some  food he 
drove to the area the incident took place for a take-away. Mr H later told Admiral  that 
he was out with friends in the area to watch a boxing match before leaving alone to 
get some  food. 
Mr H has said that he didnt call the Police  straight away as he dropped his phone  
when fleeing from the assailants and it stopped working temporarily. Mr H advised 
Admiral he called  the Police from his phone and that he tried to call a friend who lived 
in that area. Screenshots from his phone  do not show he called 999 nor that he 
attempted to call anyone  around  that time  
Mr H says he was parked up in the car when  the assault and subsequent theft 
occurred. Mr R says he was told by Mr H that he was driving around and when being 
beeped at, he stopped
The police report says that Mr H keeps changing his story  but it doesnt give any 
specific detail as to what exactly  this was 
Purchase of the car 
Mr R told Admirals investigator  that Mr H had spotted the car was for sale outside a 
shop. He adds  that he didnt know the seller, nor had he ever met or spoken  to them
Mr H told Admirals investigator  that the car was bought from a family friend following 
an initial discussion at a family wedding. Mr H says Mr R had known this individual 
for some four to five years
Mr H said a price  was agreed with the seller, and that a deposit had to be paid in the 
next few days.  Mr H says he withdrew some money from the bank and had some  
cash at home. He says Mr R then took the deposit  to the seller after which  Mr R 
raised a substantial amount of money  from his friends and family to pay for it
Mr R says there was substantial cash in the house from a previous car sale,  and 
together with other cash that is a central store  in the home, Mr H paid for the car
In conversations with Admiral both Mr R and Mr H have offered differing views of how 
the purchase of the car was funded. They  have  also given inconsistent  accounts of 
how the funds  were gathered 
Ive looked carefully  at Admirals policy and note what it says about a claim not being paid if 
any part of it is fraudulent, false, exaggerated. and that as a result  the policy  will be 
cancelled or voided. A large part of the inconsistencies Ive mentioned  above cannot  
co-exist, and this in turn raises a strong possibility that parts  of the claim are false.    
So taking into account what  Mr H and Mr R have said about  the car being  stolen and how it 
was purchased, Im persuaded that Admiral have  applied these terms fairly. In saying  this, 
Ive carefully considered  the inconsistencies highlighted above. It follows that Im not going 
to interfere with Admirals decision.  
I note what Mr R has said about  Admiral  placing too much weight on the source of funds to 
purchase the vehicle,  and that it could be being used to unfairly decline the claim. But 
Admiral establishing  proof  of ownership  is a reasonable part of processing the claim.  
Mr R accepts there are inconsistencies  between  himself and Mr H in terms of how the car 
was funded, albeit he calls it a slight clash. He also explains that given the nature of his 
Ref: DRN65682803work its impossible to provide a clear  trail of the funds. That may be the case, but it doesnt 
take away from what are clear and obvious  differences in the accounts given of how the car 
was purchased. 
I further note what Mr R says about  Mr Hs mental  state following the alleged  theft,  and how 
this wouldve  affected his ability to give a clear  and consistent account.  Mr R concedes  that 
there are gaps in Mr Hs testimony,  but the wider picture should be considered in 
determining the claim.  I accept, even if I were to put aside the discrepancies in Mr Hs 
account, that what hes said about the theft would be a very traumatic experience.  But as 
Ive already said, Admiral  hasnt acted unfairly in applying  the terms of its policy.   
For the sake of completeness Ive also considered what Mr Rs said about  Admirals concern 
that Mr H had his car valued on the day he says it was stolen, and about the Police being 
called. But I dont think I need to consider this matter about  the valuation  any further 
because what Ive said above is enough to reach  my decision. 
Id also like to point  out that screenshots  of Mr Hs phone  do not show  he called the Police  
from his own phone  as he says he did. Nor do the screenshots show he called his friend  or 
the sister.  I do however accept the Police were  called and that its report also shows  they 
spoke to a male. So these points dont  change my mind.      
              
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 November  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6568280