K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wont pay the costs hes paid 
out in respect  of an accidental damage  claim under his home  insurance.
background
On 25 August 2018 while Mr M was removing ceiling paper from his lathe and plaster  ceiling 
in preparation  for decoration, part of it collapsed. He made  a claim to Lloyds on 27 August. 
He was told that Lloyds wouldnt pay the claim for the ceiling as it was likely to be due to 
wear and tear. But it would consider  the cleaning of the carpet  and damage to a lamp. Mr M 
decided it wasnt worth proceeding with the claim. He then paid £400 for the area of 
collapsed ceiling to be repaired. By a letter dated 3 September  Lloyds reviewed  the matter  
and advised Mr M that he shouldve  been  told that as he had accidental damage cover  under  
his policy  he was able to make a claim for the ceiling under that part of the policy. It paid him 
£50 for the inconvenience  caused.  It said its claims department  would log the claim and 
contact him.
Mr M asked  for the £400 hed paid out to be reimbursed to him. He pointed out that he could 
have had the whole ceiling replaced,  the lamp  replaced and paid for the carpet  to be 
cleaned. Lloyds agreed to consider the matter if Mr M registered  it as a claim and paid the 
excess. He refused to do so as he didnt  want to pay the excess and was concerned about 
the effect a claim  would have on his premiums. He feels  that Lloyds should  pay him 
damages for his financial loss. 
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Lloyds' position was reasonable, and that 
if he wanted his claim  to proceed  he would have to pay the excess.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view Lloyds has acted reasonably in this case.  I shall explain why.
When Mr M rang up to make a claim,  he was told the damage to the ceiling wasnt covered 
but that he could make  a claim for cleaning the carpet and the damage to his lamp. He 
decided not to make a claim and went ahead with the repairs to his ceiling. Six days later 
Lloyds contacted him to tell him that he could in fact make a claim for the damage to his 
ceiling. I understand  why he wanted to repair his ceiling as soon  as possible but I think that 
Lloyds' advice to him that it could  in fact cover  his claim was made within  a reasonable time. 
For that reason  I think that the £50 paid for giving him the wrong  advice in the first place was 
fair and reasonable.
Lloyds then advised him it would consider the claim but that he would have to pay the 
excess of £100.  Mr M didnt want to do this. But the resolution of this complaint  is to put 
Mr M back in the position he was in in the first place when he called to make a claim. I 
appreciate that he believes the appropriate  repair would have been to have the whole ceiling 
replaced. That may well be the case but he cant expect  Lloyds  to deal with his claim or 
reimburse him unless  he's prepared to make  a claim. And Lloyds offered to send out a 
contractor to review the damage which Mr M declined. If hes concerned about the effect on 
Ref: DRN65310882his premiums then he doesnt  have to go ahead.  But it wouldnt be reasonable for Lloyds to 
pay for the damage  without registering the claim.
As I think  that Lloyds  has acted reasonably  I wont require it to  take any further action.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6531088