K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains that Advantage Insurance  Company Limited (Advantage) provided  poor 
service whilst processing his motor insurance  claim.  When  I refer to Advantage, that 
includes any contractors or firms  they appointed to handle or process any stage of Mr Ws 
claim, unless  otherwise  stated.
Background
In early February 2019 Mr W was involved in an accident, which he reported immediately. A 
courtesy car was provided whilst his car was fixed and later returned  to him. Mr W raised a 
complaint with reference to the service  he received  from Advantage. He stated they had 
been rude and generally unhelpful. Upholding  the complaint, Advantage  gave Mr W £40 and 
apologised. 
Mr W paid for his insurance by monthly direct debit  but missed a number of direct debit 
payments. Advantage has told us that the last time this happened, the following day they 
sent him a letter explaining they will attempt to collect payment a week  later.  The second 
attempt also failed, and Advantage sent another letter that same day. They  asked Mr W to 
make payment within seven days to avoid his policy cancelling in a weeks  time. 
The day before the policy  was due to be cancelled, Mr W told us that he sent an email to 
Advantage explaining  that he was able to make payment. This email  was sent outside of 
work hours  just before midnight. Advantage has told us they didnt receive  that email.  
Mr Ws policy was then cancelled, due to the missed payment.
Mr W has told us that due to the claim remaining open, and a fault marker being  against his 
name, the policy quotes he received  were  in excess of £5000. He asked Advantage to 
reinstate the policy but was told this wouldnt be possible. When Mr W asked for the marker 
to be removed, it was explained that until all monies had been recovered from the third-party 
insurance provider  (TPI)  this wasnt possible. Mr W then asked to reinsure with Advantage 
with a no fault claim. This was not permitted. Mr W said as he was unable to insure his car, 
he sold it.   
In early May,  the TPI asked Advantage for their bank account details in order  to settle the 
claim in full. After a slight delay in responding to the request,  Advantage provided  their 
details and payment  was received at the end of May. This closed the claim and Advantage  
sent notification  of this to Mr W, on the same day. Around the same time, Mr W brought  his 
complaint to us. In his complaint he said he was unhappy about:
The delays in receiving the courtesy car;
Being  told to delete evidence he had on his mobile phone;
Being  told hed have to pay the excess (although he was told this in error and 
Advantage have  said the excess was waived);
The length of time it took to carry out repairs on his car (3 weeks longer  than 
originally advised); 
The amount  of time he spent liaising  with Advantage  regarding his car; and
Being  unable to work  
It was for these reasons, Mr W told us he wanted  compensation  for loss of time and money. 
It was shortly after this that he sold his car.
Ref: DRN60778792Whilst one of our investigators looked into his complaint, Mr W received letters from 
Advantage stating  he owed  them  £619.49.  When he spoke  to Advantage about this, they 
apologised and gave  him £35. Advantage explained  that until they receive  payment from the 
TPI, Mr W would  continue to receive  chasers  for the outstanding sum of £619.49 regarding 
his insurance cover.  Advantage agreed  to put a stop on further letters  being  sent and 
received full settlement from the TPI, however  Mr W continued  to receive  letters.  
Mr W sent us copies  of the chaser letters Advantage continued  to send him, despite being 
told a stop would be put on them. Our investigator raised this with Advantage. Advantage 
then informed Mr W, that the policy hadnt  been  recalculated since the TPI made payment. 
Upon recalculating the balance, Mr W was informed  that the outstanding balance was 
£106.15. By way of an apology for the service received, Advantage waived the outstanding 
balance in full. Unhappy with this outcome, Mr W asked  us to consider this with his original 
complaint about  the poor customer  service  and explained how the situation had impacted his 
mental health and finances. 
Our investigator explained that the £75 given and Advantage waiving the outstanding 
balance of £106.15 was reasonable. They explained  that Advantage need not do anything  
further. 
Mr W disagreed  with this and stated Advantage had not given due consideration to his 
mental health and unfairly cancelled his policy.  He further stated that Advantages actions  
had resulted in him:
having to sell his car;
being unable  to work; and 
having a reduced  income.
As Mr W remained unhappy, this was passed  to me for a final decision. I considered both 
complaints for ease.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Cancellation of policy
Mr Ws policy was cancelled due to a missed direct debit payment. He has told us that he 
attempted to contact  Advantage  to ask for a 24-hour extension  by email, as their phone lines 
were closed. He has also stated that he was working evenings at the time,  so missed their 
open hours. Advantage have said they didnt receive  this email, however Mr W has shown 
us a copy of it. It is possible that the email wasnt delivered  this does happen on occasion. 
That said,  even if it were  received, I do not think Advantage would have had a duty to 
provide Mr W with a further extension  to make the payment  they had already provided a 
reasonable amount of time. Further, I cannot  see that any attempts were made to make  this 
payment the following  day by Mr W. 
Id expect Advantage to have provided  Mr W with seven days  notice of the cancelation.  
Having seen copies  of the letters sent to Mr W regarding the missed payment, I can see 
Advantage gave  him a couple  of weeks to make contact and make payment. And in these 
letters, it clearly stated  the policy would be cancelled if payment wasnt made. It is not 
unusual for direct debit  agreements to be cancelled when they fail. In any case, Mr W had a 
couple of weeks  to contact Advantage but left it until the night before the policy was due to 
Ref: DRN60778793be cancelled  to attempt  to make contact. Based on this information, Advantage do not 
appear to have cancelled Mr Ws policy unfairly.
Mr W has said he asked  for the policy to be reinstated, but the decision was taken not to do 
so.  In their final response letter to Mr W, Advantage told him that they didnt reinstate his 
policy as he had missed  four direct debit payments previously. Mr W has not disputed this, 
and so this was a reasonable  business  decision taken  by Advantage.   
The sale of Mr Ws car
Mr W has explained that he had to sell his car as he could  not insure it with the fault marker  
against his name. However, the fault marker  was not a result  of the poor customer service 
hed experienced. 
Advantage kept the claim open  until they recovered their outlay  in full. Although Mr W 
received the settlement from the TPI, this doesnt mean that Advantage were able to close 
the claim as they were  yet to recover their outlay (i.e. the payments theyd  made for Mr Ws 
repairs and courtesy car). Mr W is of the view that as Advantage had been corresponding 
with the TPI and had written confirmation  that their insured accepted  full liability, they should 
have reinsured his car with a non-fault  claim against his name. It is industry  practice to 
leave a claim open until it has been settled  in full  including recovery.  
That said,  the TPI requested Advantages bank  account details in early May and Advantage 
received full settlement at the end of May. They sent notification  to Mr W of this on the same  
day. Having considered the timelines  of Advantage providing their bank  account  details, I do 
not think they acted  promptly  enough. And I can see it took them  a couple of weeks  to 
provide their details. They therefore delayed this part of the process  by a couple of weeks.  
However, Mr W sold his car in mid-June, two weeks after the claim was closed and he was 
notified of this. Therefore, he could have reinsured his car as the claim had been settled in 
his favour. I am consequently of the view that Advantage are not responsible for Mr W 
having to sell his car. 
Mr W being unable to work and having  a reduced income
Mr W told us he had to take time off work  as he was without a driveable vehicle, in that he 
could not insure  it. He has also told us that he was self-employed at the time. However, 
Mr W hasnt provided  any evidence  to support this.
We do consider awarding reimbursement for any costs incurred, such  as loss of earnings.  
However, for this to be considered,  Advantage would  have  to have caused the reason for 
Mr W being unable to work. As there  is no evidence to suggest this, I am unable  to consider 
this point any further. 
The impact  on Mr W
Mr W has said that he does not feel Advantage have given due consideration to his mental 
health. He has explained the conditions he has and has said he notified Advantage of this 
during his initial call to them about  his accident. 
Advantage havent been able to locate this call, and so I havent seen any evidence  that 
Mr W did tell them; but in any event,  even if they had been made aware,  I do not think  the 
actions they took were  unreasonable or unfair. I say this because they gave more than 
seven days notice regarding the cancellation  of the policy and Mr W had previously missed 
four direct debits; and they hadnt  cancelled the policy  at that point. I understand that this 
Ref: DRN60778794has been a stressful  time and that Mr W has needed time to recover  from the accident. 
However, his recovery from the accident  is not something Advantage are responsible  for. 
That said,  the additional distress caused as a result of the poor service he received is a 
factor. Mr W has told us that Advantage told him, hed have to pay £400 excess; and 
Advantage has said he was told this in error  and that they then waived  the excess. We have 
asked both parties to clarify this point, but neither party has provided us with further 
information. In the absence  of any evidence to show Mr W actually paid this excess sum, the 
information I do have  would suggest Advantage did say this to Mr W, but I do not believe 
Mr W actually  paid the excess, due to Advantage  saying  they waived it.  
Mr W has said that the Advantage  call handlers agreed that he had been  treated unfairly  and 
therefore requested  that I listen to all the calls between him and Advantage. However, I 
havent done this as Advantage have already accepted that Mr W wasnt  provided  with good 
customer service.  That said, further  consideration has been given to the impact  of the poor 
customer service  he received and in particular whether the compensation considered to be 
reasonable by Advantage, was sufficient.   
Under these specific circumstances, I would expect an offer of compensation to be made. I 
was therefore  pleased to see that this had been done. However, taking into consideration 
the nature  of the poor customer service I do not think Advantage have gone far enough. I 
can see that they compensated for Mr W being told to delete evidence  from his mobile 
phone but didnt compensate any further. 
The reason  for the additional  delays  to the repair of his car were not made clear to Mr W and 
I cannot see that he was provided with sufficiently regular updates  regarding  this. We have 
asked Advantage  to explain  the reasons for the delay to us but unfortunately, we have not 
had a response. In their final response letter, Advantage accepted  theyd incorrectly sent 
letters for a few months to Mr W, stating  he owed them £619.49,  when it was in fact only 
£106.15; and waived this outstanding sum by way of compensation. Taking the impact of all 
of these things  into consideration  I think a further £150, should  be paid to Mr W. 
The response  to my provisional  decision
Advantage had no further comments.
Mr W was content  with my provisional  decision although. In addition,  he explained that 
Advantage had received his email  requesting  a 24-hour extension and that they had 
responded to him. Although he has offered to forward their response  to us, we havent 
received it.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Mr Ws response to it. 
Mr W has attempted to clarify that Advantage did receive his email. However, whether they 
did or didnt,  doesnt  alter my opinion. As I explained  in my provisional decision, even if the 
email had been received, I do not think Advantage would have had a duty to provide  Mr W 
with a further extension to make the payment  they had already provided  a reasonable 
amount of time. Further,  I cannot see that any attempts were made to make  this payment the 
Ref: DRN60778795following day by Mr W. Therefore , for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I 
maintain that it doesnt appear  that Advantage cancelled Mr Ws policy  unfairly. 
In the absence of any further evidence from Advantage, I still think the overall  impact  on 
Mr W was such  that it warrants  an increased offer of compensation
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Advantage Insurance  Company  Limited  to pay Mr W a further £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6077879