K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance  Company Limiteds handling of his 
claim for legal expenses insurance.
Where I refer to DAS, this includes their agents  and claims  handlers. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. In 2016 Mr J made the first of several claims to DAS wanting  to take 
legal action against various parties   all in relation to building work that had gone wrong. 
Mr Rs complaint is about his claim to pursue  his former architect for a breach of contract.  
There have been  several panel  solicitors involved and several legal opinions sought in 
relation to the claim. Ultimately  in 2019,  following a legal opinion DAS withdrew cover  on the 
basis of there not being reasonable prospects of success  which  is a requirement under the 
policy.
Being unhappy with this Mr J complained.  In February 2019 DAS also referred to an 
exclusion in the policy as to why they wouldnt further fund his claim.  Mr  J referred the 
matter to our service and one of our investigators didnt think the complaint should  be 
upheld. 
Our investigator concluded that the policy exclusion had been fairly  applied and that Mr J 
hadnt suffered  a detriment by this not being  highlighted  sooner. He also said that there was 
no basis upon which to ask DAS to fund an expert  report that Mr J thought they should 
cover. Mr J doesnt accept this and so the complaint  has come  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for largely the same reasons. Let me explain why.
Mr Js policy  with DAS provides cover for contract disputes. But like all policies there are 
terms, conditions and limitations to the cover. Mr Js policy lists several exclusions under the 
contract dispute section.  One of these says that Any claim relating to construction work on 
any land, or designing, converting  or extending  any building where  the contract value 
exceeds £5,000 (including VAT) is excluded from cover. 
Policy terms like this are common  in legal expenses insurance and I dont think  this term is 
inherently unfair. DAS are setting out that they dont wish to cover contract disputes that 
relate to building projects with a value over £5,000.  
Mr Js own evidence supports that the contract value of the building  work being  conducted  at 
his home  was greater  than £5,000.  Mr J also says that the dispute he wishes to pursue  is 
against his former architect and as the value of the contract with him is less than £5,000 he 
thinks he should be covered. 
Ive thought carefully about this point.  The key issue is whether Mr Js contract with the 
architect relates to the building contract  (which is valued over £5,000)  I dont think  DAS 
Ref: DRN61975042are being  unreasonable in concluding  that it does. The barristers  opinion from January 2019  
says that the architect delegated work  to the builder and worked  as a contract administrator 
in relation to the building work. I think that having  involvement in the design and oversight of 
the building  project is enough to conclude that the architects work relates to the building 
work itself. The value that matters in relation to the policy is that of the contract for the 
building work  itself, not the contract with the architect. So taking all of this and the reasoning 
already provided  by our investigator into consideration, I think  the exclusion has been fairly 
applied. 
Because I think Mr Js claim is excluded from the policy, I dont think  DAS need to meet  any 
further costs in relation to it. This exclusion would apply irrespective of whether or not the 
claim being made has reasonable prospects of success, so I dont need to consider  that 
point further. But I do think DAS could have identified that this exclusion applied sooner than 
they did. So Ive gone on to consider whether or not this has caused  Mr J any detriment. 
DAS funded the costs of legal support with various  solicitors for an extended  period of time. I 
acknowledge that Mr J was also unhappy with the legal services provided,  but I dont think  
DAS funding this has caused him to be disadvantaged. He received access  to legal services 
that his policy doesnt provide cover for. Some of this legal advice may be of use to Mr J 
should he choose to continue legal  action outside of his insurance policy. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think the fact that they didnt initially  apply the policy  
exclusion, means they cant apply it later, particularly  as proceedings hadnt yet been 
started.
Mr J raised a further point  about  an expert  report that he thinks  one of the panel solicitors  
should have commissioned whilst  his claim was being covered. He points to part of a 
barristers opinion in support  of this. Our investigator  concluded that this isnt something DAS 
were responsible for and I agree. Decisions as to which reports are needed to progress legal 
action would be taken  by the solicitors  involved  not DAS. And whilst the costs of this were 
being met by DAS they arent responsible for this. Neither  are DAS responsible for the 
service provided by panel solicitors. Ive not seen evidence to support that Mr Js claim 
couldnt have  been dealt  with by a panel  solicitor nor that DAS ought  to have done more  in 
relation to Mr Js complaints about  the service hed received  from solicitors.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6197504