K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any paperwork  from Mr Hs sale. I dont think this is 
surprising considering the length  of time thats passed. It has however given us a sample 
credit agreement  from the time Mr Hs policy was sold.  I can see the customer  wouldve 
been given a choice to take the PPI. And theres nothing on the form to suggest the PPI 
was compulsory. So without further  evidence to support what  Mr H has told us, I think its 
more likely that Halifax made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr H says he wouldve received some sick pay at the time the policy  was sold.  He also 
says he had savings  he couldve relied on. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to 
any sick pay he wouldve received  and for up to 12 months if he was unable to work 
because of accident or sickness. It also wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months if he lost 
his job. And having the policy meant  he could  use his savings and other means  to cover 
other necessary  expenses at what couldve been  a difficult time financially. So I think he 
wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr H paid for it. But it appears Halifax has already paid Mr H back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN61985562my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61985563
Ref: DRN6198556