K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP, (UBF), didnt respond  to his request for a 
repayment plan when he got into financial difficulties. He is also unhappy  that UBF provided 
a loan settlement  figure to him on the telephone which was different to (and much higher 
than) the loan balance  amount hed seen on UBFs website.
background
Mr S took out an instalment loan for £400 with UBF on 10 July 2018. The loan was 
repayable by six monthly instalments with a highest instalment amount of £125.38. Mr S 
experienced financial difficulties in late July 2018  and asked UBF for a repayment plan. Mr S 
said that UBF hadnt responded to this request.  Mr S also said that UBF had provided him 
with an inflated  early settlement amount. He had phoned UBF on 31 July 2018 to check  his 
loan balance  and to pay off the loan. He had earlier that day noted online that the loan 
balance was £467.20 and he was concerned when UBF told him on the phone that the loan 
repayment amount  was £538.05. As a result he didnt repay  the loan that day and 
complained about this. He asked for the interest on his account to be frozen and for a fair 
settlement amount.
UBFs final response letter said that it didnt charge interest daily but that the loan interest 
rate of 0.8%  per day was calculated for the full loan period on the principal sum and payable 
regardless of when  the loan was repaid. It also referred to the statutory early settlement 
provisions which provide for an interest rebate to be applied. UBF also said that the figure  
Mr S had seen on its website was a rolling  loan balance and not an early settlement figure.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld  in part. With regard to 
Mr Ss complaint about his request for a repayment  plan, the adjudicator could see evidence 
of UBFs process to address Mr Ss concerns regarding financial difficulty. With regard  to the 
early settlement figure,  he noted that on 31 July 2018 Mr S had phoned UBF and was given 
a settlement figure  on his loan of £538.05. When Mr S queried  this he was told the online 
figure was incorrect which  was why customers were  asked  to phone UBF for a settlement 
figure. The adjudicator  thought UBFs explanation was incorrect and this led Mr S to believe  
he had reasonable grounds  to complain and could have  led to a delay in Mr S fully repaying 
his loan. The adjudicator recommended that UBF should:
 - pay Mr S £50 for the distress  and inconvenience  he had been caused by being given   
incorrect information about his account.
 - calculate  and pay Mr S the difference in interest  had Mr S settled his account  on 
31 July 2018 rather than 28 September 2018. 
 - pay 8% simple interest* on this figure from 28 September 2018  to the date the complaint is 
settled. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to deduct  tax from this interest. UBF should give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax UBF has deducted, if he asks for one.
UBF disagreed and responded to say that it was factually correct  that the balance on the 
web was incorrect. The balance was the account  balance and not the settlement figure. It 
did explain  to Mr C why he needed to phone to obtain a settlement figure. It saw nothing  
unusual in that nor did it see anything wrong in showing  the rolling account balance  as part 
Ref: DRN67776082of Mr Ss account. It said that it would not be possible to display the correct early  settlement 
figure online without  additional functionality because of the regulations around early  
settlement.
UBF also said that it was happy to calculate a refund  of interest had Mr S settled his account  
at the earlier  date but it didnt believe Mr S was entitled to any additional interest at 8% nor 
any payment for distress and inconvenience.
In addition UBF said that it made no claim that the loan balance shown on a customer  log-in 
area was a settlement figure, and that it didnt  give  Mr S incorrect information. It said that 
the information provided by its customer services was the correct figure. Mr S had looked  up 
information on his online log-in area and misinterpreted this.
UBF referred to its loan agreement which said:
Early Repayment:  You are entitled at any time, by giving written  or oral notice to
the Creditor and making  payment to discharge  your indebtedness under this Loan
Agreement in full or in part. You can contact us to give notice as follows:
a. by letter to [UBFs address]
b. by email to [UBFs email address]; or
c. by telephoning us on [UBFs phone number]
UBF also said that the loan agreement didnt  say to refer to the online account. The 
accepted process  for early settlement was for a customer to give notice, and for UBF to 
respond within the required timescale  with a settlement figure.
UBF said that if Mr S had repaid the account when he was quoted  his settlement figure, he 
would have paid £538.05. He then didnt settle  the account until 28 September 2018 when 
he paid it £378.08  (having  already paid it instalments totalling  £247.39)  UBF offered to 
refund £87.42 in respect of the difference in interest  between 31 July 2018 and 
28 September 2018.
Mr S rejected UBFs offer and asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to UBF on 13 January 2020.  I summarise my findings:
Id said that where  things  werent clear, or in dispute, I made my findings on what I thought  
was most likely to be the case. I took into account  the evidence  which  was available  to me 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Id noted that there appeared to be two aspects  to this complaint. I could see that Mr S was 
unhappy that UBF didnt respond  to his request for a repayment plan and that it had 
provided him with an early  settlement figure  which hed believed was incorrect.
Response to request  for a repayment  plan
Id noted that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties. Hed said that hed emailed UBF to 
ask for a repayment  plan. Id seen UBFs email  dated 24 July 2018 which asked  him for 
information about his income,  expenditure and other creditors.  Mr S had replied the same 
Ref: DRN67776083day with this information. Id seen UBFs later email of the same date which  had asked for 
more information  about Mr Ss creditors, amounts  owed and any agreed payment plan. Id 
also seen UBFs email  dated 27 July 2018 which had asked  for Mr Ss payment  proposals. 
Mr S had then phoned UBF on 31 July 2018 to check his loan balance  and to pay off the 
loan. He didnt  ask for a repayment  plan after this and had repaid the loan by instalments on 
2 August 2018,  13 September  2018 and 28 September 2018. From the information Id seen, 
I couldnt see that UBF had acted unreasonably  in its responses to Mr Ss request for a 
repayment plan.  So I didnt propose to uphold this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
Information about early  settlement figure
Id seen a copy  of Mr Ss loan agreement.  This said that the rate of interest charged was a 
fixed flat rate of 0.80% per day on the outstanding principal equating to 292% per annum. 
The agreement also said that the total amount  payable over six monthly instalments was 
£742.92. This represented  £400 credit and interest of £342.92.
Id seen a copy  of the screenshot  from UBFs website  which  Mr S saw on 31 July 2018 
showing a current balance of £467.20  due on 31 July 2018. I could see that this amount was 
in line with the loan agreement interest provisions which  said that a fixed  rate of interest of 
0.80% per day would  be charged per day on the outstanding principal. I could see that 
£67.20 would have been the correct interest  amount charged on £400  (the outstanding 
principal) at a rate of 0.80% per day on 31 July 2018. So I could see why Mr S would have 
been confused when  UBF told him by phone that the early settlement figure was £538.05.
Id also noted  that the provision in the loan agreement about early settlement  shown  above  
referred to the notice  process but not the method of calculation of the early settlement figure. 
Id asked the adjudicator to ask UBF for copies of its web pages  about early settlement and 
the loan balance page to see if there  was a warning that the loan balance figure wasnt  the 
early settlement figure  and that Mr S should contact  UBF about this by phone.  UBF had 
provided this service with copies of the screenshots which  Mr S could potentially have seen. 
It hadnt sent a copy of its loan balance page or its pages about early  settlement. But I had 
seen a screenshot of a page  which told the consumer if he wished to repay his loan early, he 
might be entitled to a rebate of interest and that the consumer should contact it. As we 
hadnt received  any screenshots  or other online information  from UBF to show that the loan 
balance of £467.20 on 31 July 2018 wasnt an accurate loan repayment amount,  I could  see 
why Mr S would have been confused.  
Id also noted  that UBF had said in its final response  letter that the loan interest rate of 0.8% 
per day was calculated  for the full loan period on the principal sum and payable  regardless 
of when the loan was repaid. But this appeared  to differ from the loan agreement provisions 
Id referred to above. 
Id listened to a recording  of the call between Mr S and UBF on 31 July 2018. Mr S said that 
hed wanted to check the balance on his loan and pay it off. UBFs agent had said that the 
settlement figure was £538.05 if the loan had been  paid that day which  would have saved 
him £204.14. Shed also said that interest  wasnt calculated on a daily basis  but over the life 
of the agreement. Mr S had responded to say that it was unfair charging interest over the 
whole loan term and online  it had said that his loan balance  was £438. UBFs agent said that 
the website didnt give an accurate figure  which was why it had asked consumers to contact 
it. Mr S then told UBFs agent that he would complain about  this.
Ref: DRN67776084I could see that Mr S had paid UBF £378.08  on 28 September 2018. Id also noted that hed 
paid instalments of £123.70 and £123.69 in August and September  2018 respectively, which  
was later than the due dates in those months. Hed said that hed paid the remaining balance  
of £378.08 as he didnt want the account  to be defaulted. 
Id also asked the adjudicator to ask Mr S if he could have afforded to repay  £467.20 on 
31 July 2018.  Mr S confirmed that he would have paid £467.20 on 31 July 2018 to UBF but 
hed paid another debt in full instead as he didnt agree with UBFs stance on his complaint.
The question I needed to consider here was what Mr S would  have done  differently when 
hed taken out the loan if hed understood, or been  given better information on, the loan 
agreement and early  repayment terms. Id assumed  that he wasnt expecting  financial  
difficulties at that point.  And as this was his only loan from UBF there didnt seem to be any 
grounds to say that Mr S would have been  expecting to repay it early. 
Overall, I didnt  think there was anything  to suggest that Mr S wouldnt have taken the loan if 
hed known about UBFs early settlement process. And Id no reason to think that UBF 
hadnt calculated  the settlement figure in line with the regulations. Id also noted that Mr S 
had benefitted  from being able to repay  another loan instead of UBFs loan at the point he 
began to dispute the settlement figure. 
On balance, Id thought  UBFs offer to refund the difference in interest had Mr S settled his 
account on 31 July 2018 was reasonable. But Id thought it would also be fair for UBF to pay 
interest at 8% simple* a year on the refunded amount from 28 September  2018  until the date 
of settlement. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr S or UBF my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  UBF to put things right as 
follows:-
UBF should refund Mr S £87.42  being the difference  in interest  between  the amount  
he would  have  needed to repay the loan on 31 July 2018 (calculated  in line with the 
early settlement regulations) and the amounts he later repaid;
UBF should pay Mr S interest  at 8% simple* a year on the refunded amount from 
28 September 2018 to the date of settlement; and
UBF should remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Ss credit  file with 
regard to the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. 
Neither Mr S nor UBF has provided  any further information in response  to my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67776085Given that Mr S and UBF have given  me nothing further to consider, I see no reason  to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require UBF to pay Mr S some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP to:
1.Refund Mr S £87.42  being the difference in interest between  the amount he 
would have needed to repay the loan on 31 July 2018 (calculated in line with the 
early settlement regulations) and the amounts he later repaid;
2.Pay Mr S interest at 8% simple*  a year on the refunded amount from 
28September 2018 to the date of settlement; and
3.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ss credit  file with regard to the 
loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6777608