K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way that their home insurance  claim for water damage 
was dealt with by U K Insurance  Limited.
background
In August  2017  Mr and Mrs M made  a claim to UKI following water  leaking through their 
ceiling after their upstairs neighbour drove a nail through  a pipe. UKI appointed loss 
adjusters who in turn arranged for contractors to repair the ceiling. There was a delay in the 
contractors starting work as they didnt receive  the original instruction. There was also some 
disagreement as to the method of repair  the contractors wanted to replace the whole 
ceiling, whilst the surveyor  appointed by UKI thought only a repair  of the immediate area was 
necessary. Mr and Mrs M were made aware of this. It was explained to them that because  of 
the area abutting a cornice, it couldnt  be skimmed or double  plaster  boarded. The area was 
to be single boarded and the area taped and papered  over.. Mr and Mrs M were assured this 
method would be appropriate.
The works were finished by mid-October.  There were then some delays about  arranging a 
replacement carpet  Mr M took the day off work,  only to find that the carpet had only just 
been checked before sending it out and was faulty,  so the delivery was cancelled. UKI then 
agreed to pay a cash payment instead  of supplying the carpet. And for the issues  with the 
contractor it agreed to pay £150.
Mr and Mrs M raised  a complaint about  all the issues,  in particular UKI had said it would 
recover their £350 excess  from the neighbours insurer, and hadnt taken any action. They 
also felt they shouldnt have had to be involved in the discussions over the method of repair.  
They were  also told they would get a two year guarantee,  and said this was why theyd 
agreed to the repair. This turned out to be just a one year guarantee. 
UKI apologised for the delays and miscommunication over the guarantee. It said that 
although the contractors disputed the method of repair, they were  prepared to do it in 
accordance with the surveyors recommendation. It agreed theyd only been offered a one 
year guarantee, as that was all that their agreement with the contractors allowed for. It was 
prepared to offer them  a further £150.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that UKIs offer was sufficient. But 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this, and further  issues arose over the repayment of the 
excess. They also thought that UKI should  pay the cost of repairing the ceiling properly, 
pointing out that the area had started to crack, as theyd been warned by the contractors 
might happen. However UKI wasnt prepared for the further issues over the recovery to be 
dealt with as part of this complaint.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69702392issues I cant deal with
Mr and Mrs M, quite  understandably,  want their complaint about  the delay in recovery of the 
excess to be dealt  with alongside their other complaints. UKI issued two final response 
letters  the first dated 14 December 2017  and the second 25 January 2018. The first letter 
dealt with delays  and other  issues  to that date.  The second letter just advised that the 
recoveries team would  get in touch with Mr and Mrs M to discuss  recovery.
Unfortunately I cant deal with issues that arose  after the 14 December letter, save  to note 
that UKI had agreed to pursue the recovery of excess  matter further. Before a complaint can 
be considered  by us, the business has to give its formal  response to it, having been  given up 
to eight weeks to resolve  it. Unless the business  agrees  we cant look at the complaint until 
that procedure  has completed. And as UKI hasnt  agreed,  Mr and Mrs M will have to raise 
their further  concerns about the excess recovery with UKI.
delays by the contractors
Mr and Mrs Ms property  was inspected about ten days after the original notification  of the 
claim. Contractors were appointed but there was then some  delay  in them  starting work 
because the original instruction wasnt received. This wasnt  discovered  until 25 September. 
However although there was then a discussion over the method of repair,  the ceiling repair  
was completed by 13 October.
Mr and Mrs M were  then given an appointment for the carpet to be delivered, and Mr M took 
a day off work. On the appointed day the carpet was inspected and found  to be faulty. I 
would have thought this would have been done beforehand and the subsequent cancellation 
must have  caused  disruption and upset to Mr and Mrs M.
no project manager
Mr and Mrs M feel that they had to act as a project manager liaising with the contractors and 
loss adjusters and suppliers. It wouldnt be normal practice to appoint a project manager for 
such a relatively small repair and Mr and Mrs M had to be contacted  to agree choice of 
materials, paint etc. I do think however that they didnt need to be drawn into the discussion 
over the method of repair. The contractors clearly had misgivings  over it, and it appears that 
the method proposed by the surveyor was a trial method. Whilst they were assured the 
method would be appropriate,  the original scope proposed  replacing  the ceiling rather than 
just the small part near the leak. So its understandable that they werent happy and felt 
pressurised into agreeing  it. 
having to dismantle furniture
Mr and Mrs M say they had to remove furniture  from the room,  including the dismantling of 
fitted wardrobes. UKI says Mr M was physically able to do this, and it would only offer help 
with this if the policyholders werent so able. 
As I understand it, the wardrobes were  fitted only  in the sense  that they were attached to 
the wall i.e. no further stripping out or redecoration  or replastering  around the wardrobes was 
needed to put them back. In those circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable to ask 
Mr and Mrs M to dismantle the wardrobes.  
Ref: DRN69702393length of guarantee
Mr and Mrs M were  told the work would be guaranteed for two years. They  agreed for the 
work to go ahead and were then told it would only be guaranteed for one year. I understand 
the contractors normally  offer a two year guarantee  but because  of their agreement with UKI, 
only offer one year under this policy.  I can understand  Mr and Mrs Ms annoyance. All I can 
say is that if the repairs dont last as long as theyd reasonably be expected to, even if thats 
beyond the one year period, Id expect  UKI to deal with them. If Mr and Mrs M had decided 
they werent happy with the one year guarantee, their only option would have been to accept  
a cash settlement. UKI wouldnt have been  responsible for the repairs  if Mr and Mrs M had 
appointed their own contractors.
initial delay in recovery of the excess
Mr  and Mrs M gave  UKI the necessary  information to start the recovery  process on 
1 September.  UKI requested this information again  on 24 September,  then realised it had 
already had it. It wrote to the neighbour on 18 October. There  was a response on 
16 November, at which point UKI wrote  to the neighbour advising it held him responsible and 
asking for a response within  21 days.  No response was received  and no further action was 
taken before 25 January. I think there was an initial delay in starting action and then a further 
delay in taking  any further action having  received the neighbours response. As Ive said,  any 
further delays  after that will have to form a separate complaint.
compensation
UKI has offered  £150 compensation on top of the £150 already paid. Mr and Mrs M have  
told us the £150 compensation was purely for the cancelled carpet delivery. But according to 
UKIs notes,  this was for all issues over the contractors.  I think  it fair to regard the overall 
compensation figure as £300,  £150  for the issues over the contractors and £150 for the 
misinformation over the guarantee and the delay in starting  the recovery  process.  I think  
thats reasonable to compensate for the issues Ive identified. So I wont  require UKI to take 
any further action  in that respect. If Mr and Mrs M want to accept the further £150 offered 
they should contact UKI directly.
In respect of the actual work carried  out, I dont think as it stands, that it is necessary to redo. 
If, as Mr and Mrs M have  told us more recently they think theres some cracking that needs 
to be dealt with, they should contact UKI about  it. As for any further complaints about the 
excess recovery again Mr and Mrs M should  contact UKI.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6970239