K821x#15Complaint
Mrs S has complained about the loans she took out through MYJAR Limited (MYJAR). She 
says the loans were  not affordable and she fell into more and more  debt.  
Background
Mrs S took 6 loans  from MYJAR between July 2016 and September 2018.  A summary of 
Mrs Ss borrowing  is shown  below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
125/07/2016 19/08/2016 1 £150.00 £180.00
230/08/2016 21/09/2016 1 £100.00 £117.00
329/09/2016 21/10/2016 1 £100.00 £117.00
430/11/2016 21/11/2017 12 £525.00 £78.18
526/11/2017 10/09/2018 12 £925.00 £137.10
611/09/2018 outstanding 12 £725.00 £113.22
The adjudicator concluded that due to the overall  pattern  of borrowing, MYJAR should've 
stopped lending to Mrs S from loan 6, as he felt the lending had become unsustainable at 
this point.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 August 2019 explaining why I was thinking of reaching  
a different conclusion to the adjudicator and upholding Mrs Ss complaint in relation to 
loans 1 and 5, as well as loan 6.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness,  I 
have set this out below.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN60625092The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  MYJAR  lent to Mrs S. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  to consumer credit 
providers, such as MYJAR. 
I am not quoting all the specific  regulations  here, because I would expect MYJAR to be 
familiar with these through previous ombudsman decisions, particularly recent  decisions,  
which set these rules out in more detail.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words the assessment  needs  to be consumer-focussed.  It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way.  
Certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include, 
but not limited  to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So MYJAR was required  to establish whether Mrs S could  sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mrs S could 
sustainably make her repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.  
Ref: DRN60625093This is because CONC defines sustainable  as being  without undue  difficulties  and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
So, it follows  that a lender  should  realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably - if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ss complaint. 
MYJAR told us that when  the first loan was taken it asked Mrs S for her income  and 
expenses as well as making adjustments to those  figures using its own internal affordability 
calculations. It also carried out a number of credit  searches. 
I think the checks MYJAR did were proportionate for the first 4 loans. However, I think the 
information it collected for the first loan showed  that loan was not affordable. And Ill explain 
why below:
For the first loan Mrs S declared her income  as £800 per month and I can see MYJAR asked 
for her housing costs  which she told them were  £100. No other expenses have been  
recorded (or have  been recorded  as zero). MYJAR  told us it applied  its own adjustment  for 
other expenses, which  in this situation  came to £436. I can also see from the credit 
searches it carried out that Mrs S had estimated monthly repayments towards unsecured 
debt of £120. From all the information  MYJAR  collected, this left Mrs S with disposable 
income of £144  per month. This was not enough  to meet  the loan repayment of £180. 
MYJAR therefore ought to have realised from the information it gathered,  including any 
adjustments it made before  lending, that loan 1 was not affordable.  So it is for this reason 
that I think MYJAR was wrong to have provided Mrs S with her first loan. 
The information MYJAR gathered and the adjustments it made  was similar for loans 2-4. But 
based on the loan repayments  (which ranged from £78 to £117)  I think MYJAR would have 
found these loans affordable.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mrs S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN60625094Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
There was an emerging pattern between loans 1-4 of Mrs S taking new loans shortly 
after repaying previous ones. I think that by loan 5, MYJAR  ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  regarded  that pattern as established.
From  loan 5 onwards  Mrs S was provided  with a new loan within  days of settling a 
previous one. So MYJAR ought to have  realised it was more  likely than not Mrs S 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances and that Mrs Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed MYJAR. 
Loan 5 was taken out 16 months after Mrs Ss first loan. And it was for over 6 times 
the amount she initially borrowed. 
Over  the 25 month period from loan 1 to loan 6  there were only 57 days  when 
Mrs S was not indebted to MYJAR. Mrs S had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
Loan 6 was due to be repaid over a further  12 months.  By approving  this loan, 
MYJAR was extending Mrs Ss indebtedness  for a further year resulting in 
Mrs S borrowing  short  term loans for over 3 years.
I have also noticed  from the credit  searches  MYJAR carried  out at the time (and therefore 
would have seen  before agreeing loan 5) that the total unsecured  debt Mrs S had had 
increased from £800 at the time of loan 4 to £11,568  by the time she took out loan 5. As a 
responsible lender, I think MYJAR  would have  seen this and not agreed to lend.
I think that Mrs S lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ss indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mrs Ss ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 and 6 as well as loan 1 and MYJAR should put 
things right as set out below.
Ref: DRN60625095Putting things right
I understand there is an outstanding debt with MYJAR, if this is the case, redress  should be 
along the following lines: 
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs S towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance,  not including anything  
MYJAR has already  refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mrs S which were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mrs S originally  made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Mrs S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mrs S having 
made overpayments  then MYJAR should  refund these overpayments  with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MYJAR  should  then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mrs S. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MYJAR  should try to agree an affordable  repayment  plan 
with Mrs S.
E.MYJAR should remove any adverse information it has recorded  on Mrs Ss credit file 
in relation to loan 1. The overall  pattern of Mrs Ss borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means 
any information recorded about  them is adverse, so MYJAR should  remove these 
loans entirely from Mrs Ss credit  file. MYJAR  does not have to remove  any 
outstanding loans from Mrs Ss credit  file until these have been repaid, but MYJAR 
should still remove any adverse  information  recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to deduct tax from this interest. MYJAR should  
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax MYJAR has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mrs Ss complaint as Ive explained above and in 
my provisional decision. I require MYJAR  Limited trading as MYJAR to put things right for 
Mrs S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6062509