K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the level of service provided by RAC Insurance Limited  after a claim 
on his European  roadside assistance insurance  policy. He wants  further compensation and 
an explanation.  
background
Mr Ms car broke down  in Europe and he contacted RAC for assistance.  But he was 
unhappy with the service  it provided.  He said, in short, there was a delay in recovering him, 
that RAC  didnt repatriate his car and he had to pay for this himself.  He said there  were  then 
problems with the cost of this, the service  provided  and further delays. RAC offered Mr M 
£150 compensation for its level of service,  but he was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the initial  
delays werent caused  by RAC. He thought repatriation wasnt provided  immediately by the 
policy. But the car didnt in fact need repairs and so he didnt think RAC was required to pay 
for repatriation by the policy. He considered the further delays and service  issues and he 
thought RACs offer of £150 compensation  for this was reasonable. 
Mr M replied raising concerns about  the delays and their potential  consequences which  were  
averted by his proactive approach. He thought RAC should contribute  towards the 
repatriation. He said his phone calls to RAC  would  show its poor service, but these calls 
werent available.  RAC  replied that Mr Ms actions had prevented it from establishing that his 
car couldn't  be repaired or that repatriation was economical. So it didnt think  it should have 
to contribute to these costs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M summarised his complaint saying he didnt receive the service  hed paid for as he had 
to pay to have  his car transported back to UK. He said he wasnt  told about the service hed 
receive. He said the recovery driver required his assistance to move his car and to provide 
directions. He said there were delays in his recovery home when he reached  UK. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So Ive looked  at Mr Ms 
policy to see what service  should  have been  provided. Mr M paid for the repatriation  himself, 
so I cant consider the level of service provided by this private arrangement  as it wasnt  
made under the policy. So Ill look at the service he received up to the point where  the 
repatriation costs were provided  and then from the point he arrived in UK. 
Mr M said his insurance company had authorised RAC to repatriate his car. But I havent 
seen any evidence to show  this. Mr Ms policy says that in the event of a breakdown,  it 
would provide for roadside repair or towing to a garage. Repatriation is provided after the 
insurer has agreed this and is subject to this being  economical. 
I can see that there was initial confusion about where Mr Ms car had broken down and the 
RACs being able to recover him. RAC  apologised for the delay caused by this confusion. Ill 
consider this further below.   
Ref: DRN63294772RAC then provided  a recovery vehicle, but Mr M said he had to drive his car onto it as the 
driver declined to do this. I dont  doubt this, but I cant see that this caused Mr M any loss as 
it didnt delay his recovery.  RAC  then provided a taxi and hotel  overnight.  
Under the policy terms and conditions, I would expect RAC to then liaise with the insurer 
about making repairs to the car or arranging repatriation. 
But Mr M said he wanted to get home immediately. He said he suggested and agreed to pay 
for a tow back home. RAC  said it provided an estimate of the cost which  didnt include local 
taxes. So the actual price  Mr M paid was higher. I havent been  provided with the phone 
calls where the price was discussed as these calls are no longer available due to local laws.  
So I cant say whether this is correct  or not. 
As it turned out, Mr M said that he was able to drive  his car onto the ferry and then it 
performed well until he sold it some  months later. He said repairs werent required.  Mr Ms 
policy provides for recovery  at the time of breakdown. But the car wasnt  inspected at a 
garage at the time. Repatriation wasnt authorised by the insurer. And so I cant say that 
RAC should have  contributed towards  repairs or arranged repatriation. I think  Mr M arranged  
this outside the policy  terms and conditions  and so I dont require RAC to repay  him for this. 
Once back in UK, Mr M said there were delays  because of a change in recovery truck. He 
said he was promised a recovery vehicle soon but had to wait over two and a half hours. I 
can appreciate this must have been frustrating  and tiring. But Mr M said RAC  offered him a 
taxi home  but he didnt  want  to leave his car and possessions unattended. So I think it did 
respond reasonably  to his concerns at the time.  
RAC agreed  that there  had been delays in the initial recovery and then in the UK when the 
change in recovery truck was required. It offered Mr M £150 compensation for these delays. 
I think thats fair and reasonable  as its in keeping with the level Id award in similar  
circumstances. I dont  require RAC  to increase  its offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6329477