K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly gave him a loan he cant afford 
to pay at a time when  he was vulnerable. 
background
Mr J was given a loan of £500 in December 2017.  The loan was to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £113.28 and it had an APR of 990.1%.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Js complaint. She thought that proportionate  checks 
wouldve stopped  L2G from giving Mr J this loan and so he upheld the complaint. 
L2G disagreed  with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Js complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything  Ive been provided with, Im upholding Mr Js 
complaint. 
Its important to note that this was Mr Js first loan with L2G. And L2G has argued that a 
relatively light touch  income and expenditure assessment was proportionate because  it was 
for a small amount.
But while the amount Mr J borrowed was relatively  small, the interest  rate was extraordinarily 
high. And this meant that the total amount Mr J had to repay  was substantially more  than 
£500. In these circumstances, I dont think that a relatively light touch income and 
expenditure assessment was reasonable and proportionate.  And instead I wouldve 
expected L2G to have verified  at least some of the income and expenditure information 
gathered. 
In my view, if L2G had verified the income  and expenditure information that Mr J provided 
his would more  likely  than not have shown  Mr J was gambling significant  sums of money 
and that he was unlikely to have  the funds available  to make the monthly repayments to this 
loan as and when they fell due. So I think that proportionate checks would more  likely than 
not have shown that Mr J was unable to sustainably repay his loan.   
As L2G is expecting Mr J to pay an extraordinary  amount of interest on a loan that he 
shouldnt have been given, I think that Mr J lost out because of L2Gs  failure  to carry out 
proportionate checks before providing this loan.  This means Im upholding Mr Js complaint 
and L2G needs to put things right.  
Ref: DRN66792382what L2G should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr J, L2G should:
reduce the starting balance on Mr Js loan to £500; and
reduce the new starting balance on Mr Js loan account by the amount of any payments 
Mr J made. Once the new starting  balance wouldve been cleared by Mr Js payments 
so far then any payments, or partial  payments, made after this should be treated as 
overpayments; and
refund any overpayments made if they were  any;
add interest at 8% per year simple  on any overpayments, if they were any, from the 
date they were made to the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit  file if the payments hes 
already made are enough  to have  cleared the new starting  balance;
HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must  give      
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
I would like to remind L2G of its obligation to treat Mr J positively and sympathetically 
should an outstanding balance remain on Mr Js account  after the above is done  and it 
chooses to collect  this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Js complaint.  Loans  2 Go Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6679238