K820x#14Complaint
N, a limited company,  complains that Allianz Insurance  Plc unfairly  declined  its claim for 
falling masonry under its commercial buildings insurance policy.
Mr B, a director  of N, represents  it in this complaint, so Ill refer to him directly  in my decision.
All references to Allianz include their agents.
Background
Mr B made a claim to Allianz on behalf  of N for an incident in April 2016. He said some 
masonry had fallen  from the building covered by the policy onto the street  below. Mr B 
claimed for the costs of emergency scaffolding and making safe the rendering  on the side of 
the building.
Mr B told Allianz the reason for the masonry falling  was due to the vibrations caused by 
heavy vehicles, which had stopped  at a traffic light directly  adjacent to the building.  Mr B said 
the vibrations  of the vehicles were  excessive. In particular, he mentioned  one specific  large 
vehicle that had stopped  there. Mr B said this vehicles vibrations  directly caused the falling 
masonry to happen,  and as such it was a one-off event.
Allianz reviewed Ns claim.  It said it was unusual for vehicle vibrations to cause  masonry  to 
fall directly, so it asked Mr B for a report to explain why this was the case. Mr B offered to do 
the report himself as he had experience in this area,  but Allianz wanted an independent  
report. So it agreed to appoint  a loss adjuster to review the claim.
The loss adjuster visited the property  and declined the claim. They said the affected area of 
render suffered from gradual deterioration, which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr B disagreed with the loss adjusters findings  and challenged the decision. Allianz 
reviewed the claim again. It reviewed  some historic photos of the area that it said showed 
the damage to the render was visible since 2009.  Allianz said the photos showed the 
damage getting worse  over time,  and it declined the claim as it said this was excluded under 
the policy.
Mr B asked Allianz for evidence of the date the photos were taken, which Allianz  provided.  
Unhappy with Allianzs decision to decline the claim,  Mr B then complained  to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything  and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  He 
found that it was reasonable  for Allianz to rely on the historic photos  and concluded  these 
showed the damage had happened  gradually.  He said that although vehicle movement may 
have contributed to exacerbating the damage, he was satisfied the photos showed cracks in 
the masonry before the event happened. So he recommended the claim wasnt  covered 
under the Accidental Damage event on Ns policy.
Allianz agreed with our investigators findings. Mr B on behalf  of N disagreed. He said the 
position of the masonry  on the gable  end was as per a recent  photograph  in 
September 2019, and not as per the historic  photos.
Mr B, on behalf on N asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint  has been 
passed to me decide.
Ref: DRN61377842My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint, and for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain why below.
N holds a perils based  commercial buildings insurance policy  with Allianz. This means  that 
when raising a claim, the onus is on N to show that it falls under one of the events covered 
by the policy.  And Allianz can rely on any policy exclusions if it wishes  to decline the claim, if 
it can sufficiently show an exclusion applies in the circumstances.
Ive checked the terms of Ns policy,  and I can see Allianz has considered the claim under 
the Accidental Damage section of the policy. The policy booklet I have doesnt define 
Accidental Damage,  so in cases like this our service applies a definition  which  says 
Accidental Damage  is something that is unforeseen,  unintentional,  or something that 
resulted in a loss of function.
I am satisfied that the falling masonry was an event  which was unforeseen, so can be 
considered under the Accidental  Damage section of the policy.  
Ive next considered the exclusion which Allianz has relied on to decline the claim. The 
exclusion states, Damage caused by or consisting of inherent vice, latent defect,  gradual  
deterioration, wear  and tearits own defective  or faulty design  or materials  but this shall not 
exclude Damage  which  itself results  from a cause not otherwise excluded
The relevant  parts of this exclusion relate to gradual  deterioration and wear and tear. So I 
need to consider the evidence I have,  to see if Allianz has declined this claim fairly.
Ive considered the loss adjusters report from attending the site. The loss adjuster  notes  that 
Mr B advised the side elevation  of the property  (where the incident occurred) was re-
rendered in 2000. The loss adjuster concludes that based on the information to date the 
cause of the incident is gradually operating, as the vibrations attributed to the cause would 
have been going on for years.
Mr B doesnt  agree  with the loss adjusters version  of events. But he hasnt provided me with 
any firm evidence to dispute this. So based  on the evidence I have, I dont think the loss 
adjuster came to an unreasonable conclusion  based  on what they found.
Ive also reviewed the historic photos from the site to see if they match  the evidence 
provided. Ive looked at the affected area since records were first available in 2009. I can see 
there is some minor cracking and discoloration to the render in the 2009  photo  mainly  
around the lower  part of the sill. In later photos from 2014 and 2015, the cracking is clearly 
visible and wider. It is also more  visible on the upper part of the sill where the incident 
occurred. So based on what  Ive seen, I am persuaded that the damage appears to have 
been a result of gradual wear and tear over time.
I agree  with our investigators findings  that its possible the vibrations caused by nearby 
traffic made the problem worse. But from everything  Ive seen, I think its most  likely the 
vibrations highlighted an existing problem with the render as opposed to being the main 
cause.
Ref: DRN61377843I appreciate Mr B has concerns over the accuracy of the photos - in particular with regard  to 
the timestamps. But I havent  seen  any evidence which would lead me to conclude they 
werent genuine. And I also havent seen anything to persuade  me that a one-off  vehicle  
vibration could be the sole-cause of the incident. 
As I think  the photos show a clear deterioration  in the render of the affected area, I think it 
was reasonable  for Allianz  to conclude the incident happened as a result of damage over 
time. So I think it fairly relied on the exclusion in Ns policy  to decline the claim.
Ive checked the remaining policy terms and I cant see that the failure of the rendering  falls 
under any other insurable event. So Im not going to require Allianz to do anything further in 
regard to this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf  of 
N to accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6137784