K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that her credit  file was affected following the voluntary termination of her 
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS).
background
In July 2015 Miss B was supplied  with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement  
with VWFS.
In 2017 Miss B decided to voluntary terminate the agreement. She contacted VWFS and 
discussed the option of paying the shortfall  in full or paying it by instalments under a 
repayment agreement. Miss B says she was told that a repayment agreement wouldnt affect 
her credit rating.
In March 2018 Miss B discovered that her credit  file was showing late payments. She 
contacted VWFS who advised her that there was a technical issue and that her credit  file 
would be amended. Miss B says her credit rating initially improved but subsequently 
returned to poor.
Miss B contacted VWFS  again.  In its final response VWFS said that the information given to 
Miss B about a technical  issue was incorrect and that it hadnt made an error  in reporting the 
late payments to the credit reference  agencies.  
Miss B complained to this service. She says the entries on her credit file caused her to 
withdraw from a property purchase in respect  of which shed incurred a £500  deposit and 
other fees.  Miss B says she had to move back in with her parents  as a result  of which  she 
incurred additional  costs. Miss B wants VWFS to reimburse her for costs totalling  £1513.43.
Miss B says shes also been  declined for a credit card because  of the entries VWFS has 
entered on her credit file.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She said VWFS hadnt given Miss B an 
adequate explanation of how the repayment plan would show  on her credit  file. She 
recommended that VWFS  allow Miss B to clear the remaining balance  and remove  its entry 
from her credit file. The investigator also said that VWFS should  pay Miss B compensation 
for trouble and upset.
The investigator didnt  ask VWFS to refund  Miss B for the costs  associated with her property 
purchase. She said Miss B had withdrawn her mortgage application which  was different to 
the application being declined as a result of the entries on her credit file.
Miss B didnt agree. She said VWFs  had told her it would cover  her costs. She also said 
shed been left with no option  but to withdraw  from her property purchase before she 
incurred even more  costs because her financial advisor told her that she would fail the credit 
check.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN66480272Miss B has said that VWFS told her that a repayment plan wouldnt affect  her credit file. With 
that in mind, Ive listened to the calls between  Miss B and VWFS.
During the call in June 2017, Miss B said she wanted to pay the outstanding balance  in full 
but asked whether she had any alternative options. The advisor  told Miss B that she could 
set up a repayment plan and explained that the outstanding balance would be reported on 
her credit file each month  until it was cleared and that this could  affect her credit rating.
Up to this point in the call I think  the information provided to Miss B was clear. In particular, 
VWFS made Miss B aware that a repayment  plan would affect her credit  rating.
The second  part of the call is where  I think the information provided to Miss B became  more  
confusing. Miss B said she intended  to pay the balance with a credit  card and then pay off 
the credit  card each  month. The advisor encouraged  Miss B to consider a repayment plan 
instead and said that the effect on her credit file would be exactly the same as if she was 
paying off her credit card balance. Miss B told the advisor she intended to apply for a 
mortgage and didnt want any negative entries on her credit file. The advisor told Miss B that 
a repayment plan wouldnt show as a default on her credit file and would  be the same as if 
she was to pay the balance with her credit card. Following this discussion Miss B agreed to 
set up a repayment plan.
Having listened  to the call, I dont think VWFS provided enough information to Miss B about  
the effect that a repayment plan would have on her credit file. Although the advice that it 
wouldnt show as a default was correct, the advisor didnt  make it clear that because the 
payments under the repayment plan were less than the contractual  monthly payments due 
under the agreement, the payments under the repayment plan would show as late payments 
and would have  a negative effect on Miss Bs credit file.
Lenders such as VWFS  have an obligation to share accurate information  with the credit 
reference agencies.  When VWFS reported late payments to the credit reference  agencies, 
this information  wasnt incorrect  so Im unable to ask VWFS to alter it. But it wasnt  what  
Miss B had understood  would  happen.  If VWFS had explained the effect  that a repayment 
plan would have  on Miss Bs credit file, I dont think she would have entered  into it. I think 
she would  have paid the outstanding balance with her credit  card instead.
Ive also listened  to the call dated  March 2018  where Miss B was told that the entries on her 
credit file were as a result of a technical issue. This advice was incorrect,  because the 
entries on the credit file were an accurate reflection of Miss Bs account.
Miss B wants VWFS to refund  her for all of her costs associated  with her abortive property 
purchase. She says she had no option  but to withdraw from the purchase when she 
discovered the negative entries on her credit file.
In deciding whether  to award compensation, I take into account any financial loss suffered 
as a result  of any error by VWFS. But in this case,  VWFS hasnt made an error  in the nature 
of the information it reported to the credit reference  agencies. Miss B says she withdrew  
from the purchase on the advice of her financial advisor, who told her she would probably 
fail a credit  check.  Whilst  I understand the reasons for Miss B deciding to withdraw from the 
purchase, Im unable  to ask VWFS  to compensate Miss B for financial loss. This is because 
it was Miss Bs decision  to withdraw  from the purchase rather than the mortgage application 
being declined  as a result of the entries  on Miss Bs credit file.
Ref: DRN66480273Miss B says she was told by VWFS that it would refund any monies she had lost as a result  
of any mistakes on her account.  But again, there  are no errors with the information which 
VWFS has reported to the credit reference  agencies.
VWFS has said it has reviewed all of its calls and cannot find any evidence that it offered to 
pay any of Miss Bs costs.  On balance, I cant be certain that VWFS agreed to pay any costs  
and even if this was discussed, for the reasons  Ive given Im not satisfied  that there were 
any errors with the information showing on Miss Bs credit file, and the decision to withdraw 
from the property purchase  was  Miss Bs.
Ive taken account of Miss Bs comments about  her recent application  for a credit card. 
Based on what I can see on Miss Bs credit file, I think its more likely than not that her 
application was declined as a result  of the entries  reported by VWFS. However, as Ive 
already said, VWFs  hasnt made  an error in reporting this information so Im unable to ask it 
to alter the records.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I think  that VWFS provided 
incomplete and/or misleading advice to Miss B when  she called to discuss how to pay her 
outstanding balance. If VWFs had explained the effect that a repayment  plan would  have on 
Miss Bs credit file I think she would have chosen to repay the balance by another method. 
Miss B has suffered trouble and upset as a result of this and I think that VWFS should pay 
compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited should:
Allow Miss B to clear the remaining balance  on the account  and remove its entry 
from her credit file
Pay compensation of £100 to Miss B for the trouble and upset caused  to her
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6648027