K820x#14complaint
Ms B and Mr R say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Ms B a home insurance policy. 
background
Ms B and Mr R live together. In 2014  Ms B arranged house insurance  in her name for their 
home, which Mr R owns. In 2018, whilst at branch, a bank employee noted that Ms B had no 
insurable interest in the house  and advised  the policy,  as arranged,  was invalid  but adding 
Mr Rs name  would resolve that. The employee  said if thered been a claim it wouldnt have 
been covered  with the policy in Ms Bs name only.
Ms B and Mr R were  annoyed and worried about  what might have happened had they 
suffered a loss in the last few years. They  complained  to Lloyds and asked  for their money 
back. Lloyds said the employee had been  wrong  if there had been a claim it would  have 
been considered,  with Mr R being added at that point.  It said it would send £50 
compensation for the upset Ms B and Mr R had been caused  by the employees advice.
Ms B and Mr R said it was easy for Lloyds to say this now but they felt it was unlikely the 
employee had been  wrong. They also felt it was insufficient to say the claim would  have 
been considered  Ms B had paid premiums over four years  so theyd want Lloyds to 
guarantee any claim would have  been  paid. They complained to us and said the £50 hadnt  
been received.   
Our investigator felt that Lloyds confirmation  about what it would have done was sufficient. 
So he didnt think it should  have to re-pay any premiums.
Ms B and Mr R remained dissatisfied. They felt it was unlikely the branch employee would 
have got their advice  incorrect  and theyd  expect the employee to have known the correct 
procedure ie whether there would have been  cover or not. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that it was frustrating and upsetting for Ms B and Mr R to hear they may not 
have been covered over the last four years,  despite having paid premiums  for that. However, 
in many ways the branch employee was right to raise  a concern and get the policy 
implemented correctly  moving forwards. 
That is because,  strictly speaking, whilst Ms B lives at the property, because she doesnt 
own it, she doesnt have  an insurable interest  in it. So whilst she has belongings there  and 
contributes, in the event of damage to the building, it would,  technically,  be incorrect  for 
Lloyds to pay her for repairs and if she was the only policyholder  she would be the only 
person it could pay because Mr R, the home  owner,  wasnt its customer.
That being  said,  this service always encourages insurers to deal with matters fairly and 
reasonably. Whilst Ms B being the policyholder wasnt technically correct, and whether or not 
her being  the policyholder was due to any fault of Lloyds, it seems Lloyds would have been 
happy to cover the property. And adding  Mr Rs name to the cover in the event  of a claim 
Ref: DRN62652842and considering the claim anyway is a fair and reasonable response to the technically 
incorrect situation that was in play.
It also means that Mr Rs insurance history  for the property is protected  he wont  have to 
declare that theres been a gap in cover as he would if the policy that was initially  in Ms Bs 
sole name had been  cancelled with premiums being refunded.  Essentially Lloyds accepts 
that the intent  was for the property to be covered and its happy  to act as though  that is what  
had happened. 
I realise Lloyds has said claims  would be considered  and hasnt guaranteed theyd be paid. 
But I wouldnt expect any insurer to offer a blanket guarantee like that. Simply speaking an 
insurer cant know whether any claim made  will be covered or paid until it is assessed. 
Payment of premiums doesnt guarantee any claim will be paid.  In terms of a hypothetical  
situation regarding  what Lloyds would have done if Ms B had made a buildings  claim, all it 
can reasonably  say is it would have considered it. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds  response to pay £50 compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Im not going  to require it to pay anything more.  If this still hasnt been 
received, they should contact it directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any awards against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6265284