K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that UK Insurance Limited  (trading as Prudential Home  Insurance) 
(Prudential) has declined to cover his claim for the loss of a jet engine  for his model aircraft 
on a home  insurance  policy he has with them.  
background
In July 2018, Mr Ds home was burgled. A number of items  were stolen. Whilst Prudential 
agreed to cover most  of the items  he claimed  for, it declined to cover the jet engine which 
Mr D had bought  for a model aircraft. It explained  Mr Ds policy didnt cover vehicles under 
the contents section.  And according to the policy definitions, the jet engine would fall under 
the definition of a vehicle.
Mr D disagreed with Prudentials findings  and referred the matter to our service. He felt it 
was more appropriate to consider the dictionary  definition of a vehicle. And that hed come  
across other policies which did cover model aircrafts under the contents section. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ds complaint and concluded that his policy  did 
exclude vehicles  under the contents section. And that it also set out the definition of a 
vehicle. So it would  be the policy definition that Prudential was entitled to apply when  
considering Mr Ds claim.
But Mr D remains  unhappy and has asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.  He 
believes an ordinary interpretation  of words should be applied for the sake of fairness. Hes 
also provided an extract from another Prudential Home Insurance  policy document,  
highlighting that model aircraft or watercraft  is covered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, much  for the same 
reasons as the investigator,  I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
As much as Mr D would like his claim to be considered  using the dictionary definition  of 
words, the policy  he took out with Prudential has specifically defined certain words. By way 
of explanation, words  in insurance documents that are in bold type are typically those where  
there are specific definitions, relevant to the insurance  these definitions are usually found  
in the policy  terms  and conditions. And its these particular meanings  that form the basis  of 
the contract  between the insurer and the policyholder. This isnt unusual  indeed, it creates 
certainty where a natural  or ordinary meaning may lead to ambiguity.  
With that in mind, Ive looked at the policy document applicable to Mr Ds home insurance. 
For each section of cover, theres  a warning  at the top of the page that [d]efined words 
appear in bold  see page  39 for details. And on page 39Contents is defined as:
Household goods, personal possessions, business equipment, camping 
equipment, money,  satellite dishes, aerials  and other articles  which  you are 
responsible for or that belong to you, domestic staff who live in or guests, except  
paying guests.
But not:
Ref: DRN64581082vehicles
Looking further  down, Vehicles is defined  as:
Any vehicle or toy propelled by a motor  of any kind, caravans, trailers,  hovercraft,  
aircraft, watercraft, land yacht,  wind powered  or assisted  vehicles,  as well as any of 
their keys, key-fobs, parts and accessories (except  for removable entertainment or 
navigation equipment while it is removed from the vehicle)
But not the following while being used for their intended purpose and by a person for 
whom they were designed:
ride-on lawnmowers
electrically powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters
electrically powered childrens ride on toys
electrically assisted bicycles
pedestrian controlled electrically powered golf trolleys
model watercraft
hand-propelled watercraft (such as surfboard  or rowing boat).
Having carefully considered this, Im satisfied Mr Ds jet engine  would fall under the definition 
of vehicles. I say this because the engine forms part of the model aircraft. And, as something  
Mr D uses for his enjoyment, I think it can reasonably be described as a toy propelled by a 
motor. I acknowledge Mr D says the engine was yet to be used and was still in its box. But I 
dont think this makes any difference. The policy makes no distinction between  used and 
unused parts.
With this in mind, Im satisfied  Prudential  has correctly applied the policy terms in assessing 
Mr Ds claim.  And as the policy doesnt  provide cover for his jet engine, I dont think it has 
acted unfairly.
I know Mr D has highlighted  the terms from another Prudential home insurance policy. But 
the extract hes provided doesnt  show which year the policy document  relates to. And 
having checked with Prudential, it seems  to be from a different policy  which was 
discontinued in 2013. Id like to reassure Mr D that before considering whether Prudential 
has correctly and fairly applied the terms, I checked  that it was using the right policy 
document to assess his claim.
I realise Mr D has also questioned whether these terms were  drawn to his attention. 
Prudential has said it sent Mr D an Important  Information leaflet whenever  changes were 
made to the terms and at renewal. I think its most  likely Mr D received this leaflet at 
appropriate times. Having looked at the leaflet which would have  been  issued at the renewal 
just before the incident, it also sets out the same  definition  of Vehicles. So Im satisfied the 
definition would have  been highlighted to Mr D.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Ref: DRN64581083Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6458108