K821x#15complaint
Mr D complained that A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP wanted  to charge him a fee for 
missing his appointment under his boiler replacement agreement.
background
Mr D took out a boiler replacement agreement with A Shade Greener in November 2013 
which is also a repair and annual  service agreement.
Mr D had an annual service on his boiler  arranged with A Shade  Greener for 1 October 
2018. A Shade  Greener  says its engineer went  to Mr Ds property but Mr D wasnt at home.
A Shade Greener told Mr D he needed to pay it £75 for a missed  service appointment and if 
he refused to pay and rearrange the service  he would be breaking the terms of the 
agreement. It said that would  mean Mr D would lose cover for his boiler which would lead to 
him breaching the agreement and having to pay all sums owed under the agreement. 
Mr D complained to us about paying  the £75. He says in the past he had problems with a 
different A Shade Greener engineer which, he says, cost him £100. Mr D wanted A 
Shade Greener  to waive the £75 charge and re-arrange the service for free. Before our 
investigator gave his view about what should  happen, in November 2018 Mr D paid A 
Shade Greener  the £75 fee so it would service the boiler to maintain the agreement. 
Our investigator thought A Shade Greener should refund the £75 to Mr D. The agreement 
Mr D signed up to didnt  mention a missed appointment  fee.
A Shade Greener disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said from April 2017 it 
had sent Mr D five separate emails telling him about the £75 fee for missed  appointments. 
He hadnt disputed the possible charge until he had to pay it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service had previously decided  that we can look at complaints about  the type of 
agreement Mr D has with A Shade Greener. A Shade Greener hasnt disputed that we can 
look at this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive seen the emails  A Shade Greener sent to Mr D from April 2017 telling him about the 
missed appointment  fee. Before the October  2018  service it sent him the following email: 
We recognise that on occasions circumstances do change, therefore we do all we can to 
confirm your appointment by sending reminder texts and emails  the day before. In the 
unfortunate event  of our engineer attending your property as agreed  and not being  able to 
undertake the service  for reasons beyond our control, you will be charged £75 for us having 
to rebook the service and re-attend  to complete. Please note if your boiler is not serviced by 
ourselves as per your agreement,  the warranty will become null and void.
Ref: DRN62576042A Shade Greener did make Mr D aware  of the £75 charge before visiting.  Its engineer also 
sent Mr D a text saying the time he would arrive.  From  the evidence  Ive seen I accept the 
engineer attended as planned and the service didnt happen that day as Mr D wasnt 
available.
However, our investigator asked A Shade Greener  where its agreement  with Mr D set out 
that its entitled to charge £75 for any missed appointments it wasnt  responsible  for. 
A Shade Greener said the agreement  terms and conditions dont mention a charge for 
missed appointments.  It thinks its entitled to charge the £75 as it made Mr D aware of the 
charge and consequences  of missing the appointment  before the service.
I dont think A Shade Greener can fairly and reasonably charge Mr D a £75 missed 
appointment or rescheduling fee. The boiler agreement  between A Shade  Greener  and Mr D 
details each partys responsibilities and obligations  and what A Shade Greener can charge 
and the fee isnt in the agreement. 
I think if A Shade Greener wanted  to charge Mr D for a missed appointment it would have 
been fair and reasonable to set out the charge in the agreement so Mr D was aware when 
he entered into the agreement. Thats particularly so given the important consequences  for 
the continuation of the agreement if Mr D didnt pay the fee. 
A Shade Greener must refund the £75 fee Mr D paid to it plus interest  as Ive detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP to refund to Mr D the £75 fee plus interest*  at 8% 
simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP must make the payment within  28 days of us telling it that 
Mr D agrees my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If A Shade Greener  (Boilers) LLP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
take off income  tax from that interest  it should tell Mr D how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr D a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6257604