K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Miss C says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
HSBC hasnt got any of the original paperwork completed at the time of the sale. Miss C told 
us in the questionnaire  she completed  for this service that the PPI was sold over the internet. 
Miss C later told us she thinks it was sold at a branch.
But however  it was sold, I note Miss C took out the credit card in April 2006 and the PPI 
wasnt added until May 2007 over a year later. So I think  Miss C wouldve known she could 
have the credit card without PPI. Overall I think HSBC likely made it clear that Miss C didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this.
Ive assumed HSBC  recommended  the PPI to Miss C as this places more  responsibility on 
the business. It means HSBC had to check that the PPI was right for her  and based on 
what Ive seen of Miss Cs circumstances at the time, I think  that it was.
For example Miss C wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  
She would not have  got any sick pay from her employer. But the PPI sold to Miss C wouldve 
paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  if she couldnt work. Itd also pay a monthly 
benefit if she lost her job. So Miss C seems  to have had a need for the cover.  
Miss C has told us she had some savings she couldve used. But the PPI would mean she 
could use any savings  towards other living  costs  if she became unwell or lost her job. Miss C 
did have a critical illness policy, but this is a different type of cover  and didnt duplicate the 
PPI.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Miss C, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN60157182To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6015718