K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc added a £400  overdraft facility  to his account  in April 
2018 which he didnt  ask for and couldnt afford.
background
Mr H says that TSB added the overdraft in April 2018 which  he immediately used. He says 
he has difficulty managing  his spending  and so TSB shouldnt have given him the overdraft 
and he didnt ask for it. Mr H says he was forced  to call TSB every other day about 
happened and as a result his carers  phone  bill doubled. Mr H would like the overdraft  
removed and the balance written off as well as the phone  call costs refunded.
TSB says the overdraft  facility was added to the account in January 2017 for £310. It says it 
was added to allow certain types of payments to be made from the account such as the 
payment of fuel.
Mr H had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt  uphold  it. She didnt  think it 
clear who asked for the overdraft but thought Mr H had made use of it and that it had helped  
him by allowing  payments  to be made.  The investigator didnt think  she could fairly ask TSB 
to write off the debt and couldnt  see from the phone records that Mr H had been charged  for 
calling TSB.
Mr H didnt accept that view and says its clear he was charged for calling TSB.
I looked at the complaint and decided I needed  more information from both sides. I asked  Mr 
H why he thought the overdraft facility started in April 2018 rather than January 2017  and for 
a different amount. I also asked him to provide me with information about  what  he told TSB 
about his medical  position  or any financial difficulties and to explain why he thought the 
phone statements showed  hes been  charged for calling TSB.
I asked TSB to provide further information  including about what  it knew  about Mr Hs position 
and for clarity on why the overdraft was added as well as details about  any repayment plan.
Mr H hasnt replied to my questions. TSB has said there is a repayment  plan in place but 
disputes Mr Hs position.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that TSB hasnt made a mistake and that its likely the overdraft facility has helped his 
financial position. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and I also make it clear  
to both sides that I would liked to have  had answers to all of the questions  I asked.
I think it likely the overdraft was in place from January 2017 and not April 2018 as Mr H 
believed. Im also satisfied having looked at the account statements that it was for £310 and 
not £400. I also think that the overdraft facility  helped Mr Hs financial position and allowed 
him to make  payments that he wouldnt have been  able to make without it such  as payments 
for fuel that require an account to have an overdraft  facility.
I can see that Mr H has made use of the overdraft facility and so I cant  fairly ask TSB to 
write off the balance  even if it was TSB that added it as I think Mr H has had the benefit of it.
Ref: DRN68286222Ive looked at the phone statements  that Mr H has provided. I cant see that the person in 
whose name  the account is in has been charged for any calls. So I cant  fairly ask TSB to 
repay any phone call costs in those circumstances.
In the absence of any other information  or evidence that Mr H may have given TSB about  his 
financial position or medical position.  I cant fairly say TSB has made a mistake  here or failed  
to recognise Mr Hs circumstances or make  any reasonable adjustments.
Overall I cant  fairly ask TSB to do anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6828622