K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that the Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) failed to tell him that he 
was locked in to the proposed insurance  policy for 48 months,  being  required to pay any 
outstanding commission  if he surrendered  it before this time.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 2 July 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
MAB disagreed with my provisional decision,  and said:
The customer may be a first time buyer,  however, he has a degree  and works  as a 
Manager of a large grocery store.  His English and Maths comprehension would be 
significantly higher  than average. He had the documents to take away and read
There is no evidence other than the customer's  word that he was misled  and 
therefore the contract has not be shown to be invalid
It is not satisfied with the explanation  from the Ombudsman as to why he has ignored 
common law (it offered a link to a case it considered pertinent)  this needs to be 
sufficiently clear  for all parties  to understand his thinking
The wording on the fee deferment  contract  is clear and self explanatory. The 
customer signed a piece of paper with numbered clauses  on it and the information  is 
laid out clearly
It would  like clarification as to why specifically the ombudsman feels the customer  
was not aware  of the fee and the fee deferment
Its included in contact  notes and copies of the letters sent to the customer
The customer did not engage with the advisor with regards to finding a cheaper 
product and it's difficult to show a causal link between his urinary  infection  and it
contacting  him for payment
It is prepared to waive the remaining fee but doesnt agree to either the payment of 
premium differences  or the trouble  and upset payment as the customer did not raise 
his complaint immediately but chose to reinstate the policy
It did not threaten him or say it would affect his credit rating
If hed wanted  to avoid stress he would have contacted it earlier (although it admits 
he did make  several  unanswered calls)
He ignored contact with it in helping to get him a cheaper deal
The customer was given a copy of the fee deferment agreement  which  was also 
mentioned in the key facts document
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision I am still satisfied this complaint should be upheld.
Firstly, however, I would  like to reassure MAB (given some of the adjudicators comments) 
that I do not consider there  is anything unfair  or unreasonable about offering clients an 
option between  an advice fee and an insurance  policy with an extended tie-when providing 
mortgage advice.
Ref: DRN64310312My sole concern in this case  is whether  MAB  made sufficiently  clear to Mr D the precise  
terms of the tie-in. Mr D may have been  aware that he had to take out the policy  in question 
in order to avoid  the fee  although he does  not accept this. However, I do not think he was 
aware of the nature  of the tie-in, particularly  given this was not spelt out in the Suitability 
Letter. As I said in my provisional decision,  in my view this is the most important document 
when it comes to spelling  out the precise details  of any proposed  recommendation. If the tie-
in had been spelt out in this document I would not have upheld  the complaint.
Also, as I explained,  customers are inevitably presented with a variety of documents when 
they receive face-to-face advice, particularly where there are options  such as tied-in 
insurance, so I dont accept that the initial discussion and signed  documents  from that 
meeting obviate  the need for a clear  and comprehensive suitability letter.
I therefore dont  accept MABs argument  that my decision runs contrary to the fair and 
reasonable test which  it the regulatory basis for our decision-making. Whether  this always 
reflects strict  legal liability as decided by courts, this is the remit invested in ombudsmen  by 
the Financial Conduct Authority.
I dont share  MABs views that Mr D, given  his education etc., would necessarily  have fully 
considered the specifics of the tie-in  given it was not referred  to in the suitability letter   
when deciding to go ahead with the recommended  policy. It is a business responsibility to 
ensure it gives clients all the information  they need  to make an informed decision at every 
stage of the process.
I also think Mr Ds subsequent actions,  cancelling the policy  and then reinstating when made 
aware of the consequences,  demonstrate that he was not aware of the nature of the tie-in  
and was, therefore in effect  misled. On this issue I found his evidence convincing.  Mr D says 
that if he had been  aware  of the tie-in and the consequences of cancelling the policy within  
48 months he would not have  cancelled. This makes  sense and I think  it is more  likely than 
not to be a true account of his actions.
Mr D details the various ways in which  he tried to speak to someone at MAB after being told 
about the penalty. I have  no reason to doubt  his evidence and, from what  Ive read, MAB 
does not dispute his evidence about visiting a branch or making numerous unanswered 
calls. I therefore accept that he did, as he claims,  suffer significant stress and worry about 
this situation and this is MABs fault in not making  things  clear at the outset. I do not need to 
reach a finding  on any specific issue such as a urine  infection  or his fear of a negative  credit 
rating in order to be satisfied that it should  pay Mr D £200 for the trouble and upset it 
caused.
I am further  satisfied that it should refund a portion  of the premiums  Mr D has paid since 
cancelling and reinstating his policy. This is because I think its more likely than not that Mr D 
would have at least considered obtaining a mortgage (and appropriate cover)  elsewhere if 
fully informed about the extended tie-in and the costs of this.
I note that MAB claims Mr D ignored  its offer of help in getting a cheaper  deal, and therefore  
contributed to the consequences of keeping this policy which  was significantly more 
expensive than the one he was able to source on the open market.  This is not my reading  of 
its correspondence. Nowhere does it make an explicit offer to enable  him to obtain  a 
cheaper quote; nor does  it say this would either avoid the extended  tie-in  charges or what 
charges it would levy on a replacement policy.  
Ref: DRN64310313I therefore instruct MAB to refund £13.50 of each of the premiums  Mr D has paid since  the 
cancellation/reinstatement date up to the date of settlement of this complaint. As Mr D has 
been deprived of this money MAB must  pay 8% simple interest per annum  on each £13.50 
from the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement of this complaint.
I also instruct it to cancel  any debt  owed by Mr D in outstanding fees. Mr D will then be 
entitled to cancel the policy without  any financial consequences.
I also instruct it to pay £200 in lieu of the trouble  and upset it has caused.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  the Mortgage  Advice Bureau Limited to pay 
compensation as outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64310314provisional decision
complaint
Mr D complains that the Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited  (MAB)  failed to tell him that he was locked  
in to the proposed  insurance policy for 48 months, being  required to pay any outstanding  commission 
if he surrendered  it before  this time.
background
Mr D obtained a mortgage  via MAB who waived its 1% arrangement fee on the condition that he took 
out insurance  cover with it.
Mr D said the advisor did not explain the 48 month lock-in  period and that he was presented with a 
number of documents to sign at the same time and simply signed  them  all. He was not aware  of the 
lock-in clause till he cancelled the policy and was told he owed MAB its outstanding fee of £778.
MAB rejected  his complaint,  saying the documentation clearly spelt  out the conditions, and Mr D had 
chosen this option in order to avoid  paying its standard mortgage  arrangement fee.
Mr D did not accept this and brought his complaint to this service, saying:
The advisor  said the mortgage advice fee would  be £450; there was no mention of an 
additional 1% arrangement  fee
After cancelling the MAB  policy he found and took out a £15 a month cheaper policy
He was then called to say he owed  MAB money; he thought this was a scam and was very 
anxious about  the whole  thing
He went into the MAB advisors office but no-one could help; he asked for someone  to call 
him but no-one rang
He then received a letter  threatening him with a fine
He cancelled the new policy to avoid  this but felt stressed  and very  down and subsequently 
contracted a urine infection
The advisor  had never mentioned this fee or the lock-in,  or that he could get a policy 
elsewhere
If the advisor had explained the 48 month lock-in  and hed agreed to it then he wouldnt  have 
tried to cancel  the policy after 12 months
An adjudicator at this service felt Mr Ds complaint should be upheld  as he didnt believe MAB had 
given him sufficient information about the lock-in, and therefore felt Mr D was more  likely than not to 
have been unaware of it.
MAB disagreed, reiterating  that Mr D signed a document agreeing to its terms.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator  and for the same reasons.
Having considered  all the evidence  I think it is more likely than not that the advisor failed to spell out 
that Mr D had to either pay the 1% arrangement fee or commit to an insurance policy with a lock-in of 
48 months. I think it is more  likely than not that Mr D first became aware of this particular condition  
after he had cancelled the policy. On this point  I find Mr Ds evidence  persuasive and convincing.
I also think  this was such  a crucial element of the overall deal that the advisor needed to have spelt 
this out in the Suitability Letter in clear and transparent detail. Instead, there  was no reference to it all. 
Many people  meeting a financial advisor, particularly  a first-time buyer whose prime  objective is 
Ref: DRN64310315simply to secure a mortgage, can find it difficult to fully assess what  is being  discussed  and proposed 
including the various documents they need to sign. 
This is why the Suitability  Letter is so crucial. It is where everything should be set out in clear detail  
and sent to the customer  in time for them to fully read and think through  what is being proposed.  In 
this case  if MABs letter  had spelt out the nature of the deal being  proposed I would have  been very 
unlikely to have upheld this complaint.
I note MABs  claim that the regulator expects fees and product  suitability to be kept separate in 
documentation. This is not an argument I have come across before and is not in line with much 
documentation I have  seen. But even if this is the case it still, in my view, requires MAB  to spell out 
the fees in a clearly-labelled  and highlighted side letter. It did not do this.
I therefore  dont believe  Mr D was in a fully informed position to decide  whether to go ahead with the 
recommended deal.
From what Ive read I think it is unlikely  Mr D would have gone  ahead with the deal if fully informed, 
although I cannot be certain what  he would  otherwise have done   including how much he might have 
had to pay to a different mortgage advisor (assuming he didnt simply approach  a lender directly).
However, given the sums involved I think  he could have got appropriate mortgage advice for around 
the amount he paid in commission by the time he sought  to cancel MABs recommended  policy.
I sought further evidence about Mr Ds replacement  policy  which provided  joint rather  than sole 
cover  and was therefore significantly more valuable.  Despite this, it was around £13.50 a month 
cheaper.
I therefore  intend  to instruct MAB to refund £13.50 of each of the premiums Mr D has paid since then 
and up to the date of settlement of this complaint.  As Mr D has been deprived of this money since he 
first cancelled the policy in July 2018 MAB will be required  to pay 8% simple interest per annum  on 
each £13.50 from the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement  of this complaint.
I also instruct it to cancel any debt  owed by Mr D in outstanding  fees. Mr D will then be entitled to 
cancel the policy without any financial consequences.
I am also satisfied that Mr D suffered significant trouble  and upset  as a result of MABs actions 
including his understandable fear that his credit rating would be damaged  by cancelling the policy. I 
therefore instruct it to pay £200 in lieu of this.  
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct the Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to pay 
compensation as outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6431031