K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz).
background
Mrs E took out a store card in 1998. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy  which would 
have covered 15% of her repayments on her outstanding balance at the point of claim each 
month if her husband, Mr E, couldnt work due to an accident, sickness  or redundancy. 
Mr and Mrs E say that the policy was unnecessary and unsuitable.  
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs E 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
Mrs E applied for her card in a store. Allianz has provided a copy of the application form. 
Theres a separate  section for PPI which Mrs E needed to complete if she wanted it. The 
section has been  completed and Mrs E nominated her partner,  Mr E, for the cover as she 
was entitled to. Mrs E wasnt  working, so she wouldnt have been eligible for the cover 
herself. The wording made  it clear  that Mrs E had a choice about taking the PPI.
Im satisfied that Mrs E knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and elected to buy it.
Allianz didnt give Mrs E any personal  recommendation  or advice about the PPI, so it didnt 
have to take any steps to make sure it was right for her. But it did have an obligation to make  
sure she had enough information about the policy to make her own informed decision.
I dont think Allianz did this. Theres very little information about  the policy on the application 
form. But this doesnt mean I should automatically  uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. I have 
to consider whether Mrs E would  have acted differently and not bought  the policy if shed  
had all the information she needed.
I dont think Mrs E would  have acted differently. I think, despite the lack of information,  that 
the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs E. I say this because:
Mr E was eligible  for the PPI and wouldnt have been affected by any terms which  
might have  made it more  difficult  to make a successful claim, such  as those related 
to self-employment or existing medical  conditions;
Mr E had some sick pay entitlement from his employer, but the policy  would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially would have done  so for longer than his full 
sick pay would have  lasted. It would have continued paying  out until the balance was 
Ref: DRN63612262cleared or Mr E returned to work,  whichever was sooner, so it offered a useful 
benefit;
Mr E would have had a statutory entitlement  to some redundancy pay, and the 
couple had a small amount of savings. But the policy would have  paid out in addition  
to these, leaving any redundancy pay and savings to cover  other  uninsured essential 
expenses;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  policies on the market around the 
same time. And it offered  a better  benefit  than most.
So while I dont think Allianz did everything it needed to do when  it sold the policy  to Mr and 
Mrs E, I dont  think they lost out as a result  of this.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint, so it follows  that Allianz  Insurance Plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6361226