K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the way that UIA (Insurance)  Limited dealt with his home  insurance  
claim for water damage.
background
On July 2018 Mr L made a claim to UIA following a leak from his bathroom that caused 
damage to his property.  UIA accepted the claim and arranged  for drying and the appointed 
contractors to start the work. However the contractors said that the bathroom tiles didnt 
need replacing which Mr L disputed - he said the leak was still going on. UIA arranged  for 
further leak detection  it found there was no further leak but the silicon  grouting  around the 
bath needed repair, which Mr L carried out. 
The works couldnt go ahead without the drying  certificate  however this had been sent 
directly to UIA rather  than the contractors and there was a delay in this reaching them. This 
was passed onto the contractors on 28 August. Repairs were arranged  to start on 17 
September but had to be pushed back due to contractors availability. They were due to 
complete by 28 September but some further issues arose concerning poor workmanship and 
further work  had to take place which was completed by 22 October.
Mr L complained about delays  and poor communication surrounding his claim. UIA 
acknowledged this and agreed to refund his excess of £250.  Mr L later complained that the 
contractors missed or were  late for appointments meaning his wife had to waste time taking 
leave. For this and the issues  of poor workmanship UIA paid a further £100. UIA has agreed 
that we can look at those further issues.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that the compensation paid was sufficient. 
Mr L felt he shouldve been paid at least £500.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were delays in dealing with Mr Ls claim and some issues of poor communication. 
Firstly it wasnt  made  clear to Mr L that the bathroom tiles werent  going  to be all taken down.  
This caused a delay  while further leak detection took place. There  was also a delay  of at 
least a month in getting the drying  certificate  delivered to the contractors. The delays in 
September were  due to the lack of availability of contractors which  was unfortunate but not 
something that much could be done about. 
It also does appear that the contractors didnt keep  Mr L informed. On one occasion his wife 
took leave and the contractors didnt turn up due to having overrun on another job. And on 
another occasion she took leave because the contractors said they were coming earlier than 
they did. I can understand that this was frustrating to Mr L.
I can also understand that it would have been upsetting,  causing  more inconvenience, for 
more repairs to be done. This was because of problems with poor workmanship.
Ref: DRN64588692Overall the repairs took a little over three months to be done which  I agree  for the job, which  
wasnt very large, was too long. I do though have to take into account that these sort of 
claims are bound to cause some inconvenience  and it would only be appropriate for UIA to 
pay compensation to the extent that it or its agents  were responsible for delays and poor 
communication. 
UIA has refunded  the excess of £250 and paid further compensation of £100. Taking into 
account the issues I have mentioned and our awards in similar cases I think that the 
payment of the equivalent of £350  compensation is reasonable.  So I dont propose to ask 
UIA to do anything further.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against UIA (Insurance) Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6458869