K820x#14complaint
Ms K has complained Cabot Credit Management Group Limited, trading as Cabot Financial 
(Europe) Limited, is asking her to pay a debt which she dispute is hers.
background
In 2018 Ms K started to get letters from a debt recovery company asking her to repay 
£1,349.08. She found out this was related to a credit  card issued by a company Ill call C. 
Although she had formerly held a credit card with C, she believed shed paid this off in 2013.
She asked  Cabot to provide evidence this debt was hers. Cabot  told her theyd been in touch 
with C who confirmed Ms K had taken out this card in 2007.  The last payment to the account 
had been made in 2014 and theyd then defaulted Ms Ks account in 2015. Cabot were still 
holding her responsible.  She brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. Initially Cabot disputed we could consider this 
complaint. They believed Ms Ks allegation thered been fraudulent activity all took place 
before they bought the debt from C. We confirmed we did think  the case  was properly set up 
against Cabot  as they were now the owners  of the debt and pursuing  Ms K for the 
outstanding balance. They then shared statements theyd got from C.
Ms K  through  her representative  confirmed  shed paid off the credit card in 2013. 
Although she hadnt  used  the card after that, she hadnt cancelled  it. However  the 
statements showed expenditure  after that date matched the pattern of expenditure before 
that period as well. This included payments to another credit card account  and cash 
withdrawals close to where Ms K lived. Our investigator felt Ms K had either  made or 
authorised these transactions. Therefore she remained  liable  for the outstanding  debt.
Ms K asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I have reviewed both aspects of this complaint:  the transactions Ms K believes  are fraudulent  
and whether Cabot  can continue  to hold her liable for the debt.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
financial institution has acted fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things 
we consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them to 
be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt agree they should be refunded.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions  Ms K 
disputes in 2014. 
I dont intend to repeat everything that was said by our investigator in his view of 14 
February 2020. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint thoroughly.
Ref: DRN69298902The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Ms K didnt cancel  her credit card after making payment of all money  due in 2013. 
She kept it.
Thered been  similar periods in 2011  and 2012 when Ms K fully paid off her credit 
card with C and stopped using it for a few months.  She then re-used it  probably to 
help with cash-flow  over a few months and made partial repayments.  
The disputed use seems similar  in nature.
Ive looked  at the transactions that Ms K disputes. This includes a payment to 
another credit card provider (V). Im aware  that at this time Ms K held a credit  card 
with V.
There are payments towards  the credit  card account until October  2014.  Its unusual 
for regular payments  to be made to an account if transactions are disputed.
C no longer holds data on where  the payments for the credit  card were made from.
Theres no evidence an unknown third party  would have had access  to Ms Ks card 
and PIN.
Having considered all the available evidence,  I dont believe these transactions were  made 
without Ms K authorising them.
Ive also looked  at the statements.  These show the debt Cabot is trying to collect results  
from payments not made towards these credit card transactions. So overall  I dont believe 
Cabot are doing anything wrong  in asking Mr K to repay this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ks complaint against Cabot 
Credit Management  Group  Limited,  trading as Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6929890