K821x#15complaint
Ms Hs representative complains about  the advice Ms H received from Economic Financial 
Solutions IFA Limited (trading as Torch Wealth Management) to transfer her pensions  to a 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP).
background
Ms H met Torchs  adviser in 2016.  Torch recorded  that Ms H wanted to review her existing 
pensions. And it said that shed stated that she wanted maximum flexibility in her pension 
arrangements so that at 55 she could choose and/or  take advice on the full range of options 
available to her.
At the time of the advice, Ms H was aged  49, employed  and a basic rate taxpayer. She had 
two personal pensions but no other retirement  provision  and no ISAs. Torch  also noted in 
the fact find that she had limited financial knowledge and experience.
Torch assessed  Ms Hs attitude  to risk as Risk Profile  6 (on a scale  of 1 to 10, where 10 
was the highest risk). Risk Profile 6 was categorised as High  medium.
Torch recommended that Ms H should transfer  her pension funds to a SIPP.  And it advised 
Ms H to place her funds  with a discretionary fund manager invested in a growth portfolio. 
The total transfer value was around  £35,000.
Ms Hs representative complained to Torch about the advice Ms H had received. But Torch  
didnt uphold  the complaint. It said, in summary, that the advice had been  suitable for Ms H. 
And it said she hadnt suffered any financial loss.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Ms Hs complaint should be upheld. She said, in 
summary:
While  Torch had established Ms H as having  a high medium attitude to risk (ATR) 
she didnt feel that the evidence supported this. 
Ms Hs pension plans  were her only pensions,  and she would have been reliant on 
them in retirement.  In addition, Ms H was 49 years  old and therefore investing her 
only pensions into high medium  risk investments  was too high a risk for her to take;
The charges  associated with the SIPP were higher than those associated with 
Ms Hs previous plans;
The total fund transferred  was of a modest amount and given the increased charges 
attributed to the SIPP she didnt think the advice to transfer to the SIPP  and invest in 
the recommended portfolio was suitable advice;
Although she noted Torchs comments  that Ms H hadnt made any financial loss as a 
result of the transfer, she still didnt think that the advice had been  suitable.
Torch didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that the model portfolio service it had 
recommended was suitable  for clients with a medium attitude to risk and was provided by a 
regulated fund manager. And it said that the fact that Ms H was not an experienced investor 
should have no bearing as she was provided  with a recommendation for a fund which  was 
managed for and on her behalf. Ms H was investing for a term of at least  17 years  so such 
an investment strategy was entirely  suitable.
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change her view and so the complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN62372462my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator that the advice to transfer wasnt suitable. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
It is clear to me from the evidence Ive seen that Ms H was not an experienced investor. In 
particular, she described her level of investment experience as Not at all experienced; Im 
not very comfortable  with investing.
Torch established  Ms Hs ATR as High  Medium. But I agree with our adjudicator that 
Ms Hs experience and circumstances were also relevant. And, given Ms Hs age and 
investment experience, my view is that it was too high risk to invest  her only pension funds 
into the recommended portfolio. 
I also note that the ongoing charges for the SIPP were  higher than those for Ms Hs original 
personal pensions.  In addition, an initial charge of 4% was paid to Torch from Ms Hs funds.
Torch has subsequently supplied a brochure which says that the portfolio  service was 
suitable for those  with at least  a medium attitude to risk. And it says that it was provided  
by a regulated  fund manager. It also says that Ms Hs lack of experience  is irrelevant, as the 
recommendation was for her to invest in a fund which was managed for and on her behalf. 
Ive considered what Torch has to say, but, having done so, I dont agree. I say this as, given 
the relatively modest value of Ms Hs pension funds and the higher charges associated  with 
the SIPP, I remain of the view that the transfer wasnt  suitable for Ms H.
Torch has also said that Ms H was investing for the long-term, as she had at least 17 years 
until retirement. But, again, this doesnt  change my view. In saying this Ive taken account of 
the note in the fact find that Ms H wanted  to consider her options and potentially  start taking 
her benefits  at age 55. As Ms H was aged 49 at the time of the advice she had limited  time 
to make up any losses incurred.
I agree  with our adjudicator that, had it not been for the advice Ms H received, she would not 
have transferred her existing plans. And I agree that her previous plans were more  in line 
with her ATR.
fair compensation
My aim is that Ms H should be put as closely as possible  into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice. In my view, if Ms H had received 
suitable advice  she would  not have  transferred  her pensions.
To compensate Ms H fairly  Torch  should:
1. Obtain  the notional  transfer value of Ms Hs two previous  pension  plans on the date of 
my final decision  if they had not been transferred to the SIPP.
2. Obtain  the actual  transfer value of Ms Hs SIPP on the date of my final decision.
3. Determine the loss as (1)  (2).
Ref: DRN62372463If there is a loss, Torch should pay into Ms Hs pension  plan, to increase its value 
by the amount  of the compensation and any interest. Torchs  payment  should allow  
for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. Torch  shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If Torch is unable  to pay the compensation into Ms Hs pension  plan, Torch 
should pay that amount direct  to Ms H. But had it been possible  to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore, the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise 
have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms Hs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Ms H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms H would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Any loss should  be paid within 28 days of Torch being notified of Ms Hs acceptance  
of my final decision. If its paid later, Torch should add simple interest at 8% per year 
from the date of my decision to the date of payment.
4. Pay Ms H £200  for the trouble  and upset  caused  to her as a result  of the unsuitable  
transfer.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  My decision is that Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited 
(trading as Torch  Wealth Management) should pay Ms H fair compensation calculated  as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6237246