K822xcomplaint
Miss L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) stopped her using her credit  
card while abroad causing her frustration and distress.
background 
In August  2018  Miss L travelled abroad for ten days on holiday. Shortly  after arrival  she 
found her credit card had stopped working.  Miss L said while she had a small amount  of 
currency with her, this was her only available card to use to pay for things while  she was 
away. So she called Halifax to get it working again. Miss L says she called several times, 
and each time was given  different explanations as to what happened.
Around a week  after she arrived,  Halifax  called  her to explain there was nothing it could do 
to reactivate the card and she would need to do this at an ATM when she returned  to the 
UK. Miss L said she had to ask a family member to wire money to her. And as a result  of the 
card not working,  Miss L said she had to cancel trips, and had to stay in the hotel for the 
majority of the holiday.
Miss L complained and Halifax investigated her concerns.  It said a transaction  she made 
while away  was declined  which meant it may have  been processed  incorrectly. It also 
described its fraud prevention system where  a card is put on hold if a number of transactions 
are made abroad. Halifax said Miss L could only reactivate her card when she returned  to 
the UK using  an ATM.  Halifax offered Miss L £100 for inconvenience  caused, and it said it 
would cover the costs  of the phone calls she made.
Miss L was unhappy so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator  asked  
Halifax to clarify why the payments had failed. It checked its internal notes again  and said 
the card wasnt ever blocked. It said instead said several transactions  had been declined or 
the pin had been input  incorrectly which led to the pin being  locked, not blocked.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said she felt Halifax hadnt 
provided consistent information about why the card had stopped working and this wasnt 
reasonable. So she said Halifax should  pay an additional £150 for the inconvenience  
caused. She also said it should  pay Miss L the £37.50 money transfer fee her family member 
had paid to wire money to her (that she had to repay),  and £30 to cover  the cost of the 
phone calls Miss L made while away.
Halifax agreed to this. Miss L agreed that the phone bill costs and money transfer fee issues  
were resolved, but felt the compensation for the inconvenience should  be higher. Because 
Miss L disagreed, the complaint has been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  this complaint. Ill explain why. If we consider a business to 
have made  a mistake  or did something wrong, well consider the impact of this, including 
whether it needs  to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN64900842Halifax has given us a number of explanations as to why Miss Ls credit  card stopped 
working. These have  included the merchant declining the transactions,  Miss Ls pin being 
input incorrectly numerous  times  locking the pin, and a concern about  fraud  prevention 
system blocking  the card due to transactions taking place overseas.
It seems  Halifax cant say what the actual reason for the card not working was. It might not 
have worked because of Miss L or the merchants actions, or because  of its action. But I 
dont think thats  where  the dispute lies any more. Halifax has agreed to compensate  Miss L 
for the impact of the card not working had on her. So what I need to decide is whether what 
its agreed to pay her is fair. 
The calls costs (£30) and money transfer fee (£37.50) have been agreed on. Miss L hasnt 
told me about any other costs occurred as a result of the card not working.  So Im satisfied 
these mean  Miss L wont be out of pocket.
Halifax has agreed to pay Miss L £250  (in total) in recognition of the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. Miss L doesnt think this is enough in light of the cost of the holiday 
and the stress she experienced.  She said overall the holiday was ruined as a result. 
I appreciate Miss L wouldve been frustrated that she was unable to use her card while  
away. But shes explained  this was an all-inclusive holiday  and was still able to enjoy the 
facilities available to her  and she still had some  money with her. So it seems she still 
enjoyed the main benefits of the holiday resort and this wasnt  taken from her. 
I accept Miss L most likely wouldve gone  on more trips and left the resort more  often  had 
she had the credit available. And Im very sorry to hear Miss L describe this experience as 
ruining her holiday. But Im satisfied  that the offer of £250 for trouble and upset is fair and 
reasonable for the disappointment and stress she experienced.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint,  and Im asking Bank of Scotland  plc to 
put things right by giving Miss L £150  for distress  and inconvenience in addition to the £100  
it had already offered. And as it has agreed, it should give Miss L £67.50 for costs related to 
a money transfer  fee and her phone  bill.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6490084