K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss P bought  the policy  in 2000,  at the same time as taking out a credit  card in a branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Ps credit card application had a section for additional products, one of which  was PPI. 
I can see the adviser went through Miss Ps circumstances to fill in the form, such  as her 
personal and employment  details, so I think its most  likely they discussed this section too. 
There was a box which could be marked if Miss P wanted PPI, or which could  be left blank if 
she didnt want it. The box for PPI was marked, and Miss P signed  the form to confirm what 
was on it. So I think that Halifax made  Miss P aware  she had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls 
doing so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss P, which means they had to check it was right for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. While Miss P 
had some benefits through work, the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of those, and it offered 
her more comprehensive cover, especially when her benefits  reduced to just half pay. I also 
understand Miss P had some savings. But Miss P was planning to use those for something 
very important, and the PPI meant she wouldnt  have to spend them  on her credit  card if she 
was off sick or lost her job. So it looks like the PPI couldve been  useful for Miss P in 
protecting her card and savings.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Miss P about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, it looks like Miss P chose to take out the policy,  which suggests 
she wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the policys  main exclusions or limitations,  and it could have been useful for Miss P if 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Miss P could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN65657342my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6565734