K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited,  trading  as Direct Line, didnt repair his car 
properly following a claim against his motor insurance policy. 
background
In mid August 2018,  Mr As car broke down due to an engine  fault.  He contacted  Direct  Line,  
as he believed that the fault was caused by earlier repairs carried out by Direct Lines 
authorised repairers.  In May 2018, Direct  Line had carried  out repairs after another  driver 
collided with Mr As parked car.  
  
When his repaired car was first returned  to him in May 2018, Mr A complained  that some of 
the warning lights  went  on and the car was pulling to the left. Direct Lines repairers made  
further repairs that it said were caused by a leak from the drive shaft, initially caused by the 
collision. Mr As car was returned to him at the end of May 2018. 
Mr A says that Direct  Line didnt repair his car properly. He says that it gave him a five-year 
warranty but is now refusing to repair  his car. He wants compensation for the difference  in 
value of his car now and when it was in good condition.  Mr A also wants  reimbursement for 
alternative transport costs and repairs. 
Direct Line says that the fault isnt related to the accident or repairs.  It asked Mr A to get an 
independent report. It pointed out the time that had passed since  its repairs and said that the 
initial repairs  didnt include any work to the cars engine. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Direct Line had treated Mr A unfairly. He said that it was 
reasonable for Direct  Line to conclude that the fault wasnt  caused by its repairer and ask
Mr A to get an independent report. It said that it would cover the cost of the report if it shows  
that the fault is related  to the earlier accident and repairs.  The investigator said that the five 
year warranty covers  parts  replaced during the repairs and isnt a general warranty.
The investigator said that Direct Line had taken a reasonable time to carry out the repairs  
and had provided Mr A with a courtesy. Mr A took his car to Direct Lines repairers at the end 
of April 2018. It was returned  to him on 10 May and taken back for further  repairs the same 
day. Direct  Lines repairer returned the car to Mr A on 22 May 2018. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He wants Direct Line to pay for an independent report  
in the first instance.  Mr A asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint, so it was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  that 
Direct Line has treated  Mr A unfairly. Ill explain why.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a car was caused, as 
thats a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and engineers.  
Our role in this complaint  is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all 
the available  evidence and whether it can justify its decision  not to pay for further repairs.
Ref: DRN65095002Ive looked carefully  at the repairs carried out by Direct Lines authorised  repairer in 
May 2018. Those repairs were largely  to bodywork, wheels and suspension. Theres  no 
obvious link between those repairs and a fault with the engine  three  months later. 
In the circumstances and in the absence of an engineers report  that says otherwise,  I dont  
think that Direct Line was at fault in rejecting  Mr As contention that the new fault was caused 
by its repairers. Without an engineers report supporting what Mr A says,  theres  no basis on 
which I could ask Direct Line to undertake  further  repairs. 
Direct Line said that it would look at the matter  again  if Mr A could provide evidence  to 
support his claim. I think  that was fair. It wouldnt be reasonable here to ask Direct  Line to 
bear the cost of a further engineers report but it said that it would reimburse the cost if its 
repairers were found to be at fault.  
Mr A has referred to the warranty Direct  Line gave him after the repairs.  Thats  a five-year 
warranty for repaired or painted panels  and the manufacturers warranty on any parts. The 
warranty doesnt cover all parts of the car for five years. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A but, considering everything,  I dont  think  that Direct Line has 
treated him unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6509500