K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about Santander UK Plc (Santander) in relation to Santanders  
treatment of some of their transactions. Mr and Mrs S think that the information provided by 
Santander was misleading and they are concerned that their funds were delayed  in reaching 
the destination account. 
They want  Santander  to provide a further  explanation of what  took place, an apology, and for 
Santander to offer compensation  for their distress and inconvenience.  
background
Mr and Mrs S hold an account with Santander. Their particular account  incurs interest on 
balances up to £20,000. Balances  in excess of that amount  do not earn interest. 
For this reason, Mr and Mrs S regularly transfer  funds above  the interest threshold into other  
accounts so that it can earn interest  elsewhere.  
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs S made three transactions to transfer  funds to another  account. 
These were  for £20,000, £20,000 and £10,000  respectively. All three  transfers appeared 
online to have taken  place on the same  day, the 28th. 
In response to one of the transactions, Santander applied  fraud  checks  and temporarily  
blocked the account. 
Santander then unblocked the account  later that night. 
The third transaction  was then re-credited to Mr and Mrs Ss account  on 29 March 2019 and 
showed on their statement as pended  bill payment credited for interest. The transaction 
then completed later on 29 March 2019 and was transferred  to the destination  account.  
Mr and Mrs S were  concerned that the payment  had been delayed and that they had not 
been contacted if Santander  had any concerns about security. They noted  that the payments 
were being  made to an existing payee  who they had successfully paid before. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Santander. 
Santander responded, advising that they did not uphold their complaint, and that the account 
block and the pending of a payment had been due to security measures. Santander advised 
that it had attempted to contact them but had not been successful. 
Mr and Mrs S were  not happy  with this response  and contacted  us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and has set out his view to the parties.  
This was that Santander had acted reasonably and that there was no evidence that Mr and 
Mrs S had suffered  a financial loss. He therefore did not recommend  that Santander do 
anything further.  
Mr and Mrs S did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
Ref: DRN64340722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have paid particular  attention to Mr and Mrs Ss initial complaint and their response to the 
investigators view. They  have set out that they have concerns  about the contact  information  
held by Santander, as Santander held some out of date and inaccurate contact numbers for 
them, and that they feel that the information presented to them was inaccurate as it 
appeared that the transactions took place, but then later it appeared that the last transaction,  
for £10,000 had been delayed and credited back to their account. 
They also indicated that they had experienced an identical  situation  some years ago and 
Santander had at that time offered compensation for the inconvenience they suffered. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs S feel that Santander was wrong to hold their funds, and they 
feel that the description of the payment being  credited for interest is concerning  because  
the funds were not eligible  for interest  in any event. It appears  that they feel that this was 
deliberate, and not up front about  the purpose  of delaying the transaction. 
I need to make clear  the limits of this service. Our role is not to regulate  the processes  and 
systems of financial institutions, or to penalise businesses where these systems are 
insufficient. This is the role of the regulator. Our role is to look at individual  situations and 
consider whether the business has, in the particular circumstances, treated the consumer 
unfairly. Where the business has not acted  fairly,  we look at compensation to put the 
consumer in the position they should  have  been  in, either by compensating financial loss 
and/or compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
I have reviewed the circumstances and made further  enquiries with Mr and Mrs S to learn 
whether they had suffered  a financial effect, namely  any loss of interest in the destination  
account. Evidence of any such loss has not been provided.
I have also considered the response of Santander, and the view set out by the investigator. I 
note that Santander placed  a block on the account after the first transaction due to a security  
process. It is quite usual for security processes to operate and large  transactions are 
frequently held pending  checks. It is a matter for each business to judge  the level of check  
required for each transaction. This is reasonable and a normal  process.  
Mr and Mrs S are concerned  that they did not receive communication  from Santander to 
check any security  information, either  on the evening of 28 March 2019, or on the morning of 
29 March 2019  while the £10,000 payment  was pended. 
Santander has provided evidence that it attempted to make  contact with Mr and Mrs S on 29 
March 2019, and that it used numbers which were held on the system. These calls did not 
reach Mr and Mrs S as the system  prevents calls being forwarded to a mobile number,  and 
because one of the numbers used  was out of date. Santander then transferred the 
transaction in any event.  
Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S have been caused worry and distress when they have 
reviewed the process and learned  that inaccurate  numbers were  held, but I do not think that 
this was due to wrongdoing by Santander. 
Ref: DRN64340723In this instance, the processes were  resolved in a reasonable time, and I do not criticise 
Santander for its actions  in carrying out the security checks and pending the payment  while  
this was done. 
Mr and Mrs S are concerned  that the information which appeared  to them  on their statement 
and online banking was not accurate as it suggested  that interest could be incurred  on the 
payment. I do not agree,  and it appears  that the description is a standard  message. I do not 
think that Mr and Mrs S would have been  caused confusion by this as they were aware of 
the interest limits which applied to the account.  
Over all, I agree with the investigators conclusion that Santander acted reasonably  and in 
line with its processes. I do not think that, in the circumstances,  Santander has treated Mr 
and Mrs S unfairly, and as a consequence  I do not think Santander ought to pay 
compensation. 
Any action in similar circumstances previously is not relevant to my consideration of this 
complaint. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed  by this decision,  but I hope  it is clear 
how I have reached it
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask Santander UK 
Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020..
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6434072