K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about the advice he received from JLT Actuaries and Consultants 
Limited (referred to from now on as JLT) in June  1997  to opt out of the final salary 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) that his employer provided  and to then join the new 
money purchase arrangement available. Mr W was also advised to transfer  the value of his 
preserved pension  benefits to a new section 32 Buy-out plan.
Mr W has complained that but for the advice that he had received from JLT he would  have 
remained a member of the final salary  pension scheme for as long as he could.
Mr W wants to be compensated for any losses he has incurred.
background
Mr W had joined his employer  in February  1992  and became  a member of the employers
final salary pension scheme with effect from 1 April 1992.
On 19 June 1997 Mr W met a representative of JLT to discuss  his pension  provision. At this 
meeting a fact find was completed which recorded  that Mr W was aged 40 and was a 
member of his employers  final salary  pension scheme. There was an employee 
contribution rate of 3.5% to the existing final salary scheme. Mr W held a separate  paid up 
personal pension  plan.
It was noted Mr Ws employer had introduced a money purchase scheme for future 
new entrants.
On 8 August 1997 a transfer  value analysis  (TVAS) report was produced  for Mr W. This 
showed that in lieu of the leaving service benefits  a transfer value of £35,286 was offered. 
The report  noted  that a return of around  7.6% would be required,  after the transfer had 
taken place, to provide benefits  on retirement  that would match  the value of the leaving 
service deferred benefits in the OPS.
On 25 August 1997 JLT produced a report on the future pension provision for Mr W. This 
report showed that if Mr W opted out of the generous  final salary pension  scheme  then, on 
the assumptions used,  joining the new GPP  and transferring  the accrued benefits into a 
new section 32 policy would provide the highest  projected benefits on retirement. This was 
based on assumed  rate of future investment return of 9% and an assumed rate of future 
salary increase of 3%.
JLT also produced a letter dated 22 September 1997 which set out a number of projections
indicating the benefits payable on retirement on three different assumptions:
Mr W remained a member of the final salary scheme.
Mr W transferred the value  of his leaving service  benefits in the OPS to the 
GPP and accrued  future benefits  via the GPP.
Mr W transferred the value  of his accrued benefits in the OPS to a section 32 
transfer plan and accrued future  benefits  via the GPP
The illustrations of the future GPP benefits were based on an assumed employee 
contribution rate of 5% of pensionable salary and an employer contribution  rate of 10%.
Ref: DRN61192952The letter from JLT dated  22 September 1997  recorded Mr W was employed on a 
pensionable salary of £55,000 p.a. He had accrued  benefits in the final salary scheme in 
respect of five years and two months  and was planning to retire at age 65.
The letter set out that the final salary scheme had an accrual rate of one sixtieth of final 
salary per year of service plus a lump  sum of 3/80ths of final salary for each year of 
service.
Illustrations were produced by JLT on a set of assumptions:
The deferred OPS  accrued benefits  increasing at 5% p.a.
The investment  returns on the GPP  being 6% p.a.and also 9% p.a.
Projected pensions  being based on a single life basis with 50% spouses 
benefit increasing in line with RPI (up to 5%) escalation.
Salary increases of 3% per annum.
JLT calculated that, if Mr W remained in the final salary  scheme,  then the projected 
benefits on retirement would be equivalent  to a pension of 62.11%  of his final salary. It 
pointed out that if Mr W opted  out of the final salary scheme and then transferred to the 
new arrangements  the projected benefits  using  sets of assumptions could be as low as 
35.7% or as high as 86.6% of his final salary.
JLT pointed  out that these figures  were not the lower and upper limits of possible 
outcomes and were  for illustration only.
JLT then explained that changing the assumptions would change the figures and it 
stated that it would be possible to debate  at length  with Mr W what  assumptions  to 
use in carrying out the comparisons. It asked:
Did Mr W want greater investment choice in order to maximise returns?
Did Mr W want flexibility at retirement? It stated the old final salary scheme 
provided benefits in one form whilst  there was choice under the GPP.
Did Mr W want to maximise his tax free lump sum on retirement? Under  the 
OPS  it was limited to 1.5 times his final remuneration.  Under  the GPP it was 
25% of the fund with no limit.
Did Mr W want his dependents to receive  the maximum possible in the event 
he died before retirement? The GPP would provide  greater  benefits.
Did Mr W want to retire early? On early retirement the OPS  applied a reduction  
to the benefits  payable.  There was however no reduction from the GPP  
arrangement and the full fund would be used to provide benefits.
Did Mr W wish to have the ability to maximise his pension  contributions? If so 
the GPP was better.
Whilst future investment returns were  not guaranteed JLT noted the past the 
performance of the PPP providers mixed funds were all over 14% p.a.
The letter finished with the statement:
You must make the decision whether you wish to take greater control  of 
the provision of your future  pension  benefits  or retain the status quo!
Having received this letter  Mr W elected to opt out of the final salary OPS and to join the 
new GPP. Mr W also transferred out the value of his accrued benefits  into a section 32 
Ref: DRN61192953transfer plan.  This was projected,  on the assumptions used, to give Mr W the highest 
benefits on retirement.
In August 1998 Mr W left the GPP  and joined the company Executive Pension Plan 
arrangement.
In March 2002 (some  4 and half years later)  Mr W left the employer and therefore had 
to leave the EPP of which he was a member.
In November  2004 Mr W rejoined the employer and joined the Contracted  In Money
Purchase Plan (CIMP) which was the company  pension scheme  available to all new 
entrants at that time.
In March 2005 JLT wrote  to Mr W about  an investment strategy for his pension  provision. 
This letter explained that the transfer  sum of £35,286 had increased to £44,133. It was 
highlighted that the technology fund in which Mr W had invested a small percentage of his 
investments had performed very badly. Over  the last five years there had been negative 
returns on the technology fund of over 22% per annum.
JLT now considers  this letter  should have put Mr W on notice that he had cause for 
concern. This was because the overall  return which had been  achieved on the funds 
since the transfer some seven and a half years earlier had been around 3%. JLT argues 
this was so low Mr W should have been  aware then that he had cause for concern. JLT 
argues the complaint is therefore timebarred.
On 10 January 2012 JLT wrote  to Mr W offering to carry out a review of the advice that he 
had been given. Mr W accepted the offer of a review.
On 6 December 2013 JLT carried out a review of the advice Mr W was given to opt out of 
the OPS. It stated  that it had identified a number  of concerns  and commented  that Mr W 
might have suffered  a financial  loss. JLT stated that it would be referring Mr Ws case to 
external consultants.
In September  2015  JLT wrote to Mr W saying following this review  it had concluded that it 
was not liable for any losses in respect  of the decision  that he took to opt out of the final 
salary scheme and to join the new money purchase scheme. 
In April 2016 Mr W was sent a Final Response Letter from JLT that rejected his complaint. In 
September 2016 Mr W brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service. 
JLT then objected to the Financial Ombudsman  Service looking at the merits of the 
complaint arguing  that it had been submitted to the Financial Ombudsman Service outside 
the time limits allowed  in our rules.
A jurisdiction decision was issued by another ombudsman on 21 December 2016. The 
ombudsman stated that, in his opinion, there was nothing in the earlier letter  which 
would have given  Mr W overall cause for concern  about the decision to opt out of the 
final salary scheme.
The ombudsman considered that the review concerned the performance of the funds and in 
their view the letter did not highlight the fact that the required critical yield had not been 
Ref: DRN61192954achieved in the past and the projected return from the funds was unlikely to make up the 
shortfall in the future.
The ombudsman concluded Mr W would  not have been aware  he had cause for concern 
about the overall returns on his pension policy and therefore the case  was not 
timebarred.
The adjudicator then investigated the merits of the complaint and upheld  it.
As JLT did not agree with the findings reached by the adjudicator it asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
In my provisional decision dated  31 October 2018 I stated that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint because:
In my opinion the use of a 9% per annum  investment  return  and a 3% salary  growth 
rate assumption was misleading. In my opinion a smaller  gap should  have been 
allowed for.
The illustration of projected benefits  from the transfer of the accrued benefits was 
misleading because  if Mr W had not opted out these  benefits  would have  increased  
in line with his salary increases and not at 5%.
The employee contribution rate to the new money purchase scheme was higher than 
the employee contribution rate to the old final salary scheme so the projected  
benefits on retirement were not comparable.
I also noted that Mr Ws salary had increased rapidly over the years since  he had opted out 
and that this would have  had a more significant  effect on the final salary  benefits in the 
comparison that was carried  out by JLT.
JLT did not agree and in its response dated  6 December  2018 it argued:
The information provided to Mr W was appropriate given his priorities  at the time and 
it met the compliance standards  applicable at that time.
The discussions took place over 5 months  and Mr W was very engaged with the 
adviser. Mr W wanted to take control of his funds and wanted to retire  early.
JLT carried  out a detailed analysis of the options  available  to Mr W.
It believes that the 3% assumed rate of salary  growth was appropriate given Mr Ws 
circumstances and was unlikely to have misled  Mr W.
The 3% assumption was not unreasonable given the increase in National Average 
Earnings and the increases in the RPI.
Whilst there was no evidence that JLT discussed whether Mr W was likely to receive 
significant salary increases over the next few years there was also no evidence  that 
Mr W said that he was planning to leave the employer in the next few years. Indeed  
Mr Ws pattern  of employment could be considered to show  that Mr W was a mobile  
worker who was not tied to one employer.
Mr W did accept  the provisional  decision. However  he stated that he had incurred legal costs 
of about £5,000 and asked that these  be added to any award.
Ref: DRN61192955my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have reviewed the further arguments  that have been made about whether this is a 
complaint that this Service  can investigate.  I note in the jurisdiction decision that was issued 
by another ombudsman on 21 December  2016  they concluded that Mr W would not have  
been aware that the performance  of his new money  purchase arrangement  was such  that he 
should have had cause for concern. The ombudsman noted that it was only a small part of 
the new portfolio  that was performing badly.
I agree  with the other ombudsman  that Mr W would  not have had cause for concern about 
the advice to transfer when just a small part of his new transfer plan had performed badly. I 
therefore also consider  that this is a complaint that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
investigate.
The first point to note is that Mr W is not a pension expert and was relying on the advice that 
he was receiving from JLT on whether it was in his best interests to opt-out of the generous  
final salary scheme and then join the new money purchase scheme. If Mr W had not met 
JLT then in my opinion  he would have remained a member of the final salary  scheme.
I say that the final scheme was generous because it provided both a guaranteed pension  
from age 65 of 1/60th of the members final salary that would increase once in payment and 
also a lump sum benefit of 3/80ths  of final for each  year of service. In my experience most 
final salary schemes would allow pension to be given up for a lump  sum but very few will 
provide a pension accrual rate of one sixtieth and then provide a lump sum in addition.
I also note that the pension  accrued after 1 April 1997 was guaranteed to increase once in 
payment at a rate of 5% or the increase in the Retail Prices Index if lower. 
JLT has argued that the advice was given over a period of months  and that Mr W was fully 
engaged in the process and the discussions. However, in my opinion, the fact that the advice 
was given over a period of months and Mr W was fully engaged with the discussions does 
not make  it appropriate or guarantee that it is correct.
At the time of advice  Mr W was a member  of his companys  generous final salary scheme. 
This was becoming increasingly expensive for the employer. JLT had been  asked  by the 
employer to give tailored advice  to the members  of the final salary scheme on whether it was 
in their interest to remain in the final salary scheme or to opt out of it and to then join the new 
money purchase scheme that had been  introduced.
Mr W was contacted as part of this exercise.  JLT provided Mr W with a letter setting  out a 
comparison of the projected benefits  if he stayed in the final salary scheme or if he 
transferred to the new PPP for future benefits111111.
It is important  here to realise  that the apparent relative attractiveness  of the various options 
depends on the actuarial  assumptions  that are used. 
For example using a high rate of salary increase and a low investment return  will make  the 
final salary scheme benefits look attractive. But a high rate of investment return  combined 
with a low salary increase  assumption  will tend to favour the money purchase arrangement.
Ref: DRN61192956JLT wrote to Mr W on 22 September  1997 setting  out the total projected benefits on the 
three different bases  and using two different assumed growth rates  of 6% and 9%. A salary 
growth rate assumption of 3% was used.
The letter set out that if Mr W remained in the existing final salary scheme then at retirement 
the benefits payable would equate to 62.11% of his final pensionable salary.
It stated that if the accrued benefits  were transferred to a PPP then the projected benefits on 
retirement could be between 35.7% if investment returns were  6% p.a.c. or 86.6% if future  
investment returns were 9%.
On the basis of the figures set out in the letter from JLT Mr W decided to opt-out of the OPS 
and transfer the value  of his accrued benefits  to a section 32 plan. This action  was projected,  
on the higher  growth rate assumption of 9%, to give him the highest level of benefits on 
retirement. 
In my provisional decision I stated that the use of a 9% investment return  and a 3% salary 
increase assumption  was likely to make it appear that Mr W would benefit from opting out of 
the generous  final salary  scheme and then joining the less generous  money purchase 
scheme for future benefits.
I stated that had Mr W not been  contacted  by JLT he would have remained in the final salary 
scheme for as long as he could. This was because he was accruing more valuable  benefits 
and for a lower cost than he would get from the new money purchase scheme.
It is important  to note that the comparisons that had been  supplied  to Mr W assumed that he 
would contribute  5% of his salary to the new money purchase scheme whilst he only needed 
to pay 3.5%  towards  the current, more generous scheme. This would have  made the 
comparison unbalanced  as the costs of the two arrangements to Mr W were  not identical.
 
JLT did not agree with my provisional decision and believed that the assumptions that it had 
used were acceptable.
I note that some five years after Mr W joined the new money  purchase  scheme  he did leave 
his employer in 2002 when he decided to set up his own business. When  he left the 
employer, had he remained  a member of the final salary scheme, he would have received 
final salary benefits that were based  on a period of service of about  10 years.
It is also apparent that after a period  of self-employment Mr W rejoined his former employer 
on a higher salary.  However it has been confirmed  that at the time that he rejoined the 
employer the old final salary scheme  had been closed to new entrants and Mr W was only 
able to join the money purchase scheme.
As Mr W was unhappy with the advice that he had received from JLT to leave the generous 
final salary he complained first to JLT which rejected the complaint and then to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service.
I explained in my provisional decision  that I considered that the illustrations of the projected 
benefits that Mr W received from JLT were such that the benefits from the new money 
purchase arrangements would look very attractive when compared to the projected  benefits 
Ref: DRN61192957from the final salary scheme.  In my opinion the salary increase assumption was too low 
given the rate of future investment return being assumed. 
Whilst it is possible to use a range of assumptions when producing  illustrations I have 
compared the assumptions used by JLT with those that were issued by the regulator under 
the industrywide pension review  for determining redress where misselling  has been found to 
have arisen. These assumptions varied both over time and over term to retirement.
In the circumstances of this case the regulator stated that in 1997 an investment return to 
retirement of 9% should be used. This is in line with the assumption used by JLT. 9% was 
also the mid assumed growth rate that pension providers had to use when  providing  
illustrations of future benefits. However the regulator stated that future salary  increases 
should be at a rate of 6%. JLT had used a future salary growth assumption of 3%. The lower 
rate of salary increase  used by JLT would,  in my opinion, make  the projected  benefits from 
the money purchase arrangement appear  more attractive than the benefits from the final 
salary arrangement. 
It is important,  when  looking at the basis to use when producing illustrations and projections, 
to look at the long term and to ensure that the future  assumptions  used  are consistent with 
each other.  In my opinion  this what the regulator did under the industrywide  pension review. 
I do not consider  that the assumption of a 9% investment return  over the long term would be 
thought to be compatible with a long term 3% salary increase assumption. 
I also consider that the assumption  made by JLT that the accrued benefits would increase at 
5% p.a. from the date of leaving to the normal retirement date is inconsistent  with the 
assumption that salaries would increase at 3% p.a. This is because  it is generally expected 
that over the long term salaries will increase  faster than inflation so that if a future inflation 
assumption of 5 % is selected it would be appropriate to use a salary increase rate of 6% or 
more.
I do agree  with  JLT that the assumptions that it used in the comparisons were clearly stated 
but I do not consider that the assumptions used were balanced. There is no evidence that 
JLT explained to Mr W what happened  if the assumptions varied. Mr W was not a pension 
expert and would have not been  aware of the impact on the results that changing the 
assumptions could  have.
Whilst I note that JLT said that it looked  at the current rates  I do not consider that it was 
appropriate to use the current rates of investment return and the current rate increases in 
National Average Earnings if these were not expected to continue for the next 25 years.
Whilst I agree that there is no evidence that Mr W was aware  of what his future  salary  
increases would be there is no indication that JLT asked him what  he thought his future 
salary prospects actually  were likely  to be. 
I also note that when the level of accrued benefits was determined  by assuming that Mr W 
had opted out of the final salary scheme  and then joined  the new money  purchase  scheme.  
The accrued  benefits were  valued  on a leavers basis and the accrued benefits  were 
revalued at 5% p.a. The rate of revaluation of the deferred benefits would be expected  to be 
lower than the rate of salary increase.  Indeed in the pension review  the regulator stated that 
at the time of the advice  a future  inflation  assumption of 4.25% should  be used. The use of a 
future salary increase assumption  of 3% was too low and was not consistent  with the other  
assumptions made by JLT.
Ref: DRN61192958.
JLT has also argued that the benefits payable on death after the transfer  to the new 
arrangement would have been  greater but I have  seen no evidence that Mr W was in ill-
health or that he was concerned about the level of benefits payable on his death.
Another factor that had not been  allowed for was the fact that Mr W was required  to pay 
contributions of 3.5% of his pensionable  salary for the generous final salary benefits.  Under  
the new money purchase arrangement the benefits were shown on the assumption that     
Mr W paid contributions at a rate of 5% of his pensionable salary. This would mean that the 
projected benefits in the letter from JLT were  not based on similar contributions from Mr W. 
There is no evidence that Mr W was informed  of the impact of this small but significant 
difference in the assumed  level of his future contributions.
I have also noted  that the projected  pensions from after opting  out were  shown as varying 
between 35.7% of final salary and 86.6% of final salary. The higher  figure  was however not 
comparable with the benefits of 62.11% that was guaranteed by the existing scheme. This is 
because the 86.8% figure was based  on a non-increasing pension.  The pension  from the 
existing pension scheme would have provided guaranteed increases once in payment. In my 
opinion had the illustrations been given on a comparable basis (i.e. with the same  allowance 
for pension  increases) then in my opinion Mr W would not have opted out of the final salary  
scheme and would have stayed in it for as long as he could
I note that JLT has argued that the sale met the compliance rules that were in force at the 
time. I note that at the time JLT was regulated by the Personal  Investment Authority (PIA).  
The rules  in force at the time would have required that where  advice was being given to opt 
out of a generous final salary scheme  to join a less generous money purchase scheme  that 
the illustrations were fair and not misleading. Indeed in the Conduct Of Business rules 1995  
it states under The Core  Conduct of Business rules  that:
9     Fair and clear communications
1A firm may make a communication  with another person which  is designed  to promote 
the provision  of investment services  only if it can show that it believes on reasonable 
grounds that the communication  is fair and not misleading
I do not agree that the illustrations that Mr W received were fair and not misleading for the 
reasons given above. I therefore uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W has recently stated  that he has taken independent legal advice  that has cost him 
£5,000 and he would like compensation for the costs that he has incurred. 
It appears that in June  2016 Mr W appointed  solicitors to assist him in pursuing  his complaint 
against JLT. This was after JLT had sent Mr W a Final Response  Letter  that stated that if he 
was unhappy  with JLTs response he could take his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. This letter set out that this service is free to complainants.
There was in my opinion no need  for Mr W to appoint the solicitors  that he did to act on his 
behalf and it is therefore inappropriate for the Financial Ombudsman Service  to direct  that 
JLT should meet the legal costs that Mr W decided that he would incur. There  is no 
requirement for complainants to seek to get legal advice in bringing their complaint to this 
Ref: DRN61192959service. I therefore do not agree that the legal fees that have been incurred by Mr W should  
be refunded.
In my opinion the advice  to opt out of the final salary scheme was inappropriate and had    
Mr W received  appropriate advice from JLT he would  have  remained  a member of the final 
salary scheme for as long as he could.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome 
would be for JLT Actuaries and Consultants Limited  to put Mr W, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable  advice.
JLT Actuaries and Consultants Limited must  undertake a redress  calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review  guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017 on the assumption that Mr W remained in the final salary scheme for as long 
as possible.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision. 
JLT Actuaries and Consultants Limited may wish to contact the Department  for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State  Earnings  Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).  These  details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation,  which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%). So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that JLT pays the balance.
determination and money award :
I require JLT Actuaries and Consultants Limited to pay Mr W compensation as set out 
above, up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr W 
within 90 days of the date JLT Actuaries and Consultants Limited receives  notification  of his 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation amount 
Ref: DRN611929510at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes JLT Actuaries and Consultants Limited to pay      
Mr W this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
recommendation:
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend that JLT Actuaries and Consultants  Limited pays  Mr W the balance.  I further 
recommend interest  to be added to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any 
time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes JLT Actuaries and Consultants Limited to pay Mr W 
from the date it receives notification of his acceptance of the decision,  as set out above.
If Mr W accepts my determination,  the money award is binding on JLT Actuaries and 
Consultants Limited . My recommendation is not binding on JLT Actuaries and Consultants 
Limited. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr W may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6119295