K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 with a 
mortgage. Mr A and Ms M say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Halifax didnt make  Mr A and Ms M aware the PPI 
was optional. Considering what we know about how these policies were  sold at meetings at 
this time by Halifax, I havent  seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on 
this point. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think  its 
more likely that Halifax wouldve made Mr A and Ms M aware that the PPI was optional and 
that they chose  to take it.
 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr A and Ms M so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example they were  eligible  for the policy and werent  affected  by any of the exclusions  from 
or limits to the PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need  for the cover. I understand that 
Mr A and Ms M told us they had some  sick pay and savings that would have helped them for 
a while.  But the policy would have paid out for up to 24 months in the event of a successful 
claim. So, considering  all of this, and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting  on a 
loan secured on their home, I think Mr A and Ms M couldve found  the policy useful.
The policy  cost appears  to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr A and Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr A and Ms M has said but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A and Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Ref: DRN69976612Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6997661