K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about her hire agreement for a musical instrument with John Packer  Ltd 
(JP).
background
Mrs C says she rented a musical instrument  from JP in September 2011 with the intention of 
buying it after six months. She says until very recently she thought she had bought  it, but in 
March 2018 she discovered to her horror that shed been paying  £15 per month  to JP ever 
since. And she says the instrument cost £324,  but shes  now paid £1,350 in hire fees and 
still doesnt own it.
Mrs C also says its so obviously a mistake  on her part that she cant understand why, out of 
a sense of fairness  and courtesy, JP hadnt  been  in contact just to check she was aware of 
the situation. She says it would be easy for JP to generate an annual statement and contract 
reminder. And, she says in her view it was irresponsible of JP not to do so.
JP says Mrs Cs agreement was issued under its Rental Scheme with Purchase Option, 
which it says is very different from hire purchase. It says its a scheme  by which  the hirer can 
experience the pleasure of playing a musical  instrument  without  the commitment  of buying. It 
says the hirer can decide to buy it at a later date, the optimum time being  after the first six 
months, when, it says, all those payments can be deducted from the purchase price quoted 
on the agreement. And it says Mrs C signed the agreement, which points out that it doesnt, 
due to the high volume  of agreements JP operates, remind  the hirer that the standing order 
will remain  in place until they decide to purchase  the instrument or terminate  the agreement.
JP also says Mrs C arbitrarily stopped her standing order without notice and was 
consequently in breach of her rental agreement. However, it says because of the longevity of 
her hire and as a gesture  of goodwill,  it offered her the instrument without paying any arrears  
and it cancelled her agreement.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Cs complaint should  be upheld. She said JP should refund 
Mrs Cs monthly  payments, minus  the £324  cost of the instrument and £50 to cover  any 
administration costs  it may have incurred.  
JP disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. It said its been  running this hire scheme  for 
over 20 years and the hirers always made aware of the situation from day one, namely  that 
its purely a hire agreement that will run until the hirer either buys the instrument or returns  it. 
And it said surely theres an expectation  that the hirer will read the agreement  and that their 
signature on it confirms this.
JP also said its made perfectly  clear in the agreement that Mrs C wasnt buying  the 
instrument unless she notified it that was her intent and a settlement amount was agreed.  It 
said surely she wouldve been  aware  from her bank statements that she was still hiring the 
instrument. And it said it isnt aware of any onus on it to notify the hirer of a continuing 
agreement where  there have been no changes, such as an increase in cost. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN67326182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint,  and Ill explain why.
I see by the time Mrs C realised she was still making monthly payments of £15 to JP shed 
paid well over £1,000 for a musical instrument costing £324. And shed been making the 
payments for more  than six years. 
I note JP says it doesnt send out reminders to customers, due to the high volume of 
agreements it has. And I see Mrs Cs acknowledged  she made a mistake by not noticing  that 
the payments  were  still going out of her bank  account. But I think its reasonable to expect 
that JP wouldve sent Mrs C annual  account statements. And I think it was unfair  to continue 
accepting payments for such a long time without at any stage informing her of the status  of 
her account.
I also see Mrs C says she thought shed bought the instrument after shed made  payments  
equal to the purchase price. I note JP says the hirers always made  aware that its purely a 
hire agreement that will run until the hirer either buys the instrument or returns  it. And it says 
theres an expectation that the hirer will read the agreement.
But JP has a duty to make the terms of its agreements  clear. And I dont  think  the terms 
relating to the right to purchase the instrument  and how to exercise that right are set out 
sufficiently clearly in Mrs Cs agreement.  So, I think its understandable in the circumstances, 
that she mistakenly believed shed already bought the instrument. And I think this confusion  
wouldve been avoided  if JP had sent Mrs C annual account statements.
For these reasons, I think its fair and reasonable for me to require JP to refund the monthly 
payments Mrs Cs made to it, minus  the £324 cost of the instrument  and £50 to cover any 
administration costs  it may have incurred. And to remove  any adverse information about the 
agreement it may have put on her credit file.
So, I uphold  Mrs Cs complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against  John Packer Ltd. It must  refund her monthly payments, 
minus the £324  cost of the instrument  and £50 to cover any administration  costs it may have 
incurred. And it must remove  any adverse information about the agreement  from Mrs Cs 
credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ref: DRN67326183Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6732618