K822xComplaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a fixed term loan by The Trade Centre  Group Plc 
(TCG).
Background 
In October  2018 S Mr S visited TCG  looking to buy a car. He bought a newer version of the 
model he then owned.  The car was some 4 years old and cost £8,999. Mr S says he thought  
he was taking out a hire purchase agreement and only later discovered it was fixed  term 
loan.
TCG has set out in some detail the events surrounding the purchase of the car. It says that 
Mr S agreed to buy the car and paid a deposit of £100. He wanted the finance spread  over a 
lengthy period  to keep the payments as low as possible. It took his financial details and says 
it carried out a check  on these. Having obtained written  confirmation from Mr S that he 
wished to proceed it then obtained a quote from a lender I will call H. 
TCG says it provided full details of the loan and Mr S left the premises  and returned the 
following day to complete the transaction. TCG says it gave Mr S copies of the Credit 
Agreement and Pre-Contractual Information from H. He was also given a full explanation of 
the credit  agreement and terms,  including the amount of credit, type of agreement and what  
that meant.
TCG says that only after the agreement was properly explained was Mr S invited to sign it. 
Once the transaction was complete Mr S took the car away, but shortly afterwards he 
returned it saying  it was faulty.  He asked to be allowed  to reject it, but no fault could be 
found and his request was refused. Mr S has made a separate complaint to this service 
about Hs failure to let him reject  the car. 
TCG was open to Mr S buying a replacement car, but he was unable  to obtain  further 
finance. Later TCG agreed to buy the car back for £7,000 and this left him owing a little over 
£5,000. Mr S says he didnt think he would have to pay the outstanding interest.
Mr Ss complaint that he had been  mis-sold a fixed term loan was rejected by TCG which  
said it explained the finance  arrangements before he signed  the relevant papers. Mr S 
brought his complaint to this service and it was considered by one of our investigator who 
didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She said Mr S accepted  the offer made by TCG to buy back the car and this left him 
responsible for paying off the remaining balance of the sum owed to H. She said that the 
evidence which had been provided  didnt  suggest  the loan had been misrepresented  to Mr S 
by TCG.  She added that TCG had offered  a goodwill payment of payment in recognition of 
Mr Ss age and ill health.
Mr S didnt agree and said he thought  he was taking out a hire purchase agreement as he 
had a blue disability badge and he believed his disability  payments would meet  the cost. I 
gather a change  in the rules meant his disability payment  stopped the previous year.  He said 
that he hadnt sold the car back to TCG,  but this had been done by H. He had the £7,000 
and is using this to pay H until it runs out.
Ref: DRN64886882Mrs S also said that H had committed fraud by selling the car, the replacement car they were 
offered was no good and they should be paid £5,000 not £500. Finally she added that they 
were being  discriminated  because they were  pensioners. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr S and his wife and I appreciate they have found themselves 
in an unfortunate  position. However, I dont  consider  I can uphold  the complaint  against 
TCG. I will explain why.
I must explain  that this complaint is against  TCG and I cannot  deal with any complaint 
against H. That is being considered by another ombudsman. I would add that my powers 
only allow  me to consider  regulated activities and not any actions by TCG that are not 
finance related.  This means I havent  considered any actions  of TCG concerning  the supply 
of a replacement  car. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S have raised various issues  and they will be 
disappointed that I am unable to address these, but I can only operate within the powers 
given to me. 
This means  I am simply looking at whether the loan was mis-sold. Mr S says he assumed it 
was a hire purchase  agreement, but I have seen nothing to show me why he reached that 
conclusion. TCG has set out in detail the process  it followed and sent me copies of the 
papers given to Mr S and the ones  he signed.  The agreement is headed Fixed  Sum Loan 
Agreement and this has been  signed  by Mr S.
The records  show that TCG took Mr S through a fairly comprehensive  process including  a 
demands and needs  assessment. The process  was spread over two days and Mr S had 
chance to reflect on his decision.  I also note that several people  from TCG  were  involved 
and I consider that reduces the chances of an individual salesperson misleading Mr S. He 
hasnt specified  in what way the loan was mis-sold, only that he thought it was a hire 
purchase agreement.  As such I dont have enough evidence  to allow  me to uphold his 
complaint
My final decision
The Trade  Centre  Group Plc has already  made  an offer to pay £500 to settle  the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that The Trade Centre 
Group Plc should  pay £500. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6488688