K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Motor Market Ltd (Motor Market) have rejected his request to 
voluntarily terminate his finance agreement. Hes also upset that they set up a direct  debit 
without his authorisation and have not been supportive of his financial difficulties. Mr F adds 
that Motor Market were  wrong to make  comments about him on a website the wider public 
had access to.
background
Mr F has been  represented by his partner Ms M but for ease I will refer to Mr F throughout 
this decision, even though  some of the actions I refer to may have been  Ms Ms.
Mr F took receipt  of a used car in November 2017. He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Motor Market.  He says that theyve not allowed him to voluntarily 
terminate (VT) the agreement and that they set up a direct  debit  to pay for his road fund 
license without getting his permission.
Mr F had problems  making payments towards  his agreement with Motor Market.  He missed 
the first payment and the account was in arrears until the summer of 2018  and then again  
shortly afterwards. Motor Market then agreed a payment  plan with Mr F. But that payment  
plan failed so Motor Market agreed a further plan of £30 per week in December 2018  which  
also failed. Mr F thinks Motor Market could have been more  sympathetic to his position.  He 
says theyve made his life difficult by chasing him for payment and threatening court action 
and repossession.
Mr F is also upset  about some comments that he says Motor Market made on a website 
about him.
Motor Market has explained that they did set up a direct debit  for road fund license for Mr F. 
They said this was a service they offered for their customers  and explained that this must be 
done prior to any car leaving the dealership. They added that there  was always an option for 
Mr F to VT his agreement with them but to do this he would need to have paid at least half of 
the payments  due under his agreement and, as that point hadnt  yet been reached,  the 
option wasnt available to him.
They thought they had been sympathetic to Mr Fs financial situation and explained that 
theyd agreed repayment  plans and didnt repossess the car even though they could have as 
payments had been missed. The business  collected  the car in February 2019 and they 
provided pictures to show there was mould  on the car seats and that the front bumper was 
cracked but they explained that, whilst  they had a right to receive  the vehicle in a good 
condition under the terms of the hire purchase agreement, they were  prepared not to ask 
Mr F to pay refurbishment charges to return the car to a satisfactory condition for sale.
But Mr F didnt  think  theyd done  enough.  He referred his complaint to this service and a 
couple of views were  provided  by our investigators. They thought the business  had been 
responsive and sensitive to Mr Fs financial problems and noted that they had tried to assist 
by not repossessing  the vehicle and generating repayment plans. They didnt think there was 
any evidence to suggest the business  shouldnt have arranged a direct debit for the road 
fund license and explained that there  was no financial benefit in them doing so if Mr F hadnt 
asked for it. The investigators also considered Mr Fs request he be allowed  to VT the deal. 
They agreed with him and explained that he didnt  need to have already paid half off the 
Ref: DRN64073812amount due under the agreement. He simply needed to agree to do that and to give the car 
back. They suggested that, as the car had now been returned, it was for Mr F to agree a 
repayment plan with Motor Market to pay the remaining debt to get to the half way point. 
But Mr F disagreed with the investigator he said hed got in a lot of debt because of the 
actions of Motor Market and he said he should  have been allowed to VT his agreement in 
July 2018 when he initially asked to do so. He said the account  wasnt in arrears  then so he 
wouldnt be in arrears  now if hed VTd. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Fs financial difficulties. I agree that he should  be allowed to VT 
his agreement but I dont think theres  evidence that Motor Market havent  been sympathetic 
to his situation and I dont  think  its fair to say they were wrong to set up the direct debit. I 
know that will disappoint Mr F, who I understand  wants to be compensated for these issues, 
so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
financial difficulties
Mr F has been  open with Motor Market about the fact hes been  struggling financially. In 
those circumstances  Id expect the business to be sympathetic and supportive. 
But here I think Motor Market have been.  I can see that theyve agreed several repayment 
plans and have  regularly not applied interest  or charges to the account. I can also see that 
theyve avoided repossessing the vehicle. They could clearly have done this as Mr Fs 
account was in significant arrears. The hire purchase agreement also requires the car to be 
returned in a good condition and theres  an expectation that, if it isnt, the customer  can be 
held accountable for refurbishment costs. Motor  Market  havent made these  charges but Ive 
seen pictures of the condition of the car which would suggest they could have justified  them. 
So I think the business have been sympathetic  here as well and I dont think theres  
evidence that they havent behaved sympathetically or given appropriate support. 
the direct  debit
I can understand that the business would have to establish this payment if they were to 
release the car from the dealership and I dont think Ive been provided with information to 
suggest anything  irregular has happened. Its clearly of no benefit for the business to 
establish the direct debit  if they werent  authorised  to do so and Mr F would have had to do 
this anyway or he wouldnt have been able to take receipt of the car. So I dont think  theres 
evidence that the business did anything wrong here.
Ref: DRN64073813the request to VT
the finance agreement said:
you have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the person you make 
the payments  to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total 
amount payable under this agreement. That is £3,779.25
But Mr F didnt  have  to have paid half of the amount before he could VT. He could agree to 
do that; return the car and pay any refurbishment charges.
Mr F asked  to VT in July and Motor  Market didnt allow  him to as they wrongly thought  hed 
have to have paid half of the sums  due. But Im not persuaded Mr F has lost out as a result.  I 
think its likely he wasnt in a position  to pay half of the amount due in July. I say that 
because hes fallen  back into arrears  since then. So I think the requirement  is still the same, 
although the balance due has reduced  a little.
So I think the best resolution is to allow Mr F to voluntarily terminate his agreement.  The car 
has already been  handed  back and Motor Market have agreed to waive any refurbishment  
charges on the car. Mr F will therefore be responsible for the balance of the agreement until 
hes paid £3,779.25: half the total amount payable under it.
comments made on the website
The General  Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is the new legislation that protects how 
peoples information  is used, and gives them more rights and control over how organisations 
use their data. It replaces  the Data Protection  Act 1998. Its not our role to decide  if a 
business has breached data protection  laws. This is for the Information Commissioners  
Office (ICO) to decide. The ICO can be contacted  at www.ico.org.uk or called on 0303 123 
1113 should Mr F wish to pursue a complaint with them.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and tell Motor Market Ltd to allow  Mr F to voluntarily terminate 
his finance agreement with them and to agree  a reasonable payment plan for the 
outstanding balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6407381