K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) unfairly 
cancelled his motor  insurance policy.
When dealing with his policy  and complaint Mr As been helped  by his mum. But for ease of 
reading Ill refer to her actions and comments as being Mr As.
Reference to Watford  includes its agents.
background
Mr A had an accident. While looking into that Watford became  aware  his car had some 
modifications. It said that if hed told it about those modifications it wouldn't ever have 
insured the car. So it cancelled the policy. Watford  said that it wouldn't  cover  Mr A for the 
accident and he would  need to reimburse it for the costs it incurred settling the other  drivers  
claim.
Mr A didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. I issued a provisional  decision 
on 13 July 2020.  For ease I've reproduced my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it. 
Mr A initially  had a different car insured on his policy. In November 2018 he asked to change 
the car on it. When doing so Watford asked him if the new car had any modifications. Mr A 
said I don't  think so. But later in the same call he told it that the car had a dashcam,  a non-
standard alarm  and that one of the cars  ports had been disabled,  which  I understand makes 
it more difficult to steal. Watford told Mr A that, apart  from the dashcam, it wouldn't cover any 
modifications and that the alarm and the port disablement would  need  to be removed.  Mr A 
agreed to do that and Watford  added  the car to the policy.
After the accident  an engineer inspected Mr As car. He noted  that the car had some non-
factory fitted decals  (stickers). And Watford said that if Mr A had told it about those, and 
about its alloy wheels  and a non-standard air vent, then it wouldnt have insured the car. It 
then cancelled the policy and refused to deal with the claim. So, Ive looked to see if it did so 
fairly.
Watford has shown us details from its underwriting criteria - the rules  it follows when 
deciding whether or not to offer cover  - which say that it wont  cover modified cars, including 
things like decals. So if it had known about  the decals and other modifications it wouldn't  
ever have insured  the car. But that doesn't mean it cancelled the policy  fairly.
It might help if I explain that when buying or varying (amending) an insurance policy the 
consumer is required to take reasonable care to answer an insurers question  to the best of 
their knowledge.  If the consumer doesn't do so thats known in the insurance industry as a 
qualifying misrepresentation. And theres some  helpful legislation:  the Consumer  Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) that sets out what  insurers may 
consider to be a misrepresentation  and what they may do when a policyholder has made  
one. 
Ref: DRN63163372CIDRA says that where a consumer  has carelessly,  deliberately or recklessly  made  a 
misrepresentation then the insurer may void (cancel) the policy and refuse  to pay any claims 
made against it. So I need to decide  if Mr A made  a misrepresentation.
When looking at changing the car on the policy Watford asked Mr A has there been any 
modifications [to the car]. Watford didn't explain what it meant by modifications. Mr A said 
he didn't think so. But he later told Watford about the dashcam, disabled port and alarm,  
which he clearly realised  werent standard. 
Mr As since  said that he didn't know that the decals, alloy wheels  or anything else that was 
on the car when he bought it werent factory fitted.  He said lots of other cars of the same 
model have similar features and that he didn't know that those werent standard and 
amounted to modifications. So thats  why he said his car didn't  have  any such  modifications.
At the time Mr A added  the car to his policy the car was over eighteen years old and Mr A 
was still a teenager  himself. And Mr As told us that the modifications that Watford has 
objected to were all on the car when he bought it. And I don't think  Mr A could reasonably  be 
expected to know what factory fitted  options  were available when the car was ordered from 
new. In other  words, I accept that he didn't know that the decals, air vent and alloy wheels 
werent factory fitted from a list of the manufacturers  options available at the time.  Also Mr A 
told us that the wheels  are branded in the name of the cars manufacturer  so he had no 
reason to believe that those werent an option  the manufacturer offered some eighteen years 
previously. 
Further, I note that when the independent  engineer assessed Mr As car the only 
modification he identified  were the decals. So it appears that the engineer didn't appreciate 
that the wheels or any other  extras - other  than the decals - werent factory fitted. Because if 
he had I think he would  have referred to those  in the section headed mods. But he didn't. 
So I don't think  the alloy wheels or the air vent were obvious modifications. But even  if they 
were obvious to Watford that doesn't mean  they were obvious  to Mr A.
Also I've noted  that Mr A did tell Watford about  the modifications he was aware of on the car. 
That is he told it about the dashcam, disabled port and the alarm.  So I think  that if hed 
realised that Watford  would likely consider  the decals and other extras  were modifications  
hed have told it about them. I dont think Mr A would  have known that Watford would refuse 
to cover such modifications - which  don't offer any performance enhancement  while  telling 
it about other modifications. Thats because I don't think he would have had anything to gain 
in telling it about some modifications and not others.  In contrast  he certainly had something 
to lose by not telling it about any modifications he knew about. Thats because  as 
happened  he would  have run the risk of having  a claim refused and the policy  cancelled.
It follows that, while Mr A didn't answer  the question about the modifications  in the manner 
Watford would have  liked, I think Mr A took reasonable care to answer  Watfords  question to 
the best of his knowledge. And in those circumstances I don't think he made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. So I don't think it was fair for Watford to cancel his policy for the reasons  
it did.
In order to put things  right I think Watford should  reinstate Mr As policy as if it hadn't  
cancelled it. And it should  deal with any outstanding  claims  in line with the policys  remaining 
terms and conditions. If it settles a claim in Mr As favour and makes a payment to him it 
should add simple interest to that settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr As 
claim to the date it makes  payment.
Ref: DRN63163373Mr A told us that Watfords cancellation of his policy has had a significant effect on him and 
he struggled to find an insurer that would insure him because  Watford cancelled  the policy 
and that in turn affected his day-to-day  activities. So to address his distress  and 
inconvenience arising from Watford unfairly  cancelling his policy,  I think  it should pay him 
£500 compensation.
Neither Watford nor Mr A provided  any comments disputing my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. 
As neither Watford nor Mr A objected to my provisional findings I see no reason to change  
them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Watford  Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to:
Reinstate Mr As policy as if it hadn't cancelled it. It should deal with any outstanding 
claims in line with the policys remaining terms and conditions. If it settles a claim in 
Mr As favour it should add simple interest  to that settlement at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date of Mr As claim to the date it makes payment.1
Pay Mr A £500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Mr A has accepted my final decision. 
If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Watford considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6316337