K822xcomplaint
Mr B has brought this complaint  on behalf of himself  and the estate of Mrs B. The complaint 
is about a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy that was sold to Mr B and Mrs B by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) alongside  a mortgage. 
I know that when  the PPI was sold, Lloyds was trading  as Cheltenham  & Gloucester. But to 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Lloyds for the rest of this decision. 
I just want to be clear that the decision Im making is about whether PPI was mis-sold to 
Mr B and Mrs B alongside their mortgage. I can see that Mr B has been talking to our 
adjudicator about  some  more general issues with his mortgage. Im not looking at that. Im 
just looking at PPI. 
background 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold by Lloyds. But she thought Lloyds  
should give back some  of the commission  it received  from the premiums Mr B and Mrs B 
had paid. I can see that Mr B wasnt happy with our adjudicators  view.  So the matter has 
been given to me so I can make a final decision on the PPI complaint.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I know Mr B feels very strongly  about the issues hes raised  with us. And Ive thought really 
carefully about all hes told us. But I think the offer that Lloyds  made to him is a fair way to 
settle this complaint. Ill explain why in some more  detail  below.  
Its not entirely clear  to me how PPI was sold to Mr B and Mrs B. Ive been  given  a copy of 
the mortgage application form, which says that Lloyds would automatically send a PPI quote 
out to Mr B and Mrs B. So I think the cover  was added after they applied for the mortgage. 
I think its important for me to say that I know what Mr B has told us is what  he honestly  
remembers about how PPI was sold to him. But I also know  its difficult  to remember  
precisely what happened almost 30 years  ago, which is when this policy was sold.  
I know Mr B told us that he wouldnt have taken  the PPI policy out if hed been  offered it. So 
he says he knows Lloyds  couldnt have talked about the cover to him. Ive thought carefully  
about what Mr B said about  this. And I know he doesnt now remember, but the evidence  
Ive seen suggests he made a claim under this policy. So at the time, I think  he probably 
knew about it. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr B and Mrs B would have known they didnt have to buy 
this PPI if they didnt  want it. As it was probably  sold to them after they took their mortgage  
out, I dont  think theyd have thought it was a condition  of their mortgage.   
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats a harder test for Lloyds to meet because it had to 
make sure the policy was suitable for Mr B and Mrs Bs needs.  To help me decide whether it 
Ref: DRN65351872was suitable, Ive looked at what Mr B told us about their personal  circumstances at the time. 
Ive looked at the paperwork Lloyds  sent to us. And Ive also thought  about  the policys  rules. 
I can see that the PPI was set up to cover Mr B only. And that would probably  be the right 
way to set the policy up. I say that because only Mr B was working and Mrs B had a pension. 
So as Mrs B wasnt working, a PPI policy wouldnt  have been helpful  for her. If Mr B had to 
make a claim, hed have  been covered for up to 12 months for each claim if hed lost his job 
or if he was too unwell to work.  
I can see that when  Mr B and Mrs B took this policy  out, Mr B had been working in his job for 
almost over a year. Given how long Mr B had worked or that employer, I dont think  hed 
have got full sick pay for over 12 months. So I think its likely the PPI would  have paid out for 
longer than his sick pay would  have  lasted. 
I know Mr B told us that he had some  savings. And so Ive thought about whether Mr B could 
have used that money to pay the mortgage if he was out of work. But with PPI, I think  Mr B 
could have used  those savings on his other essential expenses  at what  would  have been  a 
very worrying time for him if he was out of work.  
Mr B told us he didnt have any health conditions  when he bought  this cover.  So I dont think  
hed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent 
seen anything unusual  about his employment  circumstances that would have stopped him 
from making a successful claim if he needed to. And Lloyds told us he had made such a 
claim in or around 2006. 
Thinking about  all of these things, I think the PPI was probably suitable for Mr Bs needs. 
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Mr B enough  information about the PPI so he could decide 
for himself whether it was a good  fit for his needs.  As we cant  say definitely how the PPI 
was sold, I think its possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr B everything it should  have done about 
it. But I think the cover could have been helpful  to Mr B if hed been  out of work. So I dont  
think he and Mrs B would  have acted differently if hed been  given more or better information 
about the PPI. 
This all means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But Lloyds will pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B and Mrs B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr B and Mrs B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr B and the Estate of Mrs B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back any extra  
interest Mr B and Mrs B paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr B and the Estate of Mrs B the extra  that was paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Ref: DRN65351873Lloyds should  also pay Mr B and the Estate of Mrs B 8%* simple  interest  on each payment 
(15% on payments before  April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B and the Estate  of Mrs B can claim  back  the tax if 
they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B and the Estate of Mrs B. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr B and the Estate of Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B and 
the Estate  of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before  28 April 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
  
Ref: DRN6535187