K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Mr S complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV)  has not settled 
a medical invoice relating to an insurance claim by the late Mr S. And the estate is being 
repeatedly chased  for the debt. 
There are two representatives of the estate of Mr S, and they have given their permission for 
Mrs S to bring this complaint on behalf of the estate. So I will refer to all submissions as 
having been made by Mrs S. 
background
The late Mr S was taken  ill while abroad in the USA during  2016  and made  a claim for 
medical expenses  and repatriation to the UK. And he passed away  in September  2017. URV 
ultimately agreed to settle the claim, but followed  its cost containment process  when settling 
the medical bills with the medical providers. This has resulted in the majority of the bills not 
being settled in full. 
One of the medical providers, which I will refer to as provider B, has received  a payment of 
$705.27 from URV, towards  an invoice totalling  $1,660. This leaves a shortfall of $954.73 
which provider B has continued to pursue from the estate. 
Mrs S has shown  that the estate has received debt collection letters in relation to the unpaid  
portion of provider  Bs bill. And she has said that one of the representatives  of the estate  
received so many calls and voicemails  about the debt, that he felt he had to cancel his 
voicemail facility. 
Mrs S complained to URV about the repeated chasers the estate was receiving from debt 
collectors in relation to the outstanding account  with provider B. 
URV responded and set out the amount it had paid towards each of the invoices. With 
regard to provider  B, it said it had received  the invoice totalling  $1,660  and had determined  
that a reasonable charge  for the treatment received by the late Mr S was $705.27. 
It confirmed it had paid that amount to the provider and said it disputed that anything further 
was due as it found  the remainder of the charges to be unfair  and unreasonable.
URV said it was sorry that the estate continued to be chased by debt collectors.  It confirmed 
the estate was not liable for the debt and said it could issue  a form asking the debt collectors 
to correspond only with URV.
Unhappy with URVs response, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. And so the case  
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
I provided URV with a copy  of a letter the estate received from a debt collector in relation to 
provider Bs invoice. URV said the original bill was cost contained, leaving an amount of 
$954.73 unpaid.  It said it was unwilling to pay this and said it thought  provider B had charged  
an unjust amount for its services. However  it evidenced that it had written to the debt 
collector advising that the estate was not liable for the bill, and asking for all correspondence  
to be sent directly to URV and not to the estate.
I thought URV had acted unfairly  in this case, so I issued a provisional  decision as set out 
below.
Ref: DRN61881352my provisional decision  
As a matter of general legal principle, URV  is bound to indemnify the estate against losses  
covered by the policy as and when the amount of the loss (here  the amount of the estates  
liability to the medical  provider) has been ascertained.  That may be by agreement, by court 
judgment or by arbitration. So URV  has a commercial interest in being able to take over the 
defence and settlement of such claims in the name of the estate. 
URVs policy terms say it can:
take over and deal with in your name  the defence/settlement of any claim made  
under the policy
In effect, this means URV  has the right to take over the conduct of a claim  defending  or 
settling it  in the name the estate.  But that isnt an unqualified right.  
Legally, in situations where  URVs interests  conflict with those of The estate of Mr S, URV 
has a responsibility  to act in good  faith when it takes over the defence/settlement of a claim 
 having regard to the estates interests as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt 
entitled to act arbitrarily  in the way it goes  about declining to pay the full amount of the 
invoice and contesting the outstanding  amount. In deciding whether  and how  to defend  
possible legal action  against the estate,  URV  is required to base its decisions on the 
circumstances of the estates individual case. 
The applicable  regulations lead to a similar conclusion. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and its 
customers and between  a customer and another client.  
The relevant  regulations  also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1)handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2)provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress;
(3)not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and 
(4)settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide,  published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities  of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance 
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses (the Principles)  and the detailed rules 
require providers and distributors of financial services in certain  circumstances to treat 
customers fairly. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the impact of their actions, 
or inactions, on the customer throughout the life-cycle of the service  being provided. 
Ref: DRN61881353Ive also taken into account what I consider to have been good industry practice  at the time 
of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance  and their agents   to engage 
diligently with medical providers to try to resolve  disputes over bills by actively seeking 
a compromise or adjudication of their bills. That includes  actively engaging in negotiation. 
Ill now explain what this means for this complaint.  
URV says the USA government annually issues the congressional guidelines (the 
guidelines) which set out the suggested rates of payment for medical procedures and 
treatment. URV says it uses the guidelines as a benchmark when deciding  whether the 
amounts charged  are reasonable. It says it then pays a certain  percentage above  this, which 
its disclosed to our Service.
URV has accepted  responsibility for the sums properly  due under  the invoices and hasnt 
said that any of the procedures  which are itemised on the invoices shouldnt have been  
charged for  or shouldnt be paid at all. It has simply said that the amounts charged are 
unreasonably excessive. However  URV  hasnt provided me with any explanation or 
breakdown to explain its assertion that the charges made by provider B are excessive. 
As I havent  been  provided with a clear explanation of how URV has assessed what 
a reasonable payment would be, Im not persuaded the invoices are excessive  or out of line 
with what might be charged.
But in any case,  Im not satisfied it has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it has handled  
the estate of Mr S claim. 
The policy allows  URV to take over, and deal with the defence/settlement of any claim made 
under the policy  against Mr S or his estate. But I expect it to do so in a fair and reasonable 
way  and I must have  regard to the law, the relevant industry rules and regulations,  and 
good practice. URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly and to act with due 
skill, care and diligence,  paying due regard  to the estates interests  and treating it fairly.  
I dont think its done that in this case. 
URV took a unilateral decision to only pay part of the invoice. And I havent seen any 
evidence that it discussed its approach with the representatives of The estate of Mr S before 
doing so. After being made aware  the estate was still being chased by a debt collector, URV 
wrote a letter setting  out its position on the bill and asked for all correspondence to be sent 
to URV directly and not to the estate. 
But in the letter to the debt collector, I havent seen any evidence that URV has attempted to 
enter into negotiation to bring the matter to a close. Ive also seen no evidence that URV 
entered into a meaningful negotiation with provider B. 
Whilst nobody could  suggest that negotiation will lead to a reasonable settlement being 
achieved in every  case, in many cases it may do so; and Ive seen nothing  to suggest that it 
couldnt have  been productive  here.  Before  negotiation is abandoned in a case  like this, 
I would normally expect  to see an insurer explain  and justify  its position by reference to the 
particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives,  and advance  arguments 
addressed to the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the healthcare  provider to 
accept the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise. But here URV 
has made no such efforts.
Ref: DRN61881354Bearing in mind the rules and regulations set out above, I havent seen any evidence that 
URV has attempted to negotiate  with the hospital  or the debt collector. And it didnt actively 
seek a compromise or actively  engage in negotiation. So I consider this to be unreasonable  
and unfair  to the estate of Mr S. 
URV needs to act fairly in each individual case. It also has a duty to fairly manage  any 
conflicts between its own interests and those of the estate. I dont think  it has had due regard  
to the estates interests here. And I think it has unreasonably put its own commercial  
interests above those  of the estate without  considering its specific  circumstances. 
The amount  in dispute is $954.73  which isnt a substantial sum. URV has paid just over 
40% of the full amount  requested by the hospital.
I dont think its fair to continue to subject the estate  of Mr S to a protracted dispute  over such 
a comparatively small amount when considering the length of time this has gone  on for  
Mr S received the treatment in 2016  and the continuing inconvenience the repeated 
communications about this dispute  are causing the estate.  
Ive considered what URV has said. But URV  doesnt have the absolute  right to partially 
settle or defend a case in accordance with its own practices or interests  it still must act 
fairly and reasonably when doing so  and must have  regard  to the interests  of the 
policyholder. I dont think its done  that here. 
The estate  of Mr S is being chased regularly by debt collectors who are threatening legal 
action. And URV has told the estate to ignore the debt collectors and simply forward  any 
correspondence on to it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable for the executors or 
representatives to have to continue to deal with this. The late Mr S purchased  travel  
insurance which covers medical attention and he wouldnt have expected  to be exposed, 
without a very good reason (which  I dont consider URV has demonstrated), to continuing 
action from debt collectors and threats of litigation years after visiting  an overseas hospital  
and meeting the excess under the policy - and looking  at all the circumstances  of this case, 
URV doesnt seem to have considered the impact  of this. 
putting things  right
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant  the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which  in this case  is 
URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R also provides  that a direction may require  the respondent, here URV, to take 
such steps in relation  to the complainant as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court  could order those  steps to be taken.
I accept that, because provider Bs bill hasnt been  agreed or adjudicated, there isnt an 
ascertained legal liability on the estate  to pay the balance of the bill, so URVs duty to 
indemnify the estate  by paying  that balance hasnt been triggered. But in this particular case, 
Im persuaded its fair and reasonable for URV to do so  particularly given that the amount 
in dispute isnt particularly substantial.
Thats because,  for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think there is sufficient evidence 
that the invoices were  grossly excessive, and I dont  think URV has acted fairly and 
Ref: DRN61881355reasonably in the way in which it has taken over the handling of the defence or settlement of 
the healthcare  providers  claim against  The estate of Mr S.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may be possible for URV to 
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the healthcare  provider and agree a figure  
less than the outstanding  amount.  However, its had three years to do so, and hasnt. And so 
in the circumstances of this particular case,  Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for 
URV to settle the outstanding amount  without further delay. 
responses to my provisional  decision  
Mrs S accepted the provisional decision on behalf of The estate of Mr S. 
URV asked  for more  time to consider  the provisional  decision,  which  I granted. But it didnt 
provide any comments.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  points  have  been raised, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  set out 
in my provisional decision above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision that I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to 
pay the outstanding amount of provider  Bs invoice for $1,660  together with any interest 
due on the outstanding amount and any collection fees the estate is liable for. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6188135