K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complained that he didnt  receive a refund from Highway Insurance Company Limited  
(HICL) when he cancelled  his commercial vehicle policy.
background
Mr F took out a commercial policy with HICL as he planned to rent out his motorhome. He 
said this didnt happen and so decided  to cancel his policy  a few months later.  But was 
unhappy when  HICL said there  was no refund due under the policy. 
Mr F complained to HICL  because the policy document said he was due a pro rata refund  as 
long as he hadnt claimed. HICL  said this was a generic booklet and the policy  had a specific 
endorsement - due to the type of policy  that says he wouldnt get a refund if the policy was 
cancelled in the first year.  It said the broker had made this clear to Mr F when he bought the 
policy. 
Mr F remained unhappy and brought the complaint to us. He said the documents were  
confusing and thought he should  get a pro rata refund. HICL said the risk the policy  covered  
was typically short-term  periods of hire. So, to be fair to all its customers  it priced  the policy 
on the basis that no refunds were allowed. 
Our investigator thought HICL had acted  in line with the terms set out in the endorsement. 
So, she didnt think HICL  needed to refund Mr F. Mr F still thought he should receive some 
refund and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr F has also complained about  the actions of his broker  in making  this term 
clear to him. Thats been dealt with separately and in this decision Im only going to consider 
what HICL might, or might  not, have done wrong.  
Mr Fs policy document and summary  document says if his policys  cancelled  hell receive a 
pro rata refund as long as no claims have been made. However, his policy schedule has an 
endorsement that says he wont get a refund if the policy  is cancelled  within  the first year.  
I can understand why Mr Fs frustrated  that his documents  say different things. But I think  
the policy documents need to be read as a whole,  along with the other  information  he was 
provided with them.
I can see theres an Important Information  document that told Mr F he needed to pay 
specific attention  to the endorsements document. This endorsement  overrides the terms in 
the policy booklet, as it specifically relates  to his level of cover. And Im satisfied this 
endorsement is also clear  within the schedule. 
HICLs explained that motorhomes tend to be hired out on a short-term or seasonal  basis.  
And HICL  doesnt  provide short-term policies  for this. To avoid customers  buying a policy 
and cancelling  it after letting  their motorhome for a few months, HICL said it sells the policy  
Ref: DRN65131662on the basis that its non-refundable. Having considered HICLs explanation for this, I think 
thats reasonable. 
I understand Mr F said he didnt end up letting the motorhome,  but HICL  was still on risk as 
its insurer. So, Mr F did have the benefit of the cover.
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr F was hoping for but Im satisfied HICLs acted fairly, 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, Im not going to ask it 
to do anything differently.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6513166