K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 2000, a year after taking out a store card.  He applied for the store 
card in branch.  As the PPI policy was taken out a year later it looks  like this was taken out 
over the phone.
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a fitness instructor. He has told us he was entitled to six 
months full followed  by six months half sick pay. He says he was also entitled to 
redundancy pay. Mr H has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment, hospitalisation and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Mr Hs store  card balance 
in the event of Mr H being unable to work due to accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
The policy also provided purchase and price protection for any products bought using the 
card.  Mr H hasnt complained about  this element of the insurance policy so I will not 
consider it further  in this decision. 
At the time,  the policy cost £1.00 per £100  of the monthly outstanding  balance. 
Mr Hs representative has made a specific representation on his behalf. Mr Hs 
representative says the policy excluded or limited claims for stress, which  is one of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  As the 
complaint couldnt  be resolved informally, it has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
Ref: DRN66744402practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not FICL. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If FICL  gave advice, whether it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether FICL gave  Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and FICL, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
Mr H says the policy was sold during an interaction in a store  at the same  time he took out 
his store  card. FICL says the PPI was sold during a telephone call a year after Mr H took the 
card out. FICL has provided a copy of Mr Hs application form, and I can see on there he 
didnt opt to take out the PPI. So I think its likely  to have been sold during a telephone call 
after Mr H had the card. 
During that telephone call, FICL should  have taken  reasonable steps to make  Mr H aware 
the policy was optional. Mr H says he was not aware  he had taken PPI. 
Ref: DRN66744403Unfortunately FICL hasnt  been able to provide  any further information - such as a recording 
of that telephone call or a copy of the call script  used at the time. So its not possible for me 
to know exactly what was said at the time this policy was taken out. But based on what  I do 
know of the sales  process  at the time, the fact Ive not seen enough to make  me think FICL  
did anything different in Mr Hs case and given the fact the PPI was added a year after he 
applied for the store  card, I think Mr H would have understood  the policy was optional when 
he chose to take it.
So overall, I think its more likely  that Mr H knew the policy  was optional and he agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did FICL provide  advice?
Both FICL and Mr H agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  FICL didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr H. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr H to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
As Ive mentioned  above FICL has provided  us with Mr Hs application form showing that 
PPI hadnt been selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says he 
wouldve received  after the phone call, including the policy terms and conditions  which  I 
accept on a balance  of probabilities  applied to policies like Mr Hs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr H at the time, I dont think FICL gave Mr H the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  over the phone. I dont know what FICL told Mr H about  the PPI but I 
think its unlikely he would  have  agreed to take it out without at least  having a broad 
understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. And I think its unlikely Mr H would  have thought it was free.
But it was FICLs responsibility  to draw to Mr Hs attention the important information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
I dont think its likely  FICL did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr H, including that the payments would attract interest.  
In addition, its unlikely  FICL adequately drew to his attention the main  provisions of the 
policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think FICL  gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN66744404I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
what effect did FICLs shortcomings have on Mr H? To what extent  did Mr H suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that FICL did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr H suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr H would have 
still taken out the policy,  had FICL done things properly. 
Mr H says he would not have taken it out. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr H had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr H chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr H thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr H has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr H ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
is likely  to have been set out during the telephone  call. But, I accept that FICL didnt make  
clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mr H didnt know  some  things, the ultimate 
position in the event  of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he would  reasonably 
have thought from the information he based  his decision  to take out the policy on and found 
acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant difference between what Mr H thought he had bought and what 
he actually bought was the policy contained  limitations on claims relating to mental health 
conditions placing more  onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds. I do accept  that there  is a possibility that this limitation  might  well have caused     
Mr H pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude that the policy  was not 
as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the policy. I also 
accept mental health conditions  are common problems as Mr Hs representative has said.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Mr H has told us that he wouldve had six months  full 
and six months half sick pay benefits from his employer. And that he didnt have any 
savings, or other means, he couldve relied on to make his repayments.  The PPI wouldve  
paid out alongside his employee benefits.  This meant he couldve used those to pay for 
other essential costs  if he was too unwell to work  or became unemployed. I also havent 
seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions 
Ref: DRN66744405 Mr H didnt have  any pre-existing  medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. 
So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr H would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6674440