K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy about the fee Dooneen  Ltd, trading as McGinness Associates (Dooneen),  
has charged her for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claims. 
background
In March 2017, Miss S asked Dooneen  to pursue the mis-selling of PPI with her PPI 
providers. She had a number  of successful claims, but Miss S said she wasnt  happy  that 
Dooneen has charged her a success fee of 30% plus VAT. The fee she said should have 
been capped at 20% plus VAT.
Miss S also said shed asked Dooneen  not to pursue one particular PPI provider as she held 
a trust deed with them. Miss S didnt want the trust deed affected  by any claim.  But the claim 
against the PPI provider  was successfully made, and part of the compensation was offset 
against her outstanding debt. 
Miss S doesnt feel all of the fee being asked for by Dooneen should  be paid, as she didnt 
receive the full compensation amount. And said shed had to chase and contact the PPI 
provider shed the trust deed with, so feels shed done most  of the work, not Dooneen.
Miss S said she never got, despite  asking for, a detailed  invoice  of the work done by 
Dooneen to justify the fee being  asked  for. And that she was regularly contacted  by 
telephone despite asking  for all communication to be made by email.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator
Our investigator found Dooneen had calculated their fees in line with the contract Miss S had 
signed.This contract said the success fee was 30% plus VAT. Because of this he felt that 
Dooneen had acted reasonably. 
Miss S disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. I know this isnt the response  Miss S was hoping for so Ill explain why.
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce  a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force  on 10 July 
2018. From  this date,  claims  management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success  fee 
of more than 20% plus VAT.
Ref: DRN63708482The agreement signed by Miss S, in March 2017,  was on a No win No fee basis.  This 
means Dooneen charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon  the amount of 
work they actually did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. Where  a claim was successful, Dooneen s fee may be more or less than the value of 
the work  they actually did. This is the risk taken  by all parties in this type of agreement.  So, 
even if Dooneens  fee is higher than the value of the work Miss S says it has done, it doesnt  
make its fee unjustified. 
In the terms and conditions of the agreement Dooneen set out its fee as being 30% plus 
VAT. It also gave an example of what the monetary  value  of the fee would be, and what 
payment its client would get. It went on to provide an example where an offset of any 
compensation is made against an outstanding debt with the PPI provider:  
If the Company succeeds  in obtaining Compensation of £3.000 and there is £1000 of 
arrears on the account which is offset by the Provider, the Fee would be £600
+VAT = £720  and the Client would  receive £1280 (£3000 less £1000 arrears  less £720 fee
So, I think Dooneen have  been clear about  the fee that it would apply on a successful claim.  
And the fee was agreed before the introduction of the fee cap so its entitled to charge more 
than the 20% cap.
Miss S said she asked Dooneen  on a number of occasions to stop pursuing one particular 
PPI provider. But Miss S had agreed in March  2017 for it to submit  a claim to this PPI 
provider. And it wasnt until after the PPI provider  had said it would  offset any compensation 
that Miss S asked Dooneen  to stop the claim.  I can see Dooneen did ask Miss S for 
permission to challenge the offset,  but when  she said she didnt want this they stopped this 
action. 
As outlined  above,  Dooneen can apply its fee to a successful claim,  as was the case here.  
And where  there has been an offset against  any compensation, the fee that Dooneen would 
charge would be reduced to reflect this. So, Dooneen needed to find out how much  had 
actually been  paid to Miss S by her PPI provider. As the PPI provider wouldnt confirm the 
information to them, Dooneen sought further permission from Miss S, in a Letter  of Authority 
for it to confirm the amount  paid to her. 
Miss S had by then chosen to deal with the PPI provider direct, but in signing the agreement  
in March 2017, shed asked Dooneen  to represent her with her claims. Her choice doesnt 
alter this fact. 
I can see that in trying  to get a response, Dooneen tried to contact Miss S by phone. But I 
can also see that Miss S had stopped  responding to Dooneens emails, meaning  it needed 
to repeat its requests for information. And it wasnt until January 2019 that Miss S confirmed 
the amount of compensation shed received. So, I dont  think  it was unreasonable  for 
Dooneen to try to find out how much compensation had been  paid,  as it was in Miss S 
interest for the right fee to be determined. 
So, Im satisfied Dooneen took reasonable steps  to determine the amount of the fee it should 
charge in line with its terms  and conditions. So, I dont agree Dooneens fee should be 
reduced or waived as a result. 
Ref: DRN63708483Dooneen has accepted that its level of service could have been better and has offered £80 
compensation to reflect  this. As Im not upholding Miss S complaint it will be for her to 
decide whether  she is willing to accept  this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Miss S complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2019.  
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6370848