K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  provided  poor service  and 
wrongly voided her motor  insurance policy (treated it as though  it had never existed). All 
references to Advantage include its agent. 
background
Miss M chose the policy on a comparison website in December 2018. She told Advantage in 
February 2019 that a cyclist had collided with her stationary car. An advisor  said the incident  
would be recorded  as notification only. He noted  that Miss Ms record showed  she had a 
provisional driving licence. Miss M asked him to correct the record  as she had a full licence. 
Two days later Miss M got an email  that referred  to her claim.  As she hadnt  made  a claim, 
she queried it. Miss M was told the incident  had been logged.  That was because another  
road user was involved and may later make  a claim.  Advantage offered Miss M £50 to make 
up for the initial advisors wrong advice. A few days later another  advisor contacted  Miss M 
to query  her provisional  licence. After it was established that the first advisor should have 
changed the record, Miss M was offered a further £50 compensation. But the advisor said 
underwriters would have  to review the situation.  
On 7 March 2019 Miss M was told her policy had been voided, as shed  taken it out on the 
basis of having  a provisional licence.  Advantage also said that online records showed shed 
sought other quotations on the day she bought the policy. It said shed put on some of them 
that she had a provisional licence and on others  that she had a full licence. Advantage  said 
Miss M had later been asked to check that the details set out in the policy documents were  
correct. Miss M didnt contact Advantage  to query  the fact that they showed  she had a 
provisional licence.  
Advantage said it thought Miss M had knowingly provided the wrong  details to it in order to 
get insurance at a favourable price.  And it said as a result of the voidance, there would be no 
cover for any potential claim. Miss M insisted that shed put on her application for the policy 
that she had a full licence.  She provided  a photo  of the form. Advantage didnt accept her 
arguments. But it later offered her a further  £85 for several minor  aspects  of poor service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ms complaint. She thought  the payment Miss M 
had received for poor service was fair. She thought it was reasonable for Advantage to void 
the policy, given  the evidence it had that Miss M had misrepresented  her situation  to it. She 
thought it was reasonable for Advantage to conclude that Miss M had done so deliberately.  
So she thought it was entitled  to retain  the policy premium. 
Miss M asked for a review of her complaint by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
First of all, I think  the compensation Advantage offered Miss M for the poor service of its 
advisors in making  administrative errors was reasonable. 
Ref: DRN65815342Turning to the policy voidance, Miss Ms screenshot photo shows the application  form with 
an entry  that states she had a full licence. The photo  was taken half an hour before she 
bought the policy. I think  Advantage has shown that the application form that went through  
the system shows Miss M as having  a provisional  licence. Advantage says she had time to 
change the record.  Miss M says a technical  hitch must have caused the change. 
I think technical hitches  are always possible. But in this case, Advantage checked other 
records and found  the other quotes  Miss M completed on the day she bought the policy. She 
hasnt been able to explain why she entered a provisional licence on some of them  and a full 
licence on others. I think it was reasonable for Advantage to conclude  that Miss M was 
comparing the price  of policies with each  type of licence. It has shown that its cheaper to 
buy a policy  from it and from other insurers if a consumer has a provisional licence.
An insurer  is only able to void a policy  in some circumstances. The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) says that in order  to do so, it must 
show first of all that there was a qualifying misrepresentation.  To do that, the insurer must 
show that it asked  a clear  question, and that the consumer didnt take reasonable care in 
answering it. Miss M was asked What  type of driving licence do you have? which I think is 
a clear question.  The record shows she gave the wrong answer  to the question,  so I think  it 
was fair for Advantage to conclude that she didnt take reasonable care in responding. 
The insurer  then has to show  that the information it asked for was important  to it. That 
means showing that it wouldnt have offered a policy at all to the consumer  or would only 
have done so on different terms  had it known  the true facts. In this case,  Advantage based  
its price for the policy partly on the type of licence held by Miss M. It would still have insured 
her had she declared having a full licence. But a senior underwriter has confirmed that it 
would only have done so for a higher premium. 
To void the policy in line with CIDRA,  Advantage must show  that Miss M made the qualifying 
misrepresentation deliberately or recklessly.  I think it can show that she knew  she was giving 
it the wrong information. She alternated the type of licence she declared in getting other 
quotes, as well as giving  Advantage the wrong  details. And she didnt  query the provisional 
licence shown on her policy  documents. So I think Advantage  was entitled to treat the policy  
as though it never existed.  
I also think Advantage was entitled  to retain the premium.  Miss M told us she got the 
premium back  from Advantage in April 2019  by way of a chargeback through her bank. She 
says she later paid the sum back to Advantage to prevent being  pursued for the debt. She 
seems to think that because the chargeback was successful, Advantage isnt entitled  to the 
premium. Miss M has given us a letter from her bank that says the payment was refunded to 
her as the bank got no reply from Advantage when it queried the issue.  I dont think that 
changes the fact that Advantage can show she deliberately or recklessly made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. In those circumstances it can void the policy  and retain the premium.        
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision before 
7 September 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65815343
Ref: DRN6581534