K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that in May 2009,  a Mr B and a Mr E wrongly  advised  them  to invest 
in a Harlequin property development. 
Mr and Mrs M believe that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Ltd (formerly known as 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd) is responsible for the advice given by Mr B and 
Mr E. I will refer to this company as Positive Solutions throughout the rest of this decision.
background 
Everyone accepts  that Mr and Mrs M invested £49,500 into Harlequin  in 2009, and that they 
suffered losses as a result. The dispute  is about how they came  to make that investment, 
and about who is responsible for their losses.
Mr and Mrs Ms position is that Positive  Solutions is responsible for the advice given by Mr B 
and Mr E, and therefore that Positive  Solutions  is also responsible for their losses.
Positive Solutions does  not accept that Mr B or Mr E gave Mr and Mrs M any investment 
advice at all. Even  if they did, Positive  Solutions  says it would not be responsible for that 
advice. Positive Solutions accepts that Mr B and Mr E were its agents, but it says it did not 
give them  permission to give advice on Harlequin  products  and therefore it says it is not 
responsible for the advice complained of.
Two of my colleagues  explained why they thought Positive Solutions  was not liable for the 
acts Mr and Mrs M complain about.  Mr and Mrs M did not agree. Neither  of those colleagues  
issued a determination under DISP  3.6 of our rules, meaning that the Financial  
Ombudsman Service has not yet determined Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
The matter  was referred to me, and I issued my first provisional decision in March 2020. 
Briefly, I said that I was satisfied that Positive  Solutions was responsible for the advice 
Mr and Mrs M had received, and I set out my initial proposals as to redress.
I issued a second provisional decision in December 2020, in light of additional  
representations and evidence from the parties, recent case  law, and my own further  
reflections. I expanded  my reasoning as to why I was provisionally satisfied that Mr B and 
Mr E had given advice to Mr and Mrs M, Positive  Solutions was responsible for that advice,  
and that Positive  Solutions should therefore pay compensation to Mr and Mrs M. I also 
changed my mind about certain aspects of redress, and explained  why I thought  Positive 
Solutions should  so far as possible  put Mr and Mrs M into the position they would have 
been in if they had purchased a buy-to-let property in 2009  instead of investing  in Harlequin. 
Mr and Mrs M broadly accepted my second  provisional decision (subject to some concerns  
about how interest should be calculated  if Positive  Solutions did not immediately comply with 
any final decision I were to issue).
Positive Solutions did not accept my findings. It is still not persuaded that Mr B or Mr E gave 
Mr and Mrs M any advice  about Harlequin at all, and in any event it says it would not be 
responsible for any advice  that was given.  It considers that I have misunderstood the law, 
and misapplied  guidance. 
Ref: DRN63959812In light of the parties comments about  redress, I asked our investigator to write to both 
parties setting out an alternative.  He stressed  that, at that stage, I had not made  a final 
decision as to whether  Positive Solutions was responsible for Mr B and Mr Es advice. But 
he also explained that  if my final decision  as to responsibility was along the lines I had set 
out in my second  provisional decision  I intended  to order Positive Solutions to pay Mr and 
Mrs M the amount of A + B + C + D + E + F, where:
A.£1,000 to represent the original deposit Mr and Mrs M paid to Harlequin.  
B.£48,500 to represent the additional borrowing Mr and Mrs M took in 2009.
C.The interest payments  Mr and Mrs M have  paid to service  that £48,500. 
D.8% simple interest upon the amounts calculated at C above, from the date each 
payment was made until the date of my final decision. 
E.£18,000 to represent lost capital  growth.  
F.£750 for distress  and inconvenience.
Both parties  have now had the opportunity to respond to my updated proposals as to 
redress. Briefly, Mr and Mrs M accept  my findings, but Positive  Solutions does not. It 
remains satisfied that it is not responsible for Mr Bs and Mr Es actions. It also says that, 
even if it was responsible,  it does  not agree with the redress I suggested.
my findings - jurisdiction
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments from the outset  including 
both parties responses  to my provisional decisions   in order to decide whether this 
complaint against  Positive Solutions  falls within my jurisdiction. I remain  satisfied that it does.
Briefly, I am satisfied that:
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about  an act or omission in relation  to the carrying  on of 
the regulated  activity  of giving investment advice. 
Positive Solutions did not give Mr B or Mr E its actual authority to recommend 
Harlequin products.
Apparent  authority did not operate such as to give rise to Positive Solutions 
responsibility for the acts Mr and Mrs M complain  about.
Positive Solutions is vicariously  liable for the advice Mr B and Mr E gave to Mr and 
Mrs M.  That is because, first, Mr B and Mr E were carrying on Positive Solutions 
business, as opposed to business on their own account, and their relationship  with 
the firm was akin to employment. And, second, the investment  advice complained  of 
was so closely connected with the acts Mr B and Mr E were authorised to do such 
that, for the purposes of Positive Solutions liability to Mr and Mrs M, that advice may 
fairly and properly be regarded as having  been done by them in the ordinary course 
of their duties for Positive Solutions  
Ref: DRN63959813Positive Solutions is also liable to Mr and Mrs M under section 150 of the Financial  
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA).  That is because Mr B and Mr E gave the 
advice complained of for the purpose of carrying on Positive  Solutions business  of 
giving regulated investment advice and in their capacity as Positive Solutions 
approved persons.  So section 150 imposes  liability on the firm for breaches of the 
regulatory rules about the giving of the advice.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint therefore  falls within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
I explain those findings in more detail below,  after first setting out both the factual and the 
regulatory background to this complaint. 
the factual background
I set out the factual background  in both of my provisional decisions.  Neither  party raised any 
concerns about  my description, so I repeat  it here: 
Positive Solutions business model
I think Positive Solutions business  model  is relevant here, so I set out below my 
understanding of the position. If either party disagrees with my understanding   on 
this or any other aspect  of the complaint   I would welcome their further comments.
In 2009, firms providing investment advice were required to tell their retail customers  
whether that advice  covered the whole of the market (independent advice), or 
whether the advice was restricted to one or a limited number of product providers 
(tied or multi-tied advice)
Positive Solutions provided independent advice  through its Registered Individuals. 
That term is defined in its agency contracts, discussed below in the section about 
Mr Bs and Mr Es relationships with Positive Solutions.  
I understand that Positive Solutions  usually told its customers that it was independent  
by providing them with its Terms of Business.  I have  not seen the Terms of Business 
in force  in May 2009, but I have seen  an earlier version, in force as at October  2006.  
The October 2006 version of the Terms  of Business said: 
Those who advise on life assurance,  pensions  or unit trust products are 
either: Independent  Advisers or Representatives of one company. Your  
adviser is independent and will act on your behalf  in advising you on life 
assurance, pensions  or unit trust products.  Because  your adviser  is 
independent he or she can advise you on the products of different  
companies.
That document also included Positive  Solutions partnership code, which  explained 
that its purpose was to help our clients understand, protect and increase their 
assets. It further said that Positive Solutions  partners would give impartial,  
independent financial  advice.
Ref: DRN63959814I have also seen a later version  of Positive Solutions Terms of Business, which I 
believe was in force as at January 2012.  The later version is materially different, 
particularly as to the types  of products on which Positive Solutions  would  advise (and 
I note that the 2012 version  said explicitly that Positive Solutions did not provide 
advice on the suitability of physical property  transactions). But it still said that Positive 
Solutions provided independent advice as at 2012. My understanding  is therefore  
that Positive Solutions  did give independent  advice in 2009, at the time of the events 
complained of.
the FSA Register
Throughout the relevant period, Positive  Solutions  was registered with the Financial 
Service Authority (FSA) as having permission under the Financial  Services  and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on certain regulated activities, including  those  of 
advising on investments  and arranging transactions in investments.  As such, 
Positive Solutions was an authorised person under FSMA.
Mr B and Mr E both appeared  on the FSA Register  with respect to Positive Solutions. 
Mr Bs name appeared between July 2004  and November 2010,  and Mr Es name 
appeared between December 2001  and December 2009. They  were approved by the 
FSA to carry out the controlled functions  Investment Adviser (Trainee), then 
Investment Adviser, then Customer on behalf of Positive Solutions.  The 
Customer function included advising  on investments other than a non-investment 
insurance contract  and performing other functions related to this such  as dealing 
and arranging  (SUP  10.10.7A).
Mr B and Mr E therefore both had the status of approved persons for the purposes 
of performing specific functions for Positive Solutions.  But neither of them  was an 
authorised person or an exempt person under  FSMA  they were  not authorised in 
their own right, and they were not appointed  representatives of another firm.
Mr and Mrs M are now aware of the contents of the FSA Register, but I do not 
believe they were  aware of the Register  in 2008  or 2009.
Mr Bs and Mr Es relationships  with Positive Solutions
Positive Solutions did not initially  provide  us with copies of its contracts with Mr B or 
Mr E. However, it did say:
[W]e wish to highlight  the following excerpts from the contract :
 
it is not a contract of employment but, as it says on its face, terms and 
conditions of agency.  It is not an exclusive contract as there are no 
exclusivity provisions in it; it is therefore a non-exclusive contract and so, 
as we have previously said, did not prevent [Mr B] from acting as a 
representative of another  firm at the same  time.
 
Section 2.1 of Positive Solutions Terms and Conditions of Agency states  
that: The company  hereby appoints the Registered Individual  as its 
Registered Individual  for the purpose only of introducing Applications by 
Clients for new Contracts, for submission to Institutions specified by the 
Registered Individual  and approved by the Company.  We have no 
Ref: DRN63959815record of Harlequin  ever being  on the approved list, nor have I been able 
to uncover a record of an agency or agreement between Positive 
Solutions and Harlequin and thus [Mr B] was not authorised  to act as our 
agent in the dealing with the complainant in this instance.
 
clause 2.4 specifically provides that [Mr Bs] relationship with this firm 
shall be strictly that of Principal  and Registered Individual and not in any 
way that of employer and employee.   It goes on to say that we will only 
be responsible  for his acts, omissions and representations to the extent 
that [we] would be so responsible at common law or by virtue of any 
statutory enactment  or regulation, or by virtue of the Rules of any 
organisation (including the FSA) of which [we are] a member for the time 
being.
 
clause 4.3 states  that [Mr B] needed  to provide the complainant  with a 
copy of our terms of business if [Mr B] was acting on our behalf, but no 
evidence has been adduced by the complainant that [Mr B] did this.
 
clause 4.4 states,  among other things, that [Mr B] must remit all monies 
that he receives for doing business  on our behalf to us forthwith, but we 
received nothing from him (or anyone else) in respect of this investment.
 
The contract accordingly supports our arguments as to why the complainant was 
not our customer because it clearly shows (in particular at clauses 4.3 and 4.4) 
the steps that [Mr B] had to take if he was dealing with someone on our behalf.  
However, [Mr B] did none of these things in his dealings  with the complainant.
 
We would  also highlight  clause 2.4 and the fact that we can only be responsible 
for [Mr Bs] actions  to the extent that we would be so responsible  for him at 
common law.  We can therefore  have no responsibility for [Mr Bs] acts,  
omissions and representations to the complainant in this matter.
Positive Solutions has since provided a complete copy of the relevant contracts, but it 
has asked that I do not disclose  them to the complainants.
I understand Positive Solutions position in respect of Mr Es actions is identical to its 
position in respect  of Mr B.
I am satisfied that Positive Solutions  description of the various clauses within  its 
Registered Individual  agreements is accurate. I note that the contracts also contain a 
provision for the Registered Individual to indemnify Positive Solutions in 
circumstances where  the Registered Individual acted outside of their authority, and 
for Registered Individuals  to pay over to Positive Solutions any monies (including 
commissions) that they received from financial institutions. 
Mr and Mrs Ms relationship with Mr B and Mr E before April 2009
Mr and Mrs M told us that in October  2008, they purchased a buy-to-let  property 
using a mortgage arranged by Mr B of Positive Solutions. I am not aware  of any 
contact between Mr and Mrs M and Mr B before that date.
Ref: DRN63959816Mr and Mrs M also told us that in January 2009 they contacted  Mr B using his 
Positive Solutions email  address in relation  to insurance on a commercial  property. 
He replied on 15 January  2009 to say I have passed on this to a colleague of mine 
who deals in Commercial  Insurance.  I generally deal with Personal matters  with the 
exception of Pension schemes.
I am not aware that Mr B (or any other  agent  of Positive Solutions) gave 
Mr and Mrs M investment advice about anything other than Harlequin at any point.
Mr and Mrs M do not appear to have  had any contact with Mr E until Mr B introduced 
them to him May 2009.
Mr and Mrs Ms interactions  with Mr B and Mr E between April and December 
2009
The chain of events  that led to this complaint  appears to have started in April 2009,  
when Mr and Mrs M were  considering buying another buy-to-let  property. They told 
us:
In April 2009, they approached Mr B to ask him to arrange a mortgage.
In May 2009, Mr B introduced them  to another financial adviser,  Mr E, and:
[Mr B] explained that he had a better investment opportunity to offer 
us and both he and [Mr E] from Positive Solutions came  to our house  
and did a presentation via their laptop  on Harlequin  and the 
investments available in various  Harlequin resorts.  Until this point we 
had not heard of/had no knowledge  of Harlequin. Neither Mr B nor 
Mr E explained the risk level of investing  in Harlequin nor did they 
assess the risk we were  prepared to take.  They did not give us any 
terms of business  paperwork etc.
Mr B and Mr E told them:
The [Harlequin] investment would have a better rate of return [than 
the UK property they were considering] with guaranteed rental 
income, a guaranteed mortgage  upon completion and finance 
payments met until completion in late 2013 / early 2014  Harlequin 
would fund the interest only mortgage repayments  under  the finance 
option and therefore the best way to fund the deposit  would be to re-
mortgage our own house  and use some  of the equity. They felt that 
because of this the investment was a no brainer.
They accepted  Mr Bs and Mr Es advice, and paid a £1,000  deposit for a 
Harlequin property.  (I dont know the exact date of this payment, but I believe 
it is the reservation  fee set out in the Harlequin contract described below. 
That fee was apparently  due within seven days of 7 May 2009.)
Ref: DRN63959817Between May and September 2009:
We approached Britannia and re-mortgaged our home.
[Mr B] contacted us several times by email (with the Positive Solutions 
footer on the email)  to give further  data about St Lucia and to enquire 
how our mortgage application was progressing.
In September  2009, they received funds from Britannia and paid a further 
£48,500 to Harlequin  (total payment £49,500).
They believed that their Harlequin  property  would be completed by December 
2013, and that at that point Harlequin would guarantee a 100% mortgage  on 
the purchase price.  They would either be able to sell the property at a profit  
or receive 10% guaranteed returns.
 
Between October 2009 and January 2013,  Harlequin sent them  monthly 
payments which covered  the interest on their further advance from Britannia. 
Since February 2013, they have been  funding the interest  themselves.
They are concerned that they have lost the whole of the £49,500 they 
invested, and they also have an ongoing  liability to fund the interest on their 
mortgage.
When we asked Mr and Mrs M a specific question about the advice they received 
from Mr B in 2009  was it only advice to invest into Harlequin or other type of 
advice, such as mortgage?  they said:
It was advice to invest in Harlequin although  he [Mr B] did know  that we 
would have to re-mortgage to finance the deposit. He further explained that 
our re-mortgage payments would be met by Harlequins finance 
arrangement.
We also asked Mr and Mrs M to send us all the correspondence they received from 
Mr B or Positive Solutions. That correspondence, all of which is in email  form, shows 
that Mr B sometimes forwarded  emails  hed received from other  people  to 
Mr and Mrs M. The original authors of the emails Ive seen were:
Mrs M (from her personal email  address);
Mr B (from his Positive  Solutions email address);
Mr E (again, from his Positive Solutions email address); 
An account manager at Marcus James  Professional,  which  I understand was 
a distributor of Harlequin products; 
A director of TailorMade Wealth Management Ltd, a company which (at the 
time) was an appointed representative of another firm; and
The Network Sales  Director  of Harlequin  Property.
Ref: DRN63959818I note:
On 23 April 2009, Mrs M sent Mr B some information about her and her 
husbands credit  scores  and promised credit reports  to follow. 
Mr B wrote  to Mrs M on 8 May 2009, apparently  after a meeting held on 7 
May 2009, to say:
I hope  you were happy with last night, and we [presumably himself  
and Mr E] answered all your questions. One thing  that I forgot to 
mention, that really  cemented  my thoughts on Harlequin was that for a 
client to invest their Pension monies  in a SIPP it has to be passed  by 
the FSA who do study all angles thoroughly (probably  not as much as 
you though) and apparently it is one of only a few that has been 
approved.
Please find below the attachments  as promisedAnother E mail is to 
follow on the water levels.
I understand that Mr B attached some literature (originally provided by 
Harlequin) to this email.
On 8 May 2009, Mr B forwarded an email  giving information about  
environmental impact analysis and the effect of tidal erosion and global 
warning on Harlequins sites.  It appears Mr and Mrs M had asked Mr B 
questions about water levels and/or flooding risk. Mr B forwarded that 
question to Mr E, who forwarded  it to one of TailorMades directors,  who in 
turn passed  it to Marcus James account manager.  She then forwarded the 
question to Harlequins Network Sales Director, who answered it. Harlequins 
answer also went through several people and businesses  before reaching 
Mrs M.
On 8 June 2009,  Mr B sent Mrs M a Daily  Mail [article] dated 22 April 2009, 
with the headline was Hot plots of St Lucia. The email chain showed that 
hed received the article from TailorMade, who in turn had received  it from 
Marcus James.
Mr B sent another email to Mrs M on 2 July 2009. I believe this was after they 
paid their £1,000  deposit/reservation fee but before they paid the balance of 
£48,500. Mr B said:
I have attached  a copy of correspondence I have  received from 
Harlequin last night. It is basically saying that at the end of July the 
prices are going up by 25% (page 2) meaning that a 2 bedder  at 
£170,000 will be £212,500 therefore your purchase  of £165,000 
means you have already  seen a rise in value of £47,500 nearly all of 
your deposit.
On 28 July 2009, Mr B forwarded  an email from Tailormade to Mrs M. That 
email contained  a link to pictures  from a Harlequin  launch  party.
Ref: DRN63959819Mr Bs and Mr Es emails  all came from their Positive Solutions  email addresses, and 
described each  of them as an Independent Financial Adviser  of Positive Solutions  
(Financial Services) Ltd. The email  footers  give Positive Solutions address and 
company number, and explain:
Any information  contained in this message  must  not be construed as giving 
investment advice within or outside the United Kingdom. Please note that 
email passing through PS servers, may at any point  be monitored  or 
intercepted as part of the companys internal  security policy.
In addition to the emails,  Mr and Mrs M have provided me with:
A 24 April 2009 article from City AM, headlined Why Caribbean property is 
such a smart investment.  The article  said Reliable returns  at worst and 
major growth at best are reasons  clever  buyers  are looking for a place in the 
sun. Mr and Mrs Ms recollection is that they received the article by email, but 
Im not clear about when (or from whom) they received the email.
The Preliminary Contract  for the Sale of Off-plan Property between 
Harlequin Resorts (St Lucia)  Limited and Mr and M. The contract  is dated  
7 May 2009,  but Mr and Mrs M did not sign it until 1 September 2009. Their 
signatures were witnessed by Mr B, but the contract does not identify Mr B, or 
say anything about the capacity  in which he was acting. The copy of the 
contract I have seen is date stamped as received 8 September 2009, but I 
dont know who received it on that date. (Given Positive Solutions comments, 
I think it highly unlikely  that the document  was received by Positive Solutions 
on that date  I think it much more  likely  that the date stamp belonged to 
Harlequin.) 
The contract included  the following features:
oIt is a contract between Mr and Mrs M, as Buyer, and Harlequin Resorts  
(St Lucia) Limited, the Seller,  entitled  Preliminary Contract for the Sale 
of Off-plan Property.
oThe property in question is the freehold of a ground floor unit in the 
development known as Marquis  Estate,  St Lucia.   It will comprise  two 
bedrooms, a living room, a bathroom and a terrace and have a built up 
area of approximately 1139 sq ft. However the Buyer has no claim if the 
property and the development, as built, differ from the layout plan in 
dimension or otherwise (clause 7). 
oThe Buyer agrees  to pay a purchase  price of £165,000  in five stage 
payments, linked to the progress of construction. 
oOn receipt of the purchase price  the Seller agrees to sell the Property to 
the Buyer (clause 2) but the Buyer must  first sign a management contract  
(clause 9.2).
oThe management contract will be between  the Buyer and a company 
nominated by the Seller  and will provide for the payment of management 
fees, for the Buyer  to have the right to use the property 30 days  per year 
Ref: DRN639598110and for the management company the balance of the year.   The 
management company  will pay the Buyer £16,500 per year in each of the 
first two years after completion,  and thereafter  at least  50% of the net 
income from the property.  
oThe Buyer may only assign the property with the Sellers  consent, for a 
price equal to or greater than the offering price for equivalent units in the 
development, and on terms  that bind the assignee to the same  obligations  
as the Buyer.
Promotional material from Harlequin describing Our Finance Option (also 
described as Harlequins 100% Finance Scheme). Briefly, Harlequin 
described the scheme as an excellent  opportunity to invest in a brand new 
property with only £1,000 required upfront. 
The Agreement for Payment of Interest on Deposit between  Harlequin 
Property (SVG) Limited and Mr and Mrs M. That contract  is dated  
5 October 2009, and provides that Harlequin  will pay the repayments due on 
any loan or other arrangement entered into by [Mr and Mrs M] for the 
purposes of financing (i) the Deposit (up to a maximum  of 30% of the 
Purchase Price) and (ii) an amount equal to the Reservation Fee.  In 
exchange, Mr and Mrs M agreed to repay to [Harlequin] to aggregate amount 
of payments paid by [Harlequin] on [their] behalf on completion  of the sale 
and purchase of the off-plan property.  
Other than the documents  described above, I have not seen any correspondence 
between Mr B (or Mr E) and Mr and Mrs M in respect of the purchase of their 
Harlequin investment.  I have not seen a fact find or suitability letter, nor have I seen 
any other documentary evidence setting out why anybody believed  that an 
investment in Harlequin was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M in particular. (There is some 
evidence setting out the perceived benefits  of a Harlequin investment in general, but 
Ive seen nothing  that linked those  perceived  benefits to Mr and Mrs Ms individual  
needs.)
I have not seen anything to show whether commission  was paid in respect of Mr and 
Mrs Ms Harlequin investment, but I understand that Harlequin usually did pay 
commission. If either party has any knowledge  on that point  even if only to say that 
they did not themselves receive commission / a commission rebate  I would be 
grateful for their further comments.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained to Positive  Solutions in October 2013. They said they 
believed Positive  Solutions was responsible  for the advice they received from Mr B 
and Mr E. Positive Solutions  did not uphold their complaint, and so they referred  the 
matter to our service.
Ref: DRN639598111Positive Solutions said:
Any advice [Mr and Mrs M] may have received from Mr B in respect  of the 
Harlequin Property Investment was not provided  in his capacity as an 
authorised individual and/or a representative  of Positive Solutions  (Financial  
Services) Ltd. It is likely that this may have been  conducted by TailorMade 
Investments Ltd however this is separate from the advisers agency with 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd.
In other  words, Positive  Solutions  says the acts Mr and Mrs M complain about were 
not the acts of Positive Solutions. As a result, it says the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service cannot consider  their complaint.  
One of our adjudicators agreed  that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was out of our 
jurisdiction, as did one of our ombudsmen.  The matter was then passed to me, for 
me to make an independent decision about  whether the Financial Ombudsman 
Service has jurisdiction to consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
the regulatory background
My provisional decisions also set out the regulatory  background to this complaint.  Neither  
party raised any concerns  about my description, so again I repeat it here:
I have taken into account the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA), the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001  (the 
RAO), and the Financial Services Authoritys Handbook.
the general prohibition
Section 19 of the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says that a person 
may not carry on a regulated activity in the UK, or purport to do so, unless they are 
either an authorised  person or an exempt  person. This is known  as the general 
prohibition.
An activity  is a regulated activity if it is an activity  of a specified kind that is carried on 
by way of business and relates to an investment of a specified kind, unless otherwise 
specified (section 22, FSMA).
At the time of the events complained about, Positive  Solutions was an authorised  
person. Mr B and Mr E were not authorised persons,  and I have seen nothing to 
suggest that either of them were exempt  persons. Appointed representatives are 
exempt persons  under FSMA, but Mr B and Mr E were not appointed representatives 
of Positive Solutions  (or of anyone else).
If either  Mr B or Mr E had carried out a regulated activity on his own behalf  by way of 
business, he would therefore have been in breach of the general prohibition.  If 
Positive Solutions had carried  out such activities  either directly  or through an agent 
 its status as an authorised person means  it would not have been in breach.
Ref: DRN639598112the approved persons regime
The approved persons  regime is set out in Part V of FSMA. Its aim is to protect  
consumers by ensuring that only fit and proper individuals may lawfully carry out 
certain functions within the financial  services  industry.
At the relevant time, section 59(1) of FSMA said:
(1)  An authorised person (A) must take reasonable care to ensure that no 
person performs a controlled function  under an arrangement  entered  into by 
A in relation  to the carrying  on by A of a regulated activity, unless the 
Authority approves the performance by that person of the controlled  function 
to which  the arrangement relates.
Positive Solutions was an authorised person. The act of advising on investments was 
a controlled function.  I consider that Mr Bs and Mr Es Registered Individual  
contracts with Positive Solutions amounted to an arrangement entered  into by 
Positive Solutions in relation to the carrying on by Positive Solutions of a regulated  
activity. 
Positive Solutions was required  to take reasonable care to ensure that neither Mr B 
nor Mr E gave investment advice unless they were acting in accordance with an 
approval given  by the FSA. Positive Solutions  therefore arranged for both Mr B and 
Mr E to be approved by the FSA to perform  the controlled functions Investment 
Adviser (Trainee),  Investment Adviser and then Customer in relation to regulated  
activities carried on by Positive  Solutions. 
At the time of the events Mr and Mr M complain about, neither Mr B nor Mr E were 
approved by the FSA to carry out any controlled  functions on behalf  of anyone  other  
than Positive Solutions.
The approved persons  regime does  not depend on an individuals employment 
status. Employees can be approved persons, as can non-employees like Mr B and 
Mr E.  
breach of statutory  duty
At the relevant time, section 150(1) of FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable  at the suit of 
a private person who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject to 
the defences and other incidents applying to actions for breach of statutory  
duty.
(The provisions of section 150(1) of FSMA are now substantially contained in 
section 138D of FSMA.)
Rights of action under section 150(1) of FSMA were only available in relation to 
contravention of specific rules made  by the FSA under FSMA. 
One such rule in place  at the time of the events Mr and Mrs M complain about was 
COBS 9.2.1R, which said:
Ref: DRN639598113A firm must take reasonable steps  to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
A personal recommendation included advice given  to a person in their capacity as 
investor on the merits of their buying a security  or relevant investment as specified 
in article 53 of the RAO.
Section 150(1) was a consumer protection provision, relating to regulatory rules 
which were themselves created for the purpose of consumer protection. Together 
they created a statutory right to damages for breaches of certain  rules. 
Having set out both the factual and the regulatory  background, I have gone  on to consider 
whether the complaint Mr and Mrs M have  made  falls within  the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
the compulsory jurisdiction
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can consider  a complaint under its compulsory 
jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission  by a firm in carrying  on one or more  of [a list of 
activities, including regulated activities],  or any ancillary activities, including  advice, carried  
on by the firm in connection  with [those  activities] (DISP2.3.1R).  
DISP 2.3.3G explains, complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect of 
activities for which the firm  is responsible (including business  of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firm  has accepted  responsibility).
Positive Solutions is clearly a firm under our rules.  All parties now agree that 
Mr and Mrs Ms investment in the Harlequin  property development was an investment 
under the definition set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (Regulated  
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). They also agree that, if Mr B and Mr E did give 
investment advice, then the act Mr and Mrs M complain about involved the carrying on of the 
regulated activity of advising  on investments. The dispute here is about  two things: 
Firstly, did Mr B and Mr E give any investment advice  at all to Mr and Mrs M?
Secondly, if Mr B and Mr E did give investment advice, is Positive Solutions 
responsible for that act?
Mr and Mrs Ms recollection is that they were advised by Mr B and Mr E. They say Mr B and 
Mr E came to their house and showed them  a presentation on a laptop. 
The contemporaneous email evidence does not explicitly that say Mr B and Mr E advised 
Mr and Mrs M to invest in Harlequin, but I consider that it is consistent with that conclusion.  
In my view, Mr Bs comment about the alleged actions of the FSA cementing [his] thoughts  
on Harlequin can only be read as Mr B endorsing Harlequin as a worthwhile  investment  for 
Mr and Mrs M. 
I put very little weight  on Positive Solutions  comments about whether it believes  an 
investment advice process  took place. Unlike Mr and Mrs M, the people now responding on 
Positive Solutions behalf were not present at the time of the sale, and have no direct 
knowledge of the matter.
Ref: DRN639598114I acknowledge that Positive Solutions  believes I have  given  undue  weight to Mr and Mrs Ms 
recollections. It says:
The Ombudsman  needs to account,  in particular, for the fact that whilst Mr & Mrs M 
may have  received a personal recommendation to invest  in Harlequin it is quite 
possible that this recommendation came not from Mr B and Mr E but from others 
entirely unrelated  to Positive Solutions  such as from Marcus James Professional  or 
TailorMade Wealth Management Ltd
If Mr B and Mr E had, in fact, provided  Mr & Mrs M with investment advice it is fair 
and reasonable to assume they would have followed at least  a semblance of the 
necessary process  required not only by Positive Solutions but also by the FCA. 
Whilst we accept that the regulated activity  of advising on investments can be done 
poorly or even very badly,  the complete absence of any advice process (such as fact 
finds, reason why letters or any other documentation  of any kind)  is itself evidence 
that no advice  was in fact given by Mr B and Mr E  That absence of 
contemporaneous evidence of itself contradicts the less reliable evidence put forward  
by Mr & Mrs M that they received a personal recommendation from Mr B or Mr E.
Whilst I cannot completely  exclude  the possibility that Mr and Mrs M received advice from 
Marcus James or TailorMade, in the circumstances I consider that extremely  unlikely.
I have seen no evidence  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs M were advised  by anyone other than 
Mr B and Mr E. If Mr and Mrs M had been  advised by another party,  then it is difficult  to see 
why Mr B or Mr E would  have become involved with this transaction  at all. I am aware that 
TailorMade advised  a significant number  of people to invest  in Harlequin, and I believe it 
may have  been  the biggest  single  seller of Harlequin investments. But that does  not mean 
that TailorMade or Marcus James gave advice to Mr and Mrs M in particular. I find Mr and 
Mrs Ms recollections as to who advised them  to be both plausible  and persuasive.
I also note that when Mrs M had a question about  water levels  and flooding  risk, she asked 
her question of Mr B. Mr B forwarded her question  to Mr E, who forwarded  it to TailorMade, 
who forwarded it to Marcus James, who forwarded it to Harlequin. Harlequins  answer  went  
back to Mrs M broadly through the reverse route.  If Mr and Mrs M had been advised by 
Marcus James or TailorMade, then it is difficult to see why she wouldnt have asked her 
question directly of the person who advised  her. 
Similarly, whilst I cannot  completely exclude  the possibility that Mr and Mrs M received no 
advice at all, again I consider that extremely unlikely.
I have seen nothing  to suggest that Mr and Mrs M had any previous experience of 
unregulated investment schemes of any type.  Even if they had decided entirely of their own 
volition to invest in Harlequin  which I think unlikely,  given the evidence  in this case   they 
discussed Harlequin with Mr B and Mr E before they made the investment. I think  it 
exceptionally unlikely  that those discussions,  with people who described themselves as 
independent financial advisers , would not have involved financial advice.  
Ref: DRN639598115Put another way, if Mr and Mrs M had decided entirely of their own volition  to invest in 
Harlequin, there would  have been no need for the involvement of Mr B and Mr E. 
Mr and Mrs M say they hadnt  even  heard  of Harlequin until Mr B and Mr E recommended  it 
to them,  and I accept  their evidence on that point.
Positive Solutions is right to say that I have not seen  a copy of a fact find, suitability letter,  or 
any other documentation explaining why Mr B and Mr E gave the advice they did. It is 
possible that Mr B and Mr E created some  documentation, but I have not been  able to ask 
them for evidence.  But even if they didnt  produce  any documentation, that does not imply 
that they didnt  provide advice. Providing investment advice by way of business  is a 
regulated activity regardless of whether or not that advice is documented. 
Taking into account the circumstances, the documentary evidence  in the form of emails, and 
Mr and Mrs Ms comments,  I consider  it much  more likely than not that Mr B and Mr E did 
advise Mr and Mrs M to invest  in Harlequin.  That means the regulated activity of advising on 
investments took place.  
I have gone on to consider whether Positive Solutions is responsible for Mr B and Mr Es 
investment advice.
In my provisional decisions,  I identified four ways in which Positive Solutions might be 
responsible  actual authority, apparent authority, vicarious liability  and statutory 
responsibility. I concluded that neither  actual  nor apparent authority operated  such  as to fix 
Positive Solutions with liability for the actions  of its agents. But I was satisfied that Positive  
Solutions was vicariously liable for Mr B and Mr Es actions. Further,  I was satisfied that 
Positive Solutions had statutory responsibility under s150 of FSMA.
I have reconsidered  every aspect of this complaint, but my conclusions  on responsibility 
remain as I set out in my second provisional  decision. There is no longer a dispute  on the 
issues of actual or apparent authority, but I will briefly repeat  my findings  on those issues. I 
will explain  my reasoning  on vicarious  liability and s150 in more  detail.
actual authority
Positive Solutions says it did not give Mr B and Mr E its actual  authority  to promote, advise, 
or do anything else in relation to Harlequin.  I have seen nothing  to suggest otherwise,  and I 
accept Positive Solutions evidence on that point. 
I note Mr and Mrs Ms representatives view that once a principal has given its agent actual 
authority to give advice  on one investment  product, that agent then has actual authority to 
advise on all investment  products.  But I see nothing in the case law or the regulations  to 
support that view,  and I do not agree with it.
apparent authority
In the particular circumstances of this complaint, I am satisfied that Positive Solutions did not 
represent to Mr or Mrs M that Mr B or Mr E had its authority  to recommend Harlequin 
investments on its behalf, or that either  Mr B or Mr E had Positive Solutions authority to 
arrange for Mr and Mrs M to borrow from Harlequin.  That means there  is no need for me to 
consider whether Mr and Mrs M relied on such representations.
Ref: DRN639598116vicarious liability
Vicarious liability is a common  law principle of strict, no-fault liability  for wrongs committed by 
another person. Not all relationships are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. The 
classic example of a relationship which can give rise to vicarious  liability is the employment 
relationship, and neither Mr B nor Mr E were employees of Positive Solutions.  However,  the 
employment relationship is not the only relationship capable of giving rise to vicarious  
liability.
I acknowledge that Positive Solutions  believes I should not be addressing the issue  of 
vicarious liability at all. It has referred me to Quinn v CC Automotive [2010] EWCA Civ 1412, 
and suggested  that case shows that in a commercial agency case, vicarious liability adds 
nothing to the concepts of actual and ostensible authority  which are the governing 
principles. I have considered that point carefully,  but I do not agree  with it. I note that in 
Quinn, the Court of Appeal saw no need  to distinguish between  the terms 
employer/employee and principal/agent  when summarising the authorities.  The case  was 
one where an employer was held vicariously liable for the deceit of its employee, a 
salesman. It doesnt establish any special rule relating  to commercial agencies.  
Ive not seen in the case law any decision holding that, whenever  a relationship can be 
described as an agency  or commercial agency, vicarious liability  can only be established on 
the basis of actual or ostensible authority.  Indeed,  the relevant relationship  in the leading  
case of Dubai Aluminium v Salaam (between  partners  in a professional firm) was described 
as essentially one of agency  (see paragraph  122) yet lays down a general  test for vicarious 
liability, recently reaffirmed by the Supreme Court, which is not based on actual or ostensible 
authority. Many commercial agents are of course  set up and run as independent contractors  
and their principals wont be vicariously liable for that reason. But in a case  where  the agent 
is not an independent contractor but has a relationship with the principal akin to employment, 
I cant see why the courts  would decline to apply the general test for vicarious liability.    
I am therefore satisfied  that the absence  of apparent authority is not the end of the matter, 
and I have gone on to consider vicarious  liability  based  on general principals, in detail. 
Having done so, I remain satisfied that Positive  Solutions is vicariously  liable for Mr B and 
Mr Es actions  in recommending that Mr and Mrs M invest in Harlequin. 
Broadly, there is a two stage test to decide whether  vicarious liability can apply:
Stage  one is to ask whether there is a sufficient  relationship between  the wrongdoer  
and the principal.
Stage  two is to ask whether  the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties  on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be 
held liable.
the stage one test
In my first provisional decision, I concluded  that the stage  one test was satisfied. I said:
It is now accepted that a variety of relationships,  not just those of employer and 
employee, may be capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. In [Cox v Ministry of 
Justice [2016] UKSC  10], Lord Reed said:
Ref: DRN639598117The result [of the approach adopted by Lord Phillips in Various Claimants v 
Catholic Child Welfare  Society [2012]  UKSC 56; [2013] 2 AC 1]  is that a 
relationship other than one of employment  is in principle capable of giving rise 
to vicarious liability  where harm is wrongfully done by an individual  who 
carries on activities  as an integral part of the business activities carried on by 
a defendant and for its benefit (rather  than his activities being entirely 
attributable to the conduct of a recognisably  independent business of his own 
or of a third party), and where the commission of the wrongful act is a risk 
created by the defendant  by assigning those activities to the individual  in 
question.
I do not have much  information  about Positive  Solutions relationships with Mr B and 
with Mr E. If Positive  Solutions wishes to provide further information, I will of course 
consider it. But on the basis  of the limited information I have, I am satisfied that in 
giving investment advice to Mr and Mrs M, Mr B and Mr E were carrying  on activities  
as an integral part of the business activities carried on by Positive Solutions.  I say 
that because:
I believe that at the time, Positive  Solutions stated purpose was To help our 
clients, Understand, Protect and Increase  their Assets.  I consider  that the 
provision of, and subsequent  implementation of, investment  advice is an 
integral part of fulfilling that purpose. 
Positive Solutions business model was that it gave financial advice itself, 
through its Registered Individuals  (people  like Mr B and Mr E).  
Positive Solutions status  as an authorised firm meant  that it was not in 
breach of the general prohibition when it gave investment advice to members 
of the public. So, when its Registered  Individuals gave investment advice on 
behalf of Positive  Solutions, carrying out Positive Solutions business 
activities, those Registered  Individuals were not in breach  of the general 
prohibition either.
Mr B and Mr E were  both Positive  Solutions  Registered Individuals. Positive 
Solutions had given them permission to carry out the controlled  function 
Investment Adviser (Trainee)  and then Investment Adviser,  then 
Customer on behalf of Positive Solutions. Positive Solutions had therefore  
engaged Mr B and Mr E to carry out activities  that were an integral part of its 
business.
I note that the FCA has issued guidance  as to when it considers a person to be 
carrying on a business in their own right, set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11. Although  
the guidance was published  some time after the events Mr and Mrs B complain of 
took place, the relevant parts of the legislation (in respect of permissions to give 
regulated financial  advice)  have not changed substantively.  I therefore  consider it 
appropriate for me to take into account the guidance  in PERG, which says:
In practice,  a person  is only likely to fall outside the general prohibition on the 
grounds that he is not carrying  on his own business  if he is an employee  or 
performing a role very similar to an employee.
Ref: DRN639598118Positive Solutions clearly  intended Mr B and Mr E to fall outside  the general  
prohibition when acting on Positive  Solutions behalf in giving investment advice. As 
Ive said, I consider that the only way in which Mr B and Mr E could have  fallen 
outside the general prohibition would be on the basis that they were  carrying on 
Positive Solutions business rather than their own. In my view, the guidance therefore 
provides support for the contention that Mr Bs and Mr Es relationships with Positive 
Solutions were very similar to employment relationships.  
I am also satisfied that Mr Bs and Mr Es activities were not entirely attributable to 
the conduct of a recognisably independent business  of their own or of a third party.  I 
note:
Mr B and Mr E were  both agents of Positive Solutions, and that was the 
capacity in which both of them came into contact with  and dealt with  
Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M told us that they understood they were dealing  with Positive 
Solutions. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that their belief  was 
reasonable. I have  seen  nothing  that suggests Mr or Mrs M should  have had 
any reason to suspect  that Mr B or Mr E might  be working for any other  party.
Positive Solutions had obtained regulatory approval for Mr B and Mr E to 
perform customer  facing  functions for Positive Solutions in relation  to the 
conduct of Positive Solutions investment advisory  business.
The matter complained of corresponds to that approval  it is a complaint 
about investment  advice given to existing customers of Positive Solutions by 
Mr B and Mr E.
Whilst it is possible that Mr B and/or Mr E might have had other  agencies  or 
businesses, I have  not been  provided  with specific evidence that they did. So 
far as I am aware, the only business that they both carried on was Positive  
Solutions business.
Finally, I consider that in allowing Mr B and Mr E to give investment advice on its 
behalf, Positive Solutions was obviously creating the risk that they might make errors  
or act negligently in doing so. Positive Solutions  assigned to Mr B and Mr E the 
customer facing task of giving regulated financial advice  to Positive Solutions 
customers, and it is always possible for that task to be carried  out negligently.
My conclusions on vicarious liability may have been  different  if Mr B and Mr E had 
been appointed representatives of Positive  Solutions. I note that in [Anderson  v 
Sense Network Ltd [2018] EWHC  2834  (Comm)], a case involving a corporate  
appointed representative, Midas Financial  Solutions  (Scotland)  Ltd, David 
Richards LJ said:
In my judgment, there is no substance  in the appeal on vicarious liability.  The 
judge [at first instance] made clear  findings that Midas was carrying on its 
own business and it is not open  to the appellants  to go behind  those findings. 
Sense [the principal]  also carried  on its own business which comprised  
providing the regulatory umbrella for independent financial services firms. 
When Midas and its advisors provided  financial advice,  they were  doing so as 
Ref: DRN639598119part of Midas' own recognisably independent  business. In no sense could it 
be said that they were  carrying  out activities assigned to them by Sense as 
part of Sense's  business and for Sense's benefit.
Here, Positive Solutions business (in respect  of Mr B and Mr E) was not to provide 
the regulatory umbrella for independent financial services firms. Instead, Positive 
Solutions was itself the independent financial services firm. Positive Solutions had 
arranged for Mr B and Mr E to be approved by the FSA to perform  various  controlled 
functions in relation to regulated activities carried on by Positive  Solutions.  Those  
controlled functions  which included the giving of regulated  investment advice  
were activities assigned  to Mr B and Mr E by Positive Solutions as part of Positive  
Solutions business and for Positive  Solutions  benefit.
In my second provisional decision, I recorded Positive Solutions response and made further 
comments on the stage  one test. I said:
Positive Solutions did not accept my provisional findings about the stage one test. It 
said:
The FOS's provisional decision  is framed on the apparent basis  that the Cox 
line of authority  applies. It is said that if it did not the Court of Appeal would 
have said so in [Frederick v Positive  Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd [2018]  
EWCA Civ 431] (and presumably also in Anderson).  This demonstrates a 
complete misunderstanding of the way in which the Court of Appeal  decides 
appeals.  In each of those cases the Court did not rule on the application of 
Cox because it was unnecessary to do so, since  the appeals  failed even if 
Cox applied.   Nothing can be taken  from this: and, pertinently,  it is to be noted 
that in Cox itself Lord Reed specifically stated that nothing in his judgment  
applied to the law of principal and agent (paragraph 15).  So, properly 
understood, the law is that Cox is not relevant  to the present circumstances.
It is perfectly clear  that [Mr B and Mr E] were  not acting on behalf of Positive 
Solutions and therefore must have been  acting independently.  On the FOS's 
own findings there is no actual or apparent authority in this matter  and there is 
nothing to show that Positive Solutions  represented  to Mr and Mrs M that [Mr 
B and Mr E] were  acting  on their behalf  (as they were not) and Mr and Mrs M 
would have or should have understood that Positive Solutions was not 
involved: 
(a)Mr and Mrs M have  no documentation  from Positive Solutions;
(b)The process was completely different from that they experienced 
when they were  provided with remortgage  advice in 2008  in which  
they received  a recommendations letter and an illustration/ key facts 
documentation on Positive Solutions' headed paper; 
(c)Mr and Mrs M arranged their own mortgage  with their existing building  
society meaning neither [Mr B nor Mr E] filled in any documentation;
(d)Mr and Mrs M were in direct contact with Harlequin to arrange  
payments to cover their deposit,  again  showing that neither [Mr B nor 
Mr E] filled in any documentation; and
Ref: DRN639598120(e)Mr and Mrs M had holidays to the flag ship resort of Buccament  Bay; 
something one would not expect  with a regulated investment.
I do not agree that Cox is irrelevant to the present circumstances.  But I do accept 
that it must  now be read in light of the later Supreme Court decision in Barclays  Bank 
plc v Various Claimants [2020] UKSC 13 (released after I issued my first provisional 
decision).  In that case Lady Hale reiterated  that, when faced with a case  where 
vicariously liability may be imposed:
The question therefore is, as it has always been,  whether the tortfeasor is 
carrying on business on his own account or whether he is in a relationship 
akin to employment  with the defendant. In doubtful cases, the five incidents 
identified by Lord Phillips [in Various Claimants and Catholic Child Welfare 
Society and Others  [2012] UKSC 56 (the Christian  Brothers case)] may be 
helpful in identifying a relationship which is sufficiently analogous  to 
employment to make it fair, just and reasonable to impose vicarious liability.  
Although they were  enunciated in the context of non-commercial enterprises,  
they may be relevant in deciding whether workers who may be technically 
self-employed or agency  workers are effectively  part and parcel  of the 
employers business.  But the key, as it was in Christian Brothers,  Cox and 
Armes, will usually lie in understanding the details of the relationship.  Where  it 
is clear that the tortfeasor  is carrying on his own independent business  it is 
not necessary  to consider  the five incidents.
As to Positive Solutions point that Mr and Mrs M do not have anything  on Positive 
Solutions notepaper relating to the recommendation that they invest in Harlequin, I 
do not consider  that is determinative. Nevertheless  I accept it is relevant to the stage 
two test  and I discuss it further below. However, I do not consider it relevant to my 
analysis of the relationship between Mr B (and Mr E) and Positive Solutions. 
Similarly, I do not consider that the process  Mr B and Mr E carried  out in this 
individual case, or Mr and Mrs Ms dealings  with their mortgage  lender or with 
Harlequin, has any bearing on my analysis  of Positive Solutions relationship with its 
agents for the purpose of stage one.
I am satisfied that this is a case in which Mr B and Mr E were  not carrying on their 
own independent business. For the reasons  I gave  in my first provisional decision,  Mr 
B and Mr Es activities  were  part and parcel of Positive Solutions business. The 
controlled function of giving  regulated investment advice was an activity  assigned to 
Mr B and Mr E by Positive Solutions as part of Positive Solutions own business and 
for Positive  Solutions benefit.
In my first provisional decision  I cited  the FCA guidance that a person must  perform a 
role very similar to that of an employee  to be carrying on the principals business. 
That guidance fits very well with how the Supreme Courts framed  the question, and 
in particular the distinction between  whether the tortfeasor is carrying  on business  
on his own account  or whether he is in a relationship  akin to employment with the 
defendant.  In  the present case, as I have said, I am satisfied the relationship 
between Mr B and Mr E and Positive  Solutions  was that they were carrying  on 
Positive Solutions business, as opposed  to business on their own account,  and I am 
also satisfied that in doing so their relationship was akin to employment.   
Ref: DRN639598121In these circumstances, I have no doubt that a relationship  existed between  Mr B 
(and Mr E) and Positive Solutions such that Positive Solutions may be held 
vicariously liable for their actions. But even if this was one of the doubtful cases that 
Lady Hale referred  to, I consider that the five incidents Lord Phillips identified  would 
still point towards the relationship being one to which vicarious liability could apply. I 
note:
Positive Solutions is considerably more likely to have the means to 
compensate Mr and Mrs M than Mr B or Mr E. Positive Solutions can certainly  
be expected to have insured against that liability, and may even have been 
required to hold professional indemnity insurance as a condition of its 
authorisation by the Financial Services Authority.
Positive Solutions had assigned  to Mr B and Mr E the activity of giving  
investment advice. The act Mr and Mrs M complain  of  the giving of 
unsuitable investment  advice   was therefore carried  out as a result of activity  
Mr B and Mr E undertook on Positive  Solutions  behalf. 
Mr B and Mr Es activity was very much part of Positive Solutions  business 
activities. Positive Solutions whole purpose  was to help  our clients  
understand, protect and increase their assets by giving impartial, 
independent financial  advice.
In assigning to Mr B and Mr E the activity  of giving investment advice on its 
behalf, Positive Solutions created  the obvious  risk that they would  do so 
negligently.
Mr B and Mr E were  to a very large  degree  under the control of Positive  
Solutions. The FSAs rules required Positive  Solutions  to properly supervise 
all of its Approved Persons, including  Mr B and Mr E. In addition, the 
Registered Individual  Agreement between Mr B (and Mr E) and Positive  
Solutions gave Positive Solutions extensive  rights  to control their conduct. For 
example, the contracts allow Positive Solutions to specify  how its Registered  
Individuals were  to act, and to approve the content of their advertising. The 
contracts made clear  that any act or omission of the Registered Individual 
shall be treated as an act or omission of [Positive Solutions] and explained 
that meant it is therefore imperative that the Registered Individual  adhere to 
the strict rules laid down  by the FSA and the Companys Procedure manuals. 
However, the fact that the relationships in question  are capable of giving rise to 
vicarious liability does  not mean that Positive Solutions is automatically liable for 
everything Mr B and Mr E did. To decide  whether  Positive  Solutions  is liable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I must  also consider  whether  the act complained  of 
is sufficiently connected to Mr B and Mr Es duties on behalf of Positive  Solutions  
the stage two test.
I note that Positive  Solutions has suggested that it is only where the worker is prevented 
from being an employee by some  mere technical matter to do with their status that 
vicarious liability is imposed.  But I do not accept that the test involves a consideration of 
whether a worker is in some way prevented  from being an employee. The test is simply 
Ref: DRN639598122whether the relationship between the wrongdoer and the principal is one that is akin  to 
employment. 
Positive Solutions has also suggested  that I was wrong to take into account the contents of 
PERG. It says the regulators  guidance is something to be taken into account in dealing  with 
the merits of a complaint which is within jurisdiction. It cannot  be used to determine  a 
question of law.
In my view, deciding whether Mr Bs (and Mr Es) relationship with Positive Solutions was 
akin to employment  requires me to consider the facts of the case   it is not solely a question  
of the law. But even if it was solely a question of law, I see no reason why I should not take 
into account the regulators guidance.  I am not bound  by the guidance in PERG, and I am 
mindful that it was published after the events Mr and Mrs M complain of. But I do note that 
the guidance in PERG  is consistent with my own conclusions  as to the nature of Mr Bs (and 
Mr Es) relationship with Positive  Solutions. I also note that courts  are not bound  by the 
regulators guidance either, but they nevertheless may choose to refer to it (see, for 
example, FCA v Asset Land 2016 UKSC 17 at [59] and Personal Touch Financial Services  v 
Simply Sure 2016 EWCA Civ 461). 
In any event, I would have reached the same findings on the stage one test even if the FCA 
had not published any guidance  on this issue. I consider that the case law alone  leads  to the 
conclusion that Mr Bs (and Mr Es) relationship with Positive Solutions was indeed akin  to 
employment. In my view,  the regulators guidance simply echoes the common law test. The 
common law test seems  to me to be just as applicable in the context of financial services as 
it is elsewhere.
Having carefully considered Positive Solutions further comments, I have very little to add to 
the explanation I gave  in my provisional decisions.  For the reasons Ive already given, I 
remain satisfied Mr B and Mr Es relationship with Positive Solutions was akin to an 
employment relationship, and that the relationship  in question  was capable of giving rise to 
vicarious liability.
the stage two test
In my first provisional decision, I concluded  that the stage  two test was satisfied. I said:
The stage two test asks whether the wrongdoers action is so closely  connected with 
the business activities of his principal  as to make  it just to hold the principal  liable.
As Lord Dyson said in [Mohamud v WM Morrison Supermarkets plc [2016] UKSC  
11], the test requires a court to make an evaluative judgment in each case  having  
regard to all the circumstances and having regard to the assistance provided  by 
previous decisions  on the facts  of other  cases. That is not a precise test, but the 
courts have  recognised the inevitability of imprecision given the infinite range of 
circumstances where  the issue of vicarious liability arises.
In the particular circumstances of this complaint, I consider that the actions of Mr B 
and Mr E are so closely connected  with the business activities of Positive Solutions 
as to make  it just to hold Positive Solutions  liable. I note:
Ref: DRN639598123Mr B and Mr E were  giving investment  advice  in relation to Harlequin. I 
consider that activity  was clearly closely connected to the business  activities  
of Positive Solutions, a firm which provided  financial advice  to its customers.
In Cox, the court suggested it would  have been unreasonable and unfair for 
Mrs Coxs ability to receive compensation for the injury she suffered to 
depend on whether the worker  who injured  her was an employee or a 
prisoner. I consider that argument has even more relevance  here  at least 
Mrs Cox is likely to have either known or had the ability  to find out who was 
an employee and who was a prisoner. But I see no way in which Mr and Mrs 
M could have discovered Mr Bs or Mr Es employment status. (I am aware  
that Mr Bs and Mr Es contracts said he had to make  their status as a 
Registered Individual  clear  but even if they had done that, the term 
Registered Individual did not imply anything about their employment status).
The agency contracts say Positive  Solutions will not be responsible  if Mr B or 
Mr E act outside their authority. But those  contracts also say that any act or 
omission of the Registered Individual will be treated as an act of Positive 
Solutions. In my view, those two terms conflict. I do not consider it would be 
fair for Positive Solutions to be entitled  to rely on one but ignore the other.
So far as I am aware, Positive  Solutions received no benefit  from the acts Mr 
and Mrs M complain  about. In particular,  I have seen nothing  to suggest that it 
received commission. But as Lord Toulson  explained in Mohamud,  vicarious  
liability can apply even where  an employee  has abused his position in a way 
that cannot possibly have been of benefit  to his employer. In Frederick, 
Positive Solutions was found  not to be vicariously liable despite having 
received commission. The commission issue is simply not determinative.
I acknowledge that the conclusions I have  reached are different to the conclusions  
reached by the court  in Frederick. In that case,  Positive Solutions was found not to 
be vicariously liable for the conduct  of a Registered  Individual named Mr Warren.  I 
have not seen the whole of Mr Warrens  agency  contract with Positive  Solutions, but 
from the sections quoted  in the judgment  the terms in his contract appear to be 
identical to the terms in Mr Bs and Mr Es contracts.
However, the facts  in Frederick are so different  to the facts  here that I do not believe 
that case assists me in determining whether Positive  Solutions  is vicariously  liable for 
the acts Mr and Mrs M complain about. In particular, I note:   
In Frederick, the claimants were approached by a Mr Qureshi  who was not 
a Registered Individual of Positive Solutions. Mr Qureshi induced them to 
invest in a property  scheme, which he was running  jointly  with Mr Warren. 
The claimants had no personal  dealings with [Mr] Warren  and did not meet  
him or receive any written communications from himthere was no 
semblance of an advice process. Here, Mr and Mrs M clearly had personal 
dealings with Mr B and Mr E, who were  both Positive Solutions Registered 
Individuals. They met with Mr B and Mr E and were provided with investment 
advice. Mr B and Mr E carried out business activities of a type that had been 
specifically assigned  to them  by Positive  Solutions, and which  they could only 
(lawfully) perform on behalf  of Positive  Solutions.
 
Ref: DRN639598124Mr Warren submitted dishonest  and fraudulent mortgage applications for 
loans on behalf  of the claimants. Mr and Mrs M make no allegation of fraud. 
They simply complain about  the mis-selling of an investment. I consider that 
their allegations  are of negligence. They say that Mr B and Mr E were 
incompetent in respect of the investment advice  given  to them, but they do 
not say that Mr B or Mr E were dishonest. There is therefore no need for me 
to consider whether Positive Solutions  would have been  vicariously  liable for 
Mr Bs or Mr Es dishonest acts.
Mr Warren was only able to submit the mortgage  applications in the way he 
did because he was an agent  of Positive  Solutions. But the claimants in 
Frederick did not say they had suffer[ed] any loss through the actual  re-
mortgaging or their receipt  of monies  from [the lender]. Instead,  they suffered 
losses only when they handed  the money over to Mr Warren  (or to the 
company of which Mr Warren and Mr Qureshi were directors). In contrast, 
Mr and Mrs M say that they suffered losses as a direct result  of the advice 
given to them by Mr B and Mr E, in their capacity as Positive  Solutions  
independent financial  advisers, to invest in Harlequin.
Positive Solutions did not accept my conclusions about the stage two test. It said:
As to the second stage  of Cox the analysis  again lacks any rational basis  and 
misstates the effect of the authorities:
1.we would submit that no investment advice  was actually given in this matter 
(Mr and Mrs M arranged their own mortgage  and dealt directly with Harlequin  
regarding payments), but in any event  such advice  activities were prohibited  
by Positive Solutions and they were fraudulent;
2.the question of whether Mrs Cox could distinguish a prisoner from a fellow 
employee cannot  possibly be relevant  it is entirely unclear to Positive  
Solutions what point  the decision  is trying  to make,  here;
3.contractual terms as between the agent  and principal are not relevant  
Frederick at paragraph [71]; and
4.as to commission, in Frederick Positive  Solutions did not receive and retain 
commission.  It placed the commission into a suspense  account and released 
it only when induced  to do so by further fraud  (see paragraph [70]).
Further this case substantially resembles Frederick  in that there was no semblance 
of an advice process, and in particular no reasons why letter  or fact find process and 
indeed no documentation  at all.
In my second provisional decision, I added:
I have carefully considered Positive  Solutions comments, but I remain satisfied that 
Mr B and Mr E did carry out an advice  process. There were  serious  deficiencies  in 
that advice process,  but nevertheless I am satisfied  that Mr B and Mr E made a 
personal recommendation that Mr and Mrs M should invest in Harlequin. 
Ref: DRN639598125As I recorded in my first provisional  decision Positive Solutions  position is that it only 
authorised its registered individuals  to give advice on products provided by 
institutions it had approved and it had not approved  Harlequin and had no terms of 
business in place with Harlequin.  I have not been provided with evidence that 
Positive Solutions had prohibited Mr B or Mr E from recommending Harlequin in any 
more specific way than that when they advised Mr and Mrs M.  However,  the fact a 
principal specifically prohibits its agent from carrying out a particular activity does not 
prevent the principal  from being held vicariously  liable for its agents actions. As Lord 
Nicholls explained in Dubai Aluminium,  "agents  may exceed the bounds of their 
authority or even  defy express  instructions" and as a result, "the law has given the 
concept of 'ordinary course of employment' an extended scope".  That does not mean  
that the contractual terms as between  the agent  and the principal are irrelevant   
clearly they are part of the relevant considerations  but they are not the determining 
factor.
I do not consider  this to be a case of fraud. Neither Mr nor Mr M allege dishonesty on 
the part of Mr B or Mr E. They say the advice they received was unsuitable, but they 
do not allege fraud. This is not a case where  Mr B and Mr E simply pocketed Mr and 
Mrs Ms money. Mr and Mrs Ms money was invested  however unwisely  in the 
way Mr B and Mr E recommended.
However, I consider  that Positive Solutions  made a legitimate criticism  when it 
questioned my comment that Mrs Cox could not reasonably  have distinguished a 
prisoner from an employee.  I was attempting to make a point about  whether it was 
fair for Positive Solutions to be held vicariously liable  in these circumstances. But, 
taking into account  Lord Reeds  comments in Morrisons, I consider  that I may have 
misapplied the stage  two test in my first provisional decision to the extent that it is 
now clear that my own sense of justice is not relevant when answering  the stage two 
test.
I have therefore  considered  the stage two test afresh. In doing so, I must answer two 
questions:
What was the field of activities Positive  Solutions had assigned to Mr B and 
Mr E?
Was the act complained of so closely connected  with the acts Mr B and Mr E 
were authorised to do such  that, for the purposes of Positive  Solutions 
liability to Mr and Mrs M, that act may fairly  and properly be regarded as 
having been done by Mr B and Mr E while acting in the ordinary course of 
their duties  for Positive Solutions ?
In Group  Seven  Ltd v Notable Services [2019] EWCA Civ 614, the Court of Appeal 
considered the scope  of the field of activities assigned to the wrongdoer  in that case. 
It said:
we agree, nevertheless, with [counsel  for Notable Services  LLB] that when 
deciding what a wrongdoer's field of activities is it is relevant,  in general 
terms, to consider that person's contract of employment and any directives 
about the way in which he should carry out his functions which form part of 
the terms and conditions. However,  this is only the beginning  of the enquiry 
and cannot be determinative or prescriptive.  If it were, the scope of vicarious 
Ref: DRN639598126liability would be narrow indeed and the majority of the central  cases in this 
area of the law would  have  been decided differently. The question must  be 
addressed broadly. As Lord Nicholls explained in the Dubai Aluminium case  at 
[22] quoted by Lord Toulson in Mohamud  at [41], "agents may exceed the 
bounds of their authority  or even  defy express  instructions" and as a result, 
"the law has given the concept of 'ordinary course of employment'  an 
extended scope.   
Secondly, we agree   that the usual authority of someone in the role of the 
wrongdoer is of some relevance  when  reaching  a conclusion about  the nature 
of a job and the field of activities  entrusted  to him or her. However, it is not the 
complete answer  any more than the precise terms of his contract  of 
employment can be. Moreover, usual authority must  not displace the 
approach described  by Lord Toulson in Mohamud.  The question  must be 
addressed broadly in the light of all of the circumstances of the case. It is 
important not to seek to import a yardstick of authority  into that broad enquiry. 
As Lord Nicholls stated  in the Dubai Aluminium case at para [23], albeit in the 
context of actual  authority, authority is not the touchstone.
Thirdly, we also agree that the nature of the job and whether  there is sufficient 
connection between  it and the wrongdoing must be considered from an 
objective standpoint, viewed in the light of all the circumstances. To put it 
another way, the question should be addressed  from the perspective of the 
reasonable observer with knowledge of the relevant context. It seems to us 
that that is inherent in Lord Toulson's criticism and analysis of the Australian 
case of Deatons  Pty Ltd v Flew (1949) 79 CLR 370 at [29] of his judgment  in 
Mohamud.
The above  passage shows that, contrary to Positive Solutions representations, 
contractual terms can be relevant, at least as the beginning of an enquiry, as to the 
field of a wrongdoers activities; and similarly the usual  authority of the wrongdoer; 
but that the nature of the agents job and of the connection between it and 
wrongdoing is a wider  enquiry, which depends on all the circumstances viewed 
objectively. I acknowledge that Group Seven was decided before  [WM Morrisons  
Supermarkets plc v Various Claimants  [2020]  UKSC 12, and Barclays Bank  plc v 
Various Claimants [2020] UKSC 13], but I consider  that I should  similarly approach  
the question of the scope  of the field of activities assigned to Mr B and Mr E in a 
broad, non-technical way.
Here, Mr B and Mr E were  contracted to give investment advice  on behalf of Positive  
Solutions. They appeared on the Financial Services Authoritys  Register as 
approved persons able to give such advice on Positive Solutions behalf.  For the 
purposes of the application of the stage two test to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, I 
consider that the field of activities assigned to Mr B and Mr E by Positive  Solutions  
should be described as the giving of investment advice.
In considering the close connection part of the test, bearing in mind the wide range 
of factors that have been considered relevant in the decided cases concerning  
liability for misadvice/misstatements  such as Group  Seven and Kooragang v 
Richardson & Wrench  [1982] AC 462,  I consider that there are factors  in this case 
pointing both toward and against holding Positive  Solutions vicariously  liable for the 
actions of its agents. I note:
Ref: DRN639598127This complaint is about the investment advice  Mr B and Mr E gave to Mr and 
Mrs M. 
The advice given  was not authorised by Positive Solutions, nor (from the 
perspective of an expert  in such matters)  was it part of the usual authority of 
an IFA. 
Mr B and Mr E were  outwardly purporting to act on behalf of Positive 
Solutions, and Mr B used his Positive Solutions  email address to correspond  
with Mrs M.
Mrs M told us that she approached Mr B because he had previously helped  
her with a mortgage. Everyone agrees that he was acting on behalf of 
Positive Solutions at the time. She did not approach him because he was a 
friend or a relative; she approached him because she was satisfied with the 
professional advice he had previously given  on behalf of Positive Solutions.  
That means the existing relationship between Mrs M and Mr B was that of 
customer and Positive  Solutions  adviser. 
Mr B and Mr E had agreed  with Positive  Solutions that they would take 
various steps when  giving investment  advice  on behalf of Positive Solutions 
(including, but not limited to, providing  consumers  with Terms of Business 
and a written statement  of the reasons  for their advice). Mr B and Mr E did not 
follow that process. Nor did they generate documents for Mr and Mrs M on 
Positive Solutions headed notepaper.
I would  not expect an ordinary consumer in Mr and Mrs Ms position to have 
noticed the deficiencies in the advice process. Mrs M already knew Mr B, 
because hed given  previously given her advice  (on Positive Solutions behalf)  
about an unregulated buy-to-let mortgage. I wouldnt expect Mr or Mrs M to 
have known that Mr B had to follow different rules and contractual  
agreements depending on whether  the advice he gave  was regulated  or 
unregulated.
I see no way in which Mr or Mrs M, or a reasonable consumer in their 
position, could  possibly have known that the investment  advice they received 
from Positive Solutions investment advisers  was not in fact authorised  by 
Positive Solutions, or was outside an IFAs usual authority. Even if they had 
consulted the Financial Services Authoritys Register, they would not have 
seen any limits on the scope of Mr B or Mr Es authority to give investment  
advice. Positive Solutions treated the contracts  between itself and its 
Registered Individuals  as confidential matters,  so Mr and Mrs M would not 
have been aware of the contents of those agreements.
So far as I am aware, Mr B and Mr E only had one principal  Positive 
Solutions. Certainly Positive Solutions was the only principal a reasonable 
consumer in the position of Mr and Mrs M would have seen if they had looked 
up Mr B and Mr E on the FSAs  Register.  This  is not a case  like Kooragang , 
Ref: DRN639598128where the agent/employee had dual,  conflicting, employments. Instead, it is a 
case where the only way Mr B and Mr E could  have lawfully  given advice  at 
all was by acting on behalf of Positive  Solutions. If they had given advice  on 
their own behalf, or on behalf of another third party,  they would have been  in 
breach of the general prohibition.
I have considered the issue  of commission carefully. I consider it very likely 
indeed that Mr B and Mr E received commission  for Mr and Mrs Ms Harlequin  
investment (because I am aware, in general, that Harlequin  usually paid 
commission). Positive Solutions  says it did not receive any commission  for 
the investment,  and I accept its evidence on that point. That means  Mr B and 
Mr E benefitted financially  from the advice they gave, but Positive  Solutions  
did not. If Positive Solutions had benefitted financially, that would  have been  a 
factor pointing towards its being vicariously  liable.  But the absence of a 
benefit does not point  the other way. In Kooragang, the Privy Council made  
clear that a principal  may be vicariously  liable even  if an agent/employee  
committed a wrong  solely for his own benefit.
The Supreme  Court considered the position  of a wrongdoers motive in 
Morrisons. It made clear  that the wrongdoers motive  is a relevant 
consideration. Here, it is not possible for me to ask Mr B or Mr E what  their 
motive was (and given  the time that has passed  it is unclear  how much  value 
their evidence  would have even if I could ask them). But I can infer their 
motive from their actions. There is nothing here to suggest  that Mr B or Mr E 
had any intention to harm Positive  Solutions, Mr M, Mrs M, or anyone else.  
Whilst both financial advisers  should have been aware of the high risk nature 
of the investment they recommended, they would not have known that it 
would ultimately fail. In the circumstances, I think it is most  likely that Mr B 
and Mr E had a very simple motivation  they wanted to earn commission  and 
make money, and they probably thought that the investment was a sound 
one. 
The commission Mr B and Mr E received did not follow  the route contractually 
agreed between  Positive  Solutions  and its agents. The commission  should 
have been paid to Positive Solutions  directly,  and then passed  on (at least in 
part) to Mr B and Mr E. Alternatively,  if it had been paid to Mr B or Mr E 
directly, they should have declared  it to Positive  Solutions.  This would not 
have been known to a reasonable consumer  in Mr and Mrs Ms position. 
Put simply, I consider  that the field of activities Positive Solutions  had assigned  to Mr 
B and Mr E was that they should give investment advice to Positive Solutions 
customers. What happened  here is that Mr B and Mr E gave investment advice to Mr 
and Mrs M. Clearly  there  were irregularities with both the investment advice and the 
method of payment for the advice. But having taken all the evidence into account, I 
am satisfied  that the investment advice complained of was indeed so closely 
connected with the acts Mr B and Mr E were authorised to do such that, for the 
purposes of Positive  Solutions liability to Mr and Mrs M, that advice may fairly and 
properly be regarded as having been  done by Mr B and Mr E while  acting in the 
ordinary course of their duties for Positive Solutions . 
Ref: DRN639598129For the reasons  given  above, I am therefore  satisfied that Positive Solutions is 
vicariously liable for the investment advice Mr B and Mr E gave to Mr and Mrs M 
about Harlequin.
Positive Solutions does  not accept my findings  about the stage  two test. Briefly, it says:
There is a clear and obvious conflict between two of my findings.  It is not logical to 
say both that advice given  on Harlequin  fell outside the usual scope of a financial 
advisers authority  and that the same advice was so closely connected  to the acts 
Mr B and Mr E were  authorised to do that Positive  Solutions should be held liable for 
it.
Positive Solutions had no real control  over any advice Mr B and Mr E might have 
given about Harlequin,  and no means  of controlling such advice.
Positive Solutions did not assign the activity of giving investment advice to Mr B and 
Mr E. Instead, Mr B and Mr E approached Positive Solutions because they wished  to 
set up in business in the provision  of investment advice and elected to become 
agents of Positive Solutions in order to benefit from the regulatory authorisation that 
would provide.
It cannot reasonably  be said that Mr B and Mr E were acting in the furtherance of 
Positive Solutions business, given that: they knew they were acting outside of the 
activities they had been authorised to carry out; Positive Solutions would never 
receive any remuneration or other benefit in respect of the activities;  and Positive  
Solutions could  not control the advice  and had no record  of it.
I do not accept that there is a conflict between my findings on apparent authority and my 
findings on vicarious liability.  The Court of Appeal  has specifically stated in Group Seven (as 
cited above) that the usual authority of an agent, though relevant, is not a complete answer 
when it comes to vicarious  liability and must  not displace the test for vicarious liability in the 
case law. 
I do acknowledge that Positive Solutions position  is that, in an agency relationship like this 
one, there  can be no vicarious liability in the absence of authority. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above, I am satisfied that Positive  Solutions is wrong  on that point. It is 
appropriate for me to consider vicarious  liability even in a case where there  is no authority of 
any kind.
There are of course situations where the same facts that led a judge (or an ombudsman) to 
the conclusion  that a principal is liable by reason of apparent  authority  also led that judge  (or 
ombudsman) to the conclusion  that a principal  is liable  by reason of vicarious liability.  But I 
do still need to consider  the two issues separately. In this particular case, as I have said 
there are factors pointing both towards  and against  holding Positive Solutions liable for the 
acts of its agents. Mr B and Mr Es lack of authority  to do what  they did is only one relevant 
consideration amongst many.
The degree of control  Positive Solutions had over Mr B and Mr Es work  is clearly a relevant 
factor, but it is not determinative. Positive Solutions  set out various steps for Mr B and Mr E 
to take when giving advice and receiving commission and it had the contractual  right to hold 
them to its procedures.  The steps  it took to check and enforce compliance with those 
Ref: DRN639598130procedures were matters for Positive Solutions. For instance, it could (as was noted in the 
footers to Mr B and Mr Es emails) have monitored their email  correspondence. Anyway, the 
fact Mr B and Mr E failed  to follow the correct  procedure for advising or receiving  
commissions, whilst part of the relevant circumstances, does not necessarily prevent 
Positive Solutions from being vicariously liable for their actions.
I dont know precisely how Mr B or Mr E first came into contact with Positive Solutions. But 
regardless of who first approached whom,  I note that Positive  Solutions  had established  
itself in business as a firm that gave investment advice to customers, and that it made  
arrangements for Mr B and Mr E (amongst  others) to act as its investment advisers. In doing 
so, I consider that Positive Solutions did indeed assign the activity of giving investment 
advice to Mr B and Mr E. 
Looking at the situation in the round, I remain satisfied that the field of activities  Positive 
Solutions had assigned to Mr B and Mr E was that they should give investment advice to 
Positive Solutions customers.  Mr B and Mr E then gave investment advice to Mr and Mrs M. 
There are factors pointing  both towards  vicarious liability  and against it, and amongst the 
latter were  irregularities with both the investment advice and the method of payment for the 
advice. But having  taken all the evidence into account, I remain  satisfied that the investment 
advice complained of was indeed so closely connected with the acts Mr B and Mr E were  
authorised to do such that, for the purposes of Positive Solutions liability  to Mr and Mrs M, 
that advice may fairly and properly be regarded  as having been  done by Mr B and Mr E 
while acting  in the ordinary course of their duties  for Positive Solutions.  
statutory responsibility under s150  of FSMA
In both my provisional decisions, I explained  why I thought s150 of FSMA (now replaced by 
s138D) provided a further route  to liability. I said:
I consider  that the guidance the FCA set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11 (in respect of 
when the FCA considers  a person to be carrying on a business  in their own right) is 
also relevant to the issue of whether Positive  Solutions had statutory responsibility  
under section 150 of FSMA for the actions of Mr B and Mr E. Again, I appreciate the 
guidance in PERG was published  some years after the advice complained  of here,  
but the relevant parts of the legislation had not changed substantively.
In my view, the FCAs guidance suggests  that the question of a firms responsibility 
for agents who were  not appointed representatives should be analysed according to 
whether the agent was carrying on the firms  business. The guidance  directly  
concerns the question  of whether the agent  is in breach of the general prohibition for 
carrying on its own business instead of the firms,  but I think it is just as relevant to 
the question of whether the agents  acts and omissions count  as acts and omissions 
of the firm under section150 of FSMA. The general  prohibition applies to persons 
who carry on regulated  activities by way of business  and section 150 applies to 
persons who breach  regulatory rules whilst carrying on those activities.  In both 
cases, the question needs to be answered  which  partys business is carried  on. If the 
agent was carrying  on the firms business,  then the agent wont  be in breach of the 
general prohibition,  but the firm will nevertheless  be liable under section 150 for its 
agents breaches of rules  such  as the COBS  suitability rules. 
For the reasons  Ive give above, I am satisfied that when  Mr B and Mr E gave the 
advice complained of, they were both acting  in their capacity as Positive  Solutions  
Ref: DRN639598131approved persons for the purpose of carrying on Positive Solutions regulated 
business. They were  not carrying on a business  of their own. So, if their advice was 
not suitable, then (subject  to the recognised  defences) Positive  Solutions  is 
responsible in damages to Mr and Mrs M under the statutory cause of action 
provided by section 150 of FSMA. I therefore consider that section 150 of FSMA 
provides an alternative  route by which Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts 
complained of.
Positive Solutions expressed some concern about my reference to FSMA. It said:
Whilst  not entirely clear, the Ombudsman  appears to have reached the view that 
s138D could apply  even if Positive  Solutions  was not responsible  for Mr B or Mr Es 
actions under the law of agency or the law of vicarious liability. In so doing, the 
Ombudsman relied on the views  of the regulator and on guidance published by the 
regulator. This is a clear  error of law.
In my view, responsibility established under the law of agency or vicarious liability is a 
sufficient, but not a necessary, condition  for responsibility to attach in respect of breaches  of 
FSA rules under s150 (and now for breaches of FCA rules  under s138D, which  is the 
equivalent provision  today).  I consider that the regulators rules  and the purpose served by 
them  mean  that a principals liability for regulatory  rule breaches may sometimes  go wider  
than it might at common law.  I have in mind, in particular, cases  where a regulatory rule is 
dishonestly breached by the firms  employee or agent. 
I note that neither FSMA nor the FSA/FCA  rules  draw  a distinction between  dishonest and 
honest rule breaches  when it comes to compensating  consumers for those breaches; both 
are equally  catered for on the same  footing.  This suggests that the presence  of dishonest 
intent doesnt  have the effect of narrowing the test for vicarious liability  under  s150  as it 
might at common law. And, given  that those sections have a consumer-protection purpose,  it 
would be unexpected if the employee  or agents dishonest intent when breaking a rule 
relieved firms from vicarious liability  they would be under if the rule had been broken without 
dishonesty.  
So, if Mr B or Mr E had acted dishonestly in advising Mr and Mrs M, Positive Solutions might 
still be responsible  for their advice under s150 of FSMA  even if Positive Solutions would 
not have been vicariously  liable for their advice under common law principles.
However, in the particular  circumstances  of this complaint,  as Ive said I am not persuaded 
that this is a case of fraud. I know Positive Solutions  disagrees  with me on this point, but I do 
not believe that Mr B or Mr E acted  dishonestly. That means s150 of FSMA merely provides 
an additional  route by which Positive  Solutions is responsible  for the advice given by Mr B 
and Mr E, and the fact that the section would in my view also have imposed liability  on 
Positive Solutions for any FSA rule breaches  committed dishonestly by Mr B and Mr E isnt 
directly relevant.   
summary of my findings  on jurisdiction
Having carefully considered all of the circumstances here, as well as the legal authorities,  I 
remain satisfied that:
Mr B and Mr E did not have Positive  Solutions  actual authority  to recommend that Mr 
and Mrs M invest  in Harlequin.
Ref: DRN639598132Positive Solutions did not represent  to Mr and Mrs M that Mr B and Mr E had Positive 
Solutions authority  to advise on the Harlequin investment.
Positive Solutions is vicariously  liable for the acts Mr and Mrs M complain about.
Positive Solutions also has statutory responsibility under section 150 of FSMA for the 
acts complained about.
I am therefore satisfied  that Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts Mr and Mrs M 
complain about. 
my findings - merits
Having concluded  that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint does fall within  my jurisdiction, I have gone 
on to reach  conclusions on the merits  of their complaint. In doing  so, Ive considered all the 
available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
In my first provisional decision, I said:
Briefly, my provisional findings on merits are:
Mr Bs and Mr Es advice was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M acted  on the unsuitable advice, and suffered a loss as a result.
The fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Positive  Solutions  to 
compensate Mr and Mrs M for that loss.
I go on to explain how I reached those conclusions. 
I consider that Harlequin was a high risk, esoteric investment that would only ever 
have been suitable for a small number of investors. I have very little information  
about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, but Ive seen nothing  to suggest that they had 
any experience  of  or, more importantly, understanding of  this type of investment. 
When Mr and Mrs M complained to Positive Solutions,  it sent them a questionnaire 
asking about their circumstances at the time of the events they complain of. They  told 
Positive Solutions that their savings and investments were made up of cash savings 
accounts, a cash  ISA, some endowment policies, shares in banks and insurance 
companies, and commercial and residential  property. They did not list a UCIS, or any 
other non-mainstream pooled investment.
Mr and Mrs M also said their attitude  to risk in 2009  was low. That is consistent  with 
their understanding that the Harlequin  investment would  be effectively self funding. 
They said Mr B and Mr E told them Harlequin would pay to maintain the mortgage  
interest, and once completed  the value would  be sufficient  to either secure  borrowing 
against the overseas property or to sell at a profit. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, and their reliance on the investment to 
repay their mortgage, my opinion is that the strategy  Mr B and Mr E recommended to 
Ref: DRN639598133them was far too risky.  I consider  that the advice they received was negligent, and in 
breach of the COBS rules on suitability. 
Whilst I cant be certain what else Mr and Mrs M would  have  done,  I consider it likely 
that if they had been suitably advised they wouldnt have borrowed  any money to 
invest, and they wouldnt  have made any investment into Harlequin.
I also note that Mr and Mrs M told us they agreed to go ahead with the Harlequin  
investment because it they were told it was a no brainer. I understand this comment  
to mean  that they found the decision to go ahead to be a very easy one  they 
thought the investment was simple  and straightforward, and there was no need to 
spend time weighing up the pros and cons. 
On the one hand, their no brainer  comment strongly suggests that they did not 
understand the risks associated with the investment. Those risks included (amongst 
many others):
There might be cost overruns in the building of the overseas property;
The overseas  property might have  dropped  in value;
The value of the pound might fall against the US dollar;
They might  not have been approved for a mortgage for the remainder of the 
finance  which  they would have  been contractually required to raise if they 
could not sell the property on.
On the other hand, I note that at the time of the advice Mrs M held a senior  position  
in a professional  firm. Given her experience, I consider  that if she had given serious 
thought to the matter, she would have realised  that the arrangements  here were 
complex  and that making an informed decision about whether to invest would take 
considerable time.
However, despite Mrs Ms professional experience neither she nor her husband were 
investment advisers.  They had approached  Mr B for advice, and they were entitled to 
expect that that advice  would be given with reasonable care and skill. I am satisfied 
that they relied on the advice they received from Mr B and Mr E, and it is therefore 
fair for Positive Solutions to be required to compensate Mr and Mrs M for that 
negligent advice. 
In my second provisional decision, I went on to say:
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M went ahead with this investment despite not 
receiving a written statement explaining why that advice was given. But I consider 
that shows only that they trusted Mr B and Mr E  it does not say anything about the 
degree of risk they were prepared to accept.
I also acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M were prepared to take some risks, particularly 
with respect to buy-to-let  investment  an area familiar to them. But that does not 
mean they were  prepared  to take the risks associated with this Harlequin investment. 
I consider that they were led to believe the Harlequin investment was a no-brainer,  
but it was in fact very far from that. Regardless of the exact level of risk Mr and Mrs 
M were  prepared to take, I remain satisfied that if the risks associated  with Harlequin 
had been explained to them they would never have chosen to invest in it.
Ref: DRN639598134I note Positive Solutions belief that there is no contemporaneous (or any) evidence   that 
Harlequin was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. But I disagree. In my view,  there  is plenty of 
evidence from the time of the sale that I consider  should have led any financial adviser in 
Mr B or Mr Es position to the conclusion that Harlequin was  as I have said  a high risk, 
esoteric investment  that would only ever have  been  suitable for a small number of investors. 
I see nothing here to suggest that Harlequin was suitable for Mr and Mrs M.
I have carefully considered Positive Solutions objections  to my findings, but I remain  
satisfied that if Mr B and Mr E had taken reasonable steps to ensure their advice was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, they would not have  recommended Harlequin  to them  as they did. 
My reasons  are as set out in my first and second provisional decisions, quoted above.
what Positive Solutions  needs to do to put things right
As I said in both of my provisional  decisions,  in considering compensation my aim is to put 
Mr and Mrs M in the position  they would have been in if they hadnt invested  in Harlequin.
In my first provisional decision, I said I thought that if Mr and Mrs M hadnt  invested in 
Harlequin they wouldnt have done anything at all. But after considering both parties 
responses to that first provisional  decision,  I changed my mind  and explained why I thought  
they would  have bought  a terraced property in the North West on a buy-to-let basis  instead. I 
said:
I accept that it is more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs M would indeed  have  
expanded their buy-to-let portfolio if they hadnt  invested in Harlequin. Their  
statement that they would have done  so is strongly  supported by the fact that 
Mrs Ms original  reason for approaching Mr B was for assistance in arranging a buy-
to-let mortgage on a specific property. I also note that Mr and Mrs M were 
experienced landlords. The fact they were  able to raise a mortgage of £48,500 
against their own property suggests  that they would have  been able to fund the 
purchase of a buy-to-let  if they hadnt spent  that money on Harlequin.
I note Mr and Mrs Ms comment  that if they hadnt invested in Harlequin, they would 
have made  an offer on a specific terraced house in the North  West. I cant  be sure 
that they would have  bought that specific property  their offer might  not have been 
accepted, and the sale might have fallen through for any number of reasons  but on 
balance I think it more  likely than not that they would have bought a similar terraced 
property in the same region. If they had done  so:
They would have  received rental income from the time they purchased the 
property until the time they sold it (subject  to void periods and any bad debt);
They would have  had to pay various expenses, including maintenance and 
mortgage interest;
 The value of the house may have fallen or risen between purchase and 
today, or the date of any earlier sale.
It isnt possible for me to obtain  precise amounts for any of the above  I cant  
possibly know how much rent they would have received,  what their expenses  would 
have been, or even  when (or whether) they would have  sold the property. But I am 
Ref: DRN639598135required to reach an outcome that I consider fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, and so I think  it is appropriate  for me to make some  assumptions.
For the purposes of redress I think it fair to assume  that Mr and Mrs M would have 
paid £49,500 for a property. I acknowledge its likely they would in fact have  spent 
slightly more than that, but £49,500 is the amount they actually  spent on Harlequin 
(their original £1,000 deposit plus the £48,500 they borrowed). The difference  
between £49,500  and the amount Mr and Mrs M would have spent on a buy-to-let 
property was still available  to them, and they could have invested that difference  so 
it wouldnt be fair for me to order Positive  Solutions to pay redress based  on an 
assumption Mr and Mrs M had bought a property with a higher value.
capital appreciation
Looking first at the capital  appreciation  Mr  and Mrs M have lost out on because they 
didnt buy a property,  I note that Land  Registry data (available from 
https://www.gov.uk/check-house-price-trends) suggests  that the average price  of a 
terraced house  in the North West remained relatively flat between 2009 and 2014,  
then began to rise. As at September 2020, the latest  date for which  figures are 
available, the average price  of a terraced house  was around a third higher than the 
2009 average price. I therefore think it would be fair for Positive Solutions to pay Mr 
and Mrs M £16,500 (one third of the £1,000  plus £48,500 they invested in Harlequin) 
as a proxy  for that lost capital gain.
Positive Solutions should also return the £49,500 Mr and Mrs M paid to Harlequin 
(£1,000 as a deposit from their own resources,  and £48,500 funded  by a mortgage).
As in my first provisional decision,  I intend to work on the basis that the Harlequin 
investment has a nil value. If this changes, or if any funds  are distributed in relation  to 
the Harlequin deposit at a later date,  it would be fair for Positive Solutions to receive 
the benefit of those  funds. Positive Solutions may request that Mr and Mrs M either 
assign the investment to it or give an undertaking that they will transfer  any future  
benefit to it. Positive  Solutions must pay the costs associated with any such 
assignment or undertaking.
I also want to remind Mr and Mrs M of the comment I made in my first provisional 
decision about the possibility that they may be required to make further payment to 
Harlequin:
I also note that when  Mr and Mrs M invested in Harlequin using the mortgage  
funds, they made the first in a series of payments under  a contract to 
purchase the overseas property. If the property is ever completed, Harlequin  
could require the remaining balance to be paid under the investment contract. 
I think its unlikely that the property will be completed, so I think its unlikely 
there will be further loss  but there  might  be. Mr and Mrs M need to 
understand this, and that they will not be able to bring a further complaint to 
us if that contract  is called upon in future.
Ref: DRN639598136income and expenses
Turning now to Mr and Mrs Ms likely  income  and expenditure  if they had purchased 
a buy-to-let property,  I should  first say that I am not aware of any equivalent to the 
Land Registry data that would allow me to calculate  the average income returns  
received by buy-to-let  landlords.  Whilst there  are various sources for average rents, I 
am not aware  of any sufficiently reliable sources for average expenses. If either party  
does have such a source   or has any other suggestions for how this aspect of 
redress should be calculated  I will of course take their further comments  into 
account.
I considered asking Mr and Mrs M for details of the actual costs  of the other 
properties in their portfolio since 2009, and simply applying those costs to a 
hypothetical 2009 purchase  of a £49,500 property.  If Mr and Mrs M had owned  
hundreds of properties, I might have done  that. But in this case  I dont think that 
would be a fair approach. I understand Mr and Mrs Ms property portfolio is relatively 
small  and so unusually high (or low) costs  for one property would have a 
disproportionate effect on the average  across their portfolio. I dont think  I can fairly 
infer that expenses for any additional properties they purchased would  have mirrored  
expenses on their existing  portfolio.
However, the average rental yields I have seen  are significantly higher than Mr and 
Mrs Ms likely  borrowing  costs, which suggests a healthy margin  for maintenance. 
So, as a minimum, I think it is fair for me to assume  that the rental income  Mr and 
Mrs M would  have  received if theyd  purchased  a property in the North West would 
have at least covered  the interest  and expenses relating to that property. That means 
it is fair for Positive Solutions  to now return all the money Mr and Mrs M paid out-of-
pocket to cover the mortgage. In other words, Positive Solutions should refund the 
mortgage interest payments Mr and Mrs M made from their own resources  after 
Harlequin stopped funding the mortgage  interest. 
In my first provisional decision, I also suggested that Positive Solutions could deduct  
the payments  Harlequin had made to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage. I apologise that I 
expressed myself poorly when I said that. To clarify, I meant  only that Positive  
Solutions should not be required to refund money paid by Harlequin rather  than Mr 
and Mrs M. I did not mean to say that Positive  Solutions could deduct the interest  
payments Harlequin  had made from the interest  payments  Mr and Mrs M had 
themselves made.
Positive Solutions should not be required to refund any of Mr and Mrs Ms capital 
payments towards  their mortgage  (because  those amounts are covered by the 
£49,500 above  if I were  to require Positive  Solutions to both pay the £49,500 and 
cover the capital repayment portion  of their mortgage, I would be double 
compensating Mr and Mrs M). I understand Mr and Mrs M switched to a repayment  
mortgage in September 2012,  so Positive  Solutions  is likely to need information  from 
Mr and Mrs M or their mortgage  lender  in order to identify the interest  portion of Mr 
and Mrs Ms mortgage payments since then. 
Ref: DRN639598137compensatory interest
So, comparing Mr and Mrs Ms financial position having invested int Harlequin to the 
position they would have  enjoyed if they had purchased  a buy-to-let property, they 
have had to find from their own resources the interest on borrowing which the 
Harlequin investment  failed to cover, and which a buy-to-let would most probably 
have covered.  Positive Solutions should compensate them  for their interest 
payments and also for the time Mr and Mrs M were out of pocket because of those  
payments.
In my first provisional decision, I suggested  that Positive Solutions add interest  at 8% 
per year simple to its refund of the (interest) payments Mr and Mrs M made to their 
mortgage and their £1,000 deposit.  It is impossible  to know  how Mr and Mrs M would  
have used the interest payments they made if those amounts had been covered by 
the rent from the property they would otherwise have  purchased,  and 8% per year 
isnt a figure that comes from precisely modelling  the cashflows Mr and Mrs M would 
have experienced if they had bought a property to let in 2009.  It is possible that a 
return of 8% simple on the interest  payments plus deposit will produce an income 
return that is either higher or lower than the actual income return  Mr and Mrs M 
would have received. But given the impossibility of a precise  model, I think a broad 
brush approach of 8% simple does  produce  a fair result.
I acknowledge that Positive Solutions  considers it is unfair for me to award interest to 
date. It is right to say that I have taken too long to reach my findings, and I apologise 
to both parties for that. But Positive Solutions  is wrong to say that the length of time 
taken to resolve this matter is solely due to the Financial Ombudsman Service. If 
Positive Solutions had upheld this complaint when Mr and Mrs M first contacted it  
as I believe it should have done  Mr and Mrs Ms money would have been returned 
to them  many years ago. I see no reason why Mr and Mrs M should be 
disadvantaged by Positive Solutions delay, and no reason  not to award interest for 
the whole  of the period  Mr and Mrs M were  kept out of their money.
In respect of distress and inconvenience, I said:
I have considered  Positive Solutions comments  about my proposed  award for 
distress and inconvenience, but I remain  satisfied  it is fair. I accept that Mr and Mrs M 
had other  assets,  but I am not satisfied that they were so wealthy that a £48,500 
mortgage debt was insignificant to them. I consider it very likely indeed  that the 
existence of the debt  and the knowledge they had to keep making payments 
towards it  had an impact on their decisions about how to spend their money. Whilst 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the debt was the sole reason for Mrs M to 
delay her retirement, I do accept that it was a factor in her thinking. 
Our investigator then wrote to both parties  to say I was intending  to award compensation  of:
A.£1,000 to represent the original deposit Mr and Mrs M paid to Harlequin.  (No 
interest should be paid on this amount, because  the payment  at E below is 
intended to represent  capital growth on both the original £1,000 deposit and the 
additional borrowing.)
B.£48,500 to represent the additional borrowing Mr and Mrs M took in 2009.
Ref: DRN639598138C.The interest payments  Mr and Mrs M have  paid to service  that £48,500. 
D.8% simple interest upon the amounts calculated at C above, from the date each 
payment was made until the date of my final decision. (I previously said interest 
on D should be calculated up until the date of settlement; I now consider that 
Positive Solutions should only have to pay interest beyond  the date of my final 
decision if it delays making  payment  see below.)
E.£18,000 to represent lost capital  growth.  (I previously said this figure should be 
£16,500; the increase is to reflect recent changes  in Land Registry  price data.)
F.£750 for distress  and inconvenience.
Our investigator also said that I intended to order Positive Solutions to pay interest  on the 
above amounts  if Positive Solutions  did not settle  this complaint within  28 days  of receiving  
both Mr and Mrs Ms acceptance of my final decision and sufficient information from Mr and 
Mrs M to enable  it to calculate C above. He said that I intended to order that interest be 
calculated at a rate of 8% per year simple, on the amount of (A + B + C + D + E + F), from 
the date of my final decision  until the date Positive Solutions settles this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  accepted  my provisional conclusions.  
Positive Solutions did not. Whilst it remains satisfied that it is not responsible for Mr and Mrs 
Ms losses,  it also made some comments on redress. Briefly,  it said:
It does not understand why I changed  my mind on redress  after issuing my first 
provisional decision. It believes my conclusion that it is more  likely than not that Mr 
and Mrs M would  have bought  a buy-to-let property is based on little more than 
broad assumptions.
It does not believe  it should have to refund the interest payments Mr and Mrs M 
received from Harlequin.
It considers that the delays in Mr and Mrs M receiving  compensation (if indeed  they 
should receive compensation at all) were  primarily the fault of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. It says it should  not have to pay interest at 8% for the whole of 
the period Mr and Mrs M were  out of their money  or at all, bearing in mind that 
Mr and Mrs M were  unlikely to have been  able to achieve a return  of 8% over that 
period.
Given my conclusion  that Mr and Mrs M always intended to take out a mortgage of 
around £48,500, it is not reasonable  to make an award for distress and 
inconvenience on the basis that debt was significant to them.
I have reconsidered  the issue of compensation, taking into account both parties responses 
to my provisional decisions.  
I acknowledge Positive Solutions concern that I changed my mind  on redress  after issuing 
my first provisional  decision. I did so after reflecting on the evidence and arguments, 
including Mr and Mrs Ms response  to that first provisional decision. One of the purposes of a 
provisional decision is to allow  the parties  to make further comments   and it is only fair that 
Ref: DRN639598139I consider those comments,  and alter my findings if those comments  cause me to change my 
mind. I set out my reasons for changing  my mind in my second provisional decision (quoted  
above). For those reasons, I remain satisfied that the fair and reasonable outcome here is  
so far as possible  for Positive Solutions  to put Mr and Mrs M into the position they would 
be in now if they had bought a buy-to-let property in the North West rather than investing in 
Harlequin. 
I agree  with Positive Solutions that it should  not have to refund the mortgage interest 
payments Mr and Mrs M paid with money they received from Harlequin. My intention is that 
they should only receive a refund of the interest  payments they funded from their own 
resources to service the £48,500 mortgage  debt.  
My understanding is that all of Harlequins payments in respect of mortgage  interest  were  
made to Mr and Mrs M (£300.62 per month up to January 2011, then £268.13  per month 
until early 2013), rather than being  paid directly by Harlequin to their mortgage lender. It is 
therefore fair for Positive Solutions to be allowed to deduct the payments Harlequin made in 
computing the compensation payable in respect  of Mr and Mrs Ms costs of financing  their 
mortgage loan.  If I were to require  Positive  Solutions  to  pay  Mr and Mrs M all the interest 
payments they made on their mortgage  without taking account  of the fact that Harlequin put 
Mr and Mrs M in funds  to make many  of those payments, Mr and Mrs M would in effect  be 
receiving the same  money  twice  once from Harlequin and then again  from Positive  
Solutions.
I have not changed my mind about the period compensation should cover.  I know  there have 
been significant delays at the Financial Ombudsman  Service, and I am very sorry for that. 
But I remain  satisfied that Positive Solutions  is responsible for the losses  Mr and Mrs M 
suffered, and it is therefore fair for Positive  Solutions  to reimburse them  for the whole of the 
period they were kept out of their money.
I also remain satisfied that a payment of £750  for distress and inconvenience is fair. That 
payment is not because  I believe  Mr and Mrs M were  somehow distressed by the size of 
their mortgage  as Positive Solutions  notes,  I consider it likely they would have had a 
mortgage of around  that size in any event.  But if Mr and Mrs M had purchased a buy-to-let 
property, they would have received rental income (subject to void periods), and they would 
have been able to use that income  to service the mortgage. If they had wanted to repay the 
mortgage, they would have been able to sell the property. But instead, the advice Mr B and 
Mr E gave led to Mr and Mrs M having to service the £48,500 debt from their own resources. 
I accept their evidence that the costs of doing so reduced their opportunities to pay for family 
activities, and that it had an impact on Mrs Ms retirement plans,  causing  them  to suffer  
distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Quilter  Financial  Planning Solutions 
Limited (formerly known as Positive  Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd).
I order Quilter  Financial  Planning Solutions  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M:
A.£1,000 to represent the original deposit Mr and Mrs M paid to Harlequin.  
B.£48,500 to represent the additional borrowing Mr and Mrs M took in 2009.
Ref: DRN639598140C.The interest payments  Mr and Mrs M have  paid to service  that £48,500, but 
excluding the payments  of interest  insofar as they were funded by money Mr and 
Mrs M received from Harlequin (the Unfunded Mortgage Interest Payments). 
D.8% simple interest upon the amounts of the Unfunded Mortgage  Interest 
Payments, from the date each payment was made  until the date of my final 
decision. 
E.£18,000 to represent lost capital  growth.  
F.£750 for distress  and inconvenience.
Positive Solutions may request that Mr and Mrs M either assign  their Harlequin investment to 
it or give an undertaking that they will transfer any future benefit  to it. Quilter Financial 
Planning Solutions  Limited must pay the costs associated with any such assignment or 
undertaking.
If Quilter  Financial  Planning Solutions Limited  does not settle this complaint  within  28 days  of 
receiving both Mr and Mrs Ms acceptance  of my final decision and sufficient information 
from Mr and Mrs M to enable it to calculate  C above, it must also pay interest on the above 
amounts. That interest should be calculated at a rate of 8% per year simple, from the date of 
this final decision until the date Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited settles this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2021.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6395981