K820x#14complaint
Mrs E says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs E took out the PPI in person alongside  a store card in 1999.  
The policy cost £1.00 per £100  and couldve covered Mrs E if she was too ill to work, had an 
accident or lost her job. It also provided  life cover  and 60 days  of purchase  and price  
protection. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs E says she was told she had to have  the PPI in order to get the store card.  FICL has 
sent me a copy of the signed credit agreement from the time of the sale. I can see there was 
a section titled account cover which Mrs E signed to indicate  she wanted to buy PPI. I think 
it was clear she couldve left this box blank to decline the PPI if she didnt want  it. I cant  
know exactly what was said to Mrs E when she took out the store card.  But looking at the 
agreement, I think  FICL  made it clear Mrs E had a choice in taking the policy and she chose 
to take it. 
Mrs Es representative has mentioned that there was a handwritten  cross  next to the PPI 
section of the agreement. So they feel Mrs E was told where to sign by the store  
representative. Its possible this is correct. But as this was separate to where Mrs E signed 
for the store card, I think it was clear  she was agreeing to take out a separate product. And I 
also think it was clear  she was agreeing to protect  her repayments. So I dont think this 
means the policy was mis-sold. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs E so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to give her enough  information  so she could make  sure she wanted it.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mrs E doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful  to her. I say this because  Mrs E had no sick pay available  to her and 
had a small amount  of savings at the time.  But the policy couldve covered her if she was too 
ill to work,  had an accident or was made redundant until she was ready to go back  to work.
Ref: DRN63977232I think its unlikely FICL  made  the cost of the policy clear enough for Mrs E to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But I think  if Mrs E had properly understood the 
cost and benefit provided she wouldve  thought the policy potentially  useful.  The policy 
would pay a 15% monthly benefit  until the outstanding balance was cleared, so I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped her buying  it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6397723