K822xcomplaint
Mr W and Mr L have complained that Mr W was mis-sold a dinghy  policy  by John Chapman 
Insurance Consultants  (JCIC) and this caused his claim  to be declined.
background 
Mr W and Mr L own a sailing boat. JCIC had arranged insurance for Mr W for several years.
Mr W made a claim to his insurer after the boat broke free from its mooring in June 2017 and 
sank. The cost of repairs was originally estimated to be at least £4,000.
The insurer  rejected the claim. It said Mr W was in breach of a condition  on the policy that 
the boat should be hauled  ashore when not in use.
Mr W and Mr L say that from 2010  to 2016 there  wasnt such  a condition  in the policy.  But in 
2016 Mr Ws previous insurer stopped  dealing  with brokers, so JCIC asked another  broker to 
provide them  with an equivalent  policy. Unfortunately  the new policy  contained the condition 
referred to above.
Mr W and Mr L complained to this service about JCIC. Theyve brought a separate  complaint 
against the insurer who is responsible for the actions of the other  broker  since that broker 
was acting as the insurers agent.
We didnt receive any information  in relation to this complaint from JCIC. 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in order to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
findings. An extract  from my provisional  decision is set out below.
Firstly I would like to point out that in this decision  Im only able to consider the actions of 
JCIC.
I dont know whether JCIC offered advice or made recommendations when arranging 
Mr Ws insurance. But I think even if JCIC didnt recommend the policy  to Mr W, it should still 
have provided  him with enough information on the policy so that he could make an informed 
decision about whether it was suitable for him.
The exclusion in Mr Ws policy wouldnt be significant for most dinghies.  But I believe 
JCIC knew that Mr Ws boat wasnt stored on shore.  In addition the schedule to the policy 
specified what type of boat was being insured.  Mr W and Mr Ls boat is just over six 
metres long, weighs  about 1,200kg and has a cabin.  I think  JCIC should have known that 
a policy  with such a condition about storage on shore wouldnt be suitable for Mr W.
I think JCIC had a responsibility to bring  key terms to the attention  of Mr W and I cant 
see that it met this requirement with him.
In cases where an insurance policy has been mis-sold, our approach will usually be to look 
at the position  the consumer would be in had the mis-sale not taken place.  In this case  I 
think Mr W would have  bought a policy without a condition  that he couldnt  comply with. If 
hed done that, his claim would probably have been paid since it was only declined  on the 
ground that the condition about  storage  had been breached.
Ref: DRN64936752But I dont think JCIC should have  to pay the whole of the cost of the claim. In the 
circumstances I think its only fair that JCIC should pay half the cost of settling the 
claim.
If Mr W and Mr L can provide evidence of the amount of the claim and my final decision is 
along the same lines as this decision, I will forward that evidence with JCIC and consider 
awarding them a fixed amount.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr W said he couldnt show what he and Mr L had spent on repairs  as they hadnt been 
carried out. He no longer  thought it would be economic  to repair  the boat and asked me to 
award him £4,000, being half the sum insured.
JWIC didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disagreed with my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them and 
so they become the findings of this final decision.  
I have considered whether it would be appropriate for JWIC to pay Mr W £4,000.  Ive come 
to the conclusion it wouldnt be because I havent  seen  any evidence  of the revised  repair 
costs. I think Mr W and Mr L should obtain  two quotes for the repair of their boat. JWIC 
should pay half the cost of repair (based on the lower of the two quotes) or £4,000  whichever 
is the lower.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require John Chapman Insurance  Consultants  to pay half 
the cost of repairing the boat (based on the lower of two quotes obtained by Mr W and Mr L) 
or £4,000  whichever is the lower.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6493675