K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide), mis-sold  them  several 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on 3 September 2019. A copy  of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. My provisional decision explains, in full, the 
background to this complaint and what I provisionally considered.
Broadly summarised I considered the PPI policies  werent mis-sold  so Nationwide did not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policies  to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide did have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide had done this and I thought  there 
were reasons why its offer was generous.  
And finally, I considered  the offer Nationwide made to put right the fact that policies 1 and 2 
should have been cancelled is fair.
Neither party responded with anything further for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Nationwide Building 
Society has already  done this, and for the reasons  explained, its offer here is generous.  So I 
dont direct it to pay anything more in this regard. 
The offer Nationwide Building Society  has made to put right the fact that policies 1 and 2 
should have been cancelled is fair.
Overall, Nationwide  Building Societys  offer fairly  resolves any errors, puts things  right and 
ensures Mr and Mrs M have not lost out.
Ref: DRN65556112Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65556113Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide), mis-sold  them  several mortgage 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies. 
background
Mr and Mrs M took out several PPI policies over the years to protect  the mortgage they had taken out 
with Nationwide in 1996 and subsequent further advances.
The first policy (policy  1) was taken out in 1996 at the same time as Mr and Mrs M took out their 
mortgage. The policy was in Mr Ms name only and covered him for unemployment only  so not 
accident and sickness. The policy cost £14.18  per month and provided  a monthly  benefit  of £350. The 
policy was amended  in 1999 to provide  a total benefit of £400.
Another policy  (policy  2) was taken  out in 2000 alongside a further advance. Nationwides records 
show that this policy was set up to cover Mrs M only and for unemployment only. The policy  cost 
£10.17 per month and provided a monthly benefit of £300.
Shortly after policy 2 was taken, Nationwides records show that policy 1 was amended from covering 
Mr M for 100% unemployment to cover  both Mr and Mrs M for unemployment with an equal  benefit  
split  so 50 / 50%. The cost of the PPI and the benefit it provided remained the same.
The final policy (policy  3) was taken out in 2003 alongside another  further advance. The policy was 
set up to cover both Mr and Mrs M (equally) and covered them for unemployment only.  The policy 
cost £27.14  per month and provided a total monthly benefit of £800.  
In 2009, Mr and Mrs M requested that their cover be amended to cover Mr M only. The cost of the PPI 
and the benefit it provided remained the same.
Mr and Mrs M say that they asked  for and wanted the PPI policies as they were keen on the 
protection it provided. But they say when  Mr M tried to make a claim under the policy they were told 
they needed to contact the insurer. Mr and Mrs M say they did this and were required  to jump through  
several hoops  in order to get Mr Ms claim  for unemployment  paid. 
Mr and Mrs M say that Nationwide didnt  disclose  at the point of each sale there would be third parties 
involved. Because of this they wanted a refund of what they had paid for the PPI policies.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M complained to Nationwide. Nationwide looked  into Mr and Mrs Ms concern 
and said that it didnt think the PPI policies were mis-sold.  
But it did offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI policies.  And this was because of a Supreme  
Court ruling  and the new rules and guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in 
August 2017  that set out how businesses  should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI policy  
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back 
the amount of commission  and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
The compensation  Nationwide offered  was in relation to the level of commission and profit share  it 
received on Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policies.  
Nationwide offered to pay back to Mr and Mrs M the amount of commission  and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium. It also offered Mr and Mrs M additional compensation, set at 8% 
simple interest  for the time they had been  out of pocket of that money.
Ref: DRN65556114Nationwide also offered further compensation. This was in relation to the claim Mr M had in 2013.  In 
2009, Mr and Mrs M had requested that cover be amended to cover  Mr M only.  Nationwide said that 
this was done  for policy 3 but not for policies  1 and 2. So when Mr M successfully claimed in 2013 he 
didnt receive the correct  amount of claim benefit. To recognise the error and to ensure Mr M hadnt 
lost out, Nationwide  paid an amount to bring the claim  benefit up to what  it should have been.  And it 
offered additional compensation,  set at 8% simple interest for the time Mr and Mrs M had been out of 
pocket of that money.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy with Nationwides response and referred  the matter to our service.
When the complaint  was brought to our service, Nationwide initially objected to our service  looking 
into the complaint.  But it has since waived  the objection and agreed that the whole complaint  can be 
considered. 
Nationwide submitted  its information about the complaint to this service. In doing  so it explained  that 
having reviewed the complaint, it had identified  a further error. 
It said that when policy 3 was set up in 2003  it was meant  to have  been set up to replace 
policies 1 and 2. This was because Mr and Mrs M had requested this on the application for policy 3. 
But policies 1 and 2 had remained in place, in error, from 2003 up until 2018 when all the policies 
were cancelled.  So it said Mr and Mrs M had being paying for policies 1 and 2 unnecessarily from 
2003. 
In light of this Nationwide offered to refund  Mr and Mrs M the premiums they had paid from 2003  until 
2018. And it offered additional compensation, set at 8% simple interest  for the time they had been out 
of pocket of that money.
But because Mr M had successfully claimed in 2013, and policy 1 and 2 were in place and hadnt 
been cancelled due to Nationwides error, Nationwide had earlier  offered to pay the claim benefit that 
policies 1 and 2 would have paid out. But Nationwide explained that this was wrong.  Policies 1 and 2 
shouldnt have actually  been  in place since  2003. So Nationwide said while it would refund the extra 
payments Mr and Mrs M made to those policies it would deduct the claim  amounts under policies 1 
and 2 from the refund of premiums for policy 1 and 2. 
Our adjudicator looked  into the complaint  and thought  overall Nationwide had acted  fairly. So they 
didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and requested  that an ombudsman review the complaint as the final stage in 
our process.  So, as the matter hasnt been resolved,  the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
the sale of the PPI policies 
From what Mr and Mrs M say, it seems  as if they wanted the PPI policies and asked for them  at the 
level they required. And having listened to what Mr and Mrs M have said,  and alongside the 
information Nationwide  has provided about the sale of the policies, I agree. It seems to me that 
Mr and Mrs M were  aware of the policies,  wanted the protection  the PPI offered, chose the level of 
cover, who the cover  was required  for each time and consented to taking out each of the policies.  
Ref: DRN65556115Overall, having looked at their circumstances I think the PPI was useful and wasnt mis-sold.
But Mr and Mrs M say the PPI policies were mis-sold  because it wasnt disclosed to them at the point 
of each sale that there would be a third party involved  in the event of a claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs M were frustrated  that there was a third party involved with the PPI policies. 
But I disagree  that it means the policies were mis-sold.  Yes, Nationwide sold them  each PPI policy, 
but unless the policy was actually sold by the insurer, there will be a third party  an insurer or 
underwriter that will be responsible for the assessment and payment of claims in accordance with the 
terms of the policy. So Nationwide was able to the sell the insurance  but wasnt an insurer and 
wasnt responsible for assessing  a claim made under the policy. If there was a claim, it would need to 
be assessed by the insurer or underwriter of the policy. 
I think  had Mr and Mrs M been  made aware  of this at the point of each sale, I think they still would 
have gone ahead with the policies.  
With insurance claims, theres often a degree of having to correspond  with the insurer.  ITs fair for the 
insurer to require  the person claiming on the policy  to prove  their claim. This enables  the insurer or 
underwriter to assess the claim in accordance with the policy terms.  
So I dont uphold Mr and Mrs M complaint that the policies were  mis-sold  because  it wasnt disclosed 
at the point  of sale that there would be third party involvement in the event  of a claim.
Which means Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
what else has happened?
I am mindful  that while Mr and Mrs M wanted the PPI policies, not everything went as it should  have 
done and there were errors on Nationwides behalf.
In 2009, Mr and Mrs M tried to amend the PPI to Mr Ms sole name. This happened for policy  3  but 
not for policies 1 and 2.
In fact, Nationwide, in error, had not cancelled policies 1 and 2 at Mr and Mrs Ms request when Mr 
and Mrs M took out policy 3 in 2003.
Nationwide did initially try to pay the claim amount for policies 1 and 2 as it thought  the policies were 
in place when Mr M claimed in 2013 and therefore should have been in his name    but it then 
realised that policies 1 and 2 should have actually been cancelled from 2003.
Nationwide has now taken the steps  to correct this and ensure Mr and Mrs M have not lost out. It has 
refunded the additional premiums Mr and Mrs M paid from 2003 until 2018. It has also offered  
additional compensation, set at 8% simple  interest for the time Mr and Mrs M had been out of pocket  
of that money. 
And Nationwide deducted  the claim  amount that it initially  thought  should have been paid under 
policies 1 and 2 in 2013. 
Ref: DRN65556116I agree and think it is fair for it to do so. Had policies  1 and 2 not been in place, as they shouldnt have 
been, then Mr M wouldnt have received a claim  amount  under  each policy. So it is fair for Nationwide 
to deduct these  amounts from the offer of compensation.
I also think  Nationwides offer here is generous. Ill explain why. Nationwide  is now offering a full 
refund of what Mr and Mrs M paid towards policies  1 and 2  from 2003 until 2018.  So they are 
getting everything back they paid towards the policies  (minus the claims). 
In getting everything back, it includes any commission  Mr and Mrs M had paid. But Nationwide had 
offered and paid compensation for the level of unfair commission on policy  1 from 1996 until 2018,  
and on policy 2 from 2000 until 2018.  
So, as Mr and Mrs M are now getting everything back on policies 1 and 2 from 2003 until 2018,  
Nationwide was only required to offer the unfair commission on policy  1 from 1996  until 2003 and on 
policy 2 from 2000 until 2003. So they could have taken this into account  and deducted some of the 
commission compensation from its offer.  But they have not taken this into account. So I think  
Nationwides offer is generous.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M arent happy with Nationwide. They feel that it has got things wrong 
over the course of the policies and over the course of their complaint, which  leads them  to be unsure 
of whether everything has been fairly  resolved. 
I do agree that not everything went as it should have, but I am satisfied that Nationwide has now put 
things right as I would  expect it to. And its offer is generous given Nationwide didnt take into account 
that it could have  deducted some of the commission compensation it had paid previously from its offer 
of a refund of premiums  for policies 1 and 2 from 2003 until 2018. 
in summary
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide  does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI policies to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand  it has already  done this. It appears its 
offer here is more generous, for the reasons Ive explained above.  So I wouldnt ask it or direct it 
to pay anything  more in this regard. 
The offer Nationwide  has made to put right the fact that policies 1 and 2 should have been 
cancelled is fair.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I currently think that Nationwide Building Societys  offer fairly resolves  
any errors, puts things right and overall  ensures  Mr and Mrs M have not lost out.
 
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6555611