K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled his claim 
on his buildings  insurance following a fire at his house.
background
Mr F had a buildings insurance  policy that was underwritten by AA. In February 2019 there 
was a fire at his house that caused extensive damage to the building. He made a claim on 
the policy.
AA accepted the claim and sent out its contractors to inspect the damage and clean the 
premises.
It then appointed an independent surveyor to put together a scope of works that would be 
within AAs liability under the policy. A meeting was arranged with Mr F for this to happen.  
However Mr F expressed that he would like to appoint his own surveyor to produce the 
scope and to oversee  the repairs. AA said he could do that, but it wouldnt be covered under 
the policy so he would  have to pay for it. Mr F disputed this as he thought the policy wording 
stated that this would be covered. He made a complaint about this to AA.
AA didnt uphold  his complaint. It said that it does  cover  the cost of a surveyor, but in this 
case it had appointed its own so Mr Fs surveyor wouldnt  be covered in the cost. 
Mr F didnt  agree this was fair, he thought the policy wording  was unclear. He brought his 
complaint to our service.
While the complaint was at the service the claim continued to progress. Further meetings 
were arranged and some amendments made to the original scope. Mr F said he didnt think  
AAs scope went far enough  and asked his own surveyor to review  it. In particular he had 
concerns about  toxins left by the fire, if the property wasnt completely rebuilt.  
During the claim Mr F had been in alternative  accommodation, paid for by AA, however as 
the claim was taking a long time to settle,  the policy  limit was reached.
After some time AA offered to cash settle so that Mr F could carry out his own scope of 
works. However Mr F didnt think the settlement offered was fair. He had sourced  a number 
of quotes from other contractors and said this proved it wasnt  possible to complete the work 
for the amount offered as the cash settlement. 
Mr F made another complaint to AA about  the alternative accommodation,  safety concerns 
and the cash settlement.  
AA didnt uphold  this complaint. It said if a cash settlement is offered it will only pay what it 
would cost it to do the work and this is laid out in the policy.  It said it had made  the limit for 
the alternative accommodation clear  and didnt agree that it caused delays that meant  this 
amount was reached sooner. Finally, it said all work  would be carried out in line with building 
regulations and it was confident there would be no safety issues.
Mr F wasnt happy with this and asked  for both complaints to be looked at by this service. 
Ref: DRN60717012Our investigator considered all the issues from both complaints  but didnt recommend they 
be upheld. She said under  the policy AA can choose  to settle a claim how it sees fit, so isnt 
required to pay for Mr Fs surveyor. Further she said that it is reasonable for AA to pay only 
what it would  pay its contractor as the cash settlement.  Finally  she said that she didnt think 
the claim had been unnecessarily  delayed by AA and was satisfied that the proposed works 
were suitable and safe.
Mr F didnt  agree with her assessment and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the circumstances  have caused Mr F considerable stress. And its no doubt 
had an impact on many areas  of his life. The fire caused damage  to most of his home and 
this will no doubt be very distressing. It also means a long and complex insurance claim, 
while living in rented accommodation,  which can in itself cause stress and worry. However it 
is my role to consider the actions of AA and not the impact of the event itself. So I have 
based my decision  on whether  AA has treated Mr F fairly throughout the claim.
Mr F has raised  a number of different complaint points. As this is an informal  service I
havent responded to every one. I have  only addressed what I consider to be the key issues.
However I want to reassure Mr F that I have considered all the points he raised when
reaching my decision.
Appointing a surveyor
Mr F wanted to appoint his own surveyor to handle the claim.  He felt that the policy  wording 
states this would be paid for by AA. However AA disagree with this interpretation of the 
policy.
I have considered the policy wording.  The section Mr F has referred to is as follows,  under 
the what is covered  section:
After loss or damage insured  by this section:
associated costs  which we agree  to in advance;
architects, surveyors, consulting engineers, legal and other fees you have to pay to 
reinstate the building;  and
any extra  costs you have to pay when reinstating or repairing the building  to comply 
with Statutory Building Regulations
Mr F says that the cost of hiring  his own independent surveyor  falls into the second  point, as 
he feels it is a surveyor fee that he has to pay. And he says this wording suggests  it will be 
covered. 
I have considered this and although  I can empathise with Mr Fs interpretation of this term, I 
dont agree that this means the cost of his surveyor should be covered under the policy.  
The term starts by saying associated costs that are agreed in advance.  From looking 
through the correspondence between Mr F and AA, Mr F asked AA at the start of the claim if 
Ref: DRN60717013his independent surveyors fees would  be covered.  AA were  clear from the beginning that as 
it was appointing its own independent  surveyor, this wouldnt be necessary and therefore 
wouldnt be covered  under  the policy. As the policy says that costs need to be agreed in 
advance, and I can see AA has been  very clear  that this wouldnt be covered, I think it has 
acted fairly  by not agreeing to pay for these  additional  costs. As it is entitled to decide this 
under the policy  terms.
Further the second point listed above states that it will cover  fees  you have to pay to 
reinstate the building While I understand Mr F feels  it necessary to appoint his own 
surveyor, I dont agree that that this is a fee he has to pay.  This is because  a suitably 
qualified surveyor had already been appointed  by AA. And therefore the cost is not a 
necessary one in order to reinstate the building. Had AA declined  to appoint  a suitable 
contractor then I may have considered this necessary, but this isnt the case here.  
For these reasons I think AA has acted  fairly  by not agreeing to cover  the cost of Mr Fs own 
surveyor.
Scope of works and safety concerns
Mr F isnt happy with the scope of works that has been produced by AAs surveyor.  He says 
there are many points  missed and he has concerns about the safety  of the building after it 
has been exposed  to toxins from the fire. 
As I am not an expert, nor have I inspected the property  myself, it isnt for me to decide what 
work is and isnt necessary to restore the building. So I have examined the information 
provided from both sides  to decide  whether the proposal offered by AA is fair. 
AAs scope of works was put together by a qualified independent surveyor,  who visited the 
property on a number  of occasions  when  compiling it. From looking at the scope it is detailed 
and extensive.  It has also been revised as mitigation works have taken place  and new 
issues identified. I am therefore  satisfied  that it is a reliable record of the repair  works  
required.
I understand that Mr F doesnt  feel it goes far enough. And he feels  due to toxins  that may 
be present in the structure of the remaining building, it would be more  suitable to rebuild the 
entire property. The independent surveyor appointed by AA has to work within buildings 
regulations in order to ensure a building is safe.  I have looked  at the evidence Mr F has 
provided regarding  exposure to toxins  from fire damage. However I dont think  that applies to 
this situation.  It is often the case that buildings dont need to be completely demolished after 
a fire, and parts of the original structure  can be used to do this. I am satisfied that AA has 
demonstrated its surveyor followed all relevant regulations to ensure the safety of the 
building. 
For these reasons I think AAs scope  of works  is suitable for the work  required. 
Cash settlement
Mr F doesnt think the amount AA has offered is fair. He has obtained four further quotes to 
demonstrate that he wouldnt be able to get the work  done  for that amount. 
The policy states  under  general conditions:
Ref: DRN60717014Buildings (Section  4)
At our option we will arrange for the work  to be carried out or pay the cost of repairing or 
reinstating the building as new.
If a repair  is not carried  out, or if the loss or damage  involves part of the building that is in a 
poor state of repair or redecoration,  then
we will decide to either:
a) Pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the damage,  less a deduction for any wear  and tear
b) Pay the difference in the market value of the building immediately before and immediately 
after the damage. 
This amount will not exceed what we would have  paid under point a).
Therefore it is for AA to decide how the claim is settled. And if a cash settlement is chosen 
as the most suitable option, this wont exceed what AA would pay its contractors to complete  
the work.  
Insurers receive discounted rates from contractors, so a cash settlement will almost always  
be below  the market price. So although I can see that Mr Fs quotes  are higher than the 
amount, this is to be expected due to the discounted  rates  available to AA. So I cant  say 
that the amount offered is unreasonable.
I have also considered AAs decision to cash settle. Mr F feels  that the only appropriate 
action is to rebuild the property in its entirety. And I can empathise with this point of view.  
However this isnt covered under his insurance. So doing this would be at his own discretion. 
In situations like this  where the insured would like to carry out work in excess of the policy 
cover  it is usual for the insurer to offer a cash settlement. This means the insured  can carry 
out the full extent of the work they wish to. Rather than settling for less work, that is covered 
under the policy.
Mr F can choose  to have the work  completed  by AAs contractors. However this would only 
be up to the liability  of the policy.  So this wouldnt  be a complete rebuild. 
As these  two options have been offered by AA, I am satisfied that it has acted fairly and in 
line with the policy.  Mr F has the option to rebuild the property at his own additional cost, or 
have the work completed up to the limit of the policy cover. I think  this is fair. I therefore 
wont ask AA to do anything differently in relation to the settlement offered. 
Alternative accommodation and delays
Mr F has said that the claim has taken much  longer to settle than it should have done and 
this has led to the limit of his alternative  accommodation being reached  sooner. 
Having reviewed the correspondence provided by both Mr F and AA I dont agree that AA 
has delayed the claim.  I can see the claim has taken longer to settle than I would expect but 
this has been  largely  due to the dispute about  how the claim will be settled. From what Ive 
seen AA has responded quickly  to Mr Fs requests and correspondence and has been clear 
from the start about the limit of the alternative accommodation. 
I therefore wont ask AA to do anything differently in relation to the amount paid for 
alternative accommodation. 
Ref: DRN60717015my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I wont require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to 
do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2020
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6071701