K821x#15complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for the complaint. Although FICL didnt actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mrs P was sold a PPI policy with a store card in 2003. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ps complaint didnt think  FICL explained the terms and 
conditions of the PPI policy clearly  to Mrs P. And he didnt think  Mrs P wouldve bought the 
policy if it had. FICL  disagrees, so Mrs Ps complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mrs P enough  clear information about  the PPI so she could make  an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think  if FICL had given Mrs P the clear  
information she needed she wouldnt have bought the policy.
Its likely  the policy Mrs P was sold wouldnt have covered her for any medical condition she 
had when she bought it. Mrs P says she had a significant medical condition when she was 
sold the policy. Mrs P says that shed been diagnosed with the condition  at a relatively young 
age in 1997.
Ive looked at the notes FICL  has sent us about  its investigation into Mrs Ps complaint. FICL 
says it was told by Mrs P about  her medical  condition but FICL thinks the PPI was not 
inappropriate for Mrs P as the medical condition was probably controllable  and she had not 
had time off work for it prior to the sale.
But, as Ive said, I think its likely the PPI excluded cover for Mrs Ps known medical 
condition. Mrs P has told us about her condition from the beginning and seems to have been 
consistent in having done so with FICL as well. And I think the medical  condition  had a 
likelihood of significantly affecting her in later life and she would have been aware of this. So, 
on the basis of this and the information  Ive seen  (which in terms of FICLs own investigation 
has been quite  limited),  I think  its likely the exclusion in the policy wouldve mattered to Mrs 
P when  she bought the PPI. 
And there was no information about this exclusion on the application form Mrs P signed 
when she was sold the PPI policy. So I havent  seen anything to show  FICL did enough  to 
make this exclusion clear to Mrs P.
Ref: DRN61562142If it had done, and based on the information Ive got, I think its unlikely Mrs P wouldve gone 
ahead with the policy if shed known she wasnt likely to have been  covered if shed needed  
time off work because  of her known  medical  condition. 
I think Mrs P has lost out because of what FICL  has done wrong and so it should put things 
right.
putting things right
I understand Mrs Ps account is closed.
FICL should put Mrs P in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs P wouldve owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs P owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs P wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs P would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs P 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balances, FICL should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mrs P paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mrs P 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from the interest. FICL  must  give Mrs P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint  and direct  Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN61562143Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6156214