K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have not upheld a claim he made to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
Mr M signed a contract to secure blood chord  storage in 2017.  He paid over the phone with 
his Santander  credit card and believes  the supplier used a terminal  provided by a payment 
processing company  Ill call P.
In the summer  of 2018 he discovered  that the supplier had been liquidated. He was unable 
to discover the location of the stem  cells hed paid to store.
He therefore made  a section 75 claim to Santander as he said section 75 allowed him a like 
claim against them, as the provider of credit, as he would have against  the supplier.
Santander rejected  his claim as they said the required debtor-creditor-supplier link had been 
broken They  said the money  hadnt been paid to the supplier but had been paid to P.
So Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided his view on the 
matter. He reviewed Mr Ms credit card statement  and noted that the narrative suggested the 
payment had gone to the supplier but that the suppliers name on the statement was prefixed 
with Pp. So he called P and asked them about  this. They  told him the money  would have 
been transferred  from Mr M to the suppliers  account with P from where  they would be able 
to transfer it into their own account.  So he didnt  think the debtor-creditor-supplier link had 
been broken.  He thought  the payment had been  made to the supplier, albeit that it was 
stored in an account  for them to access.
So he considered Mr Ms claim.  He noted that the contract allowed for the cells to be 
accessed by Mr M or his partner over a twenty five year period and he didnt think  that 
access had been  possible since the supplier had gone into liquidation. So he thought 
Santander should refund  the £1,900 Mr M had paid the supplier as the service  had not been  
provided and the contract had been  breached.
As there was no agreement Mr Ms complaint was referred for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Santander but I agree with the adjudicators  view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN65492512board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. So if I was satisfied that Mr M did not get the service  hed paid the supplier for 
Id think it fair and reasonable that Santander  refund him.
But for the creditor, Santander in this case, to have that liability  it needs to have a relevant 
relationship with the supplier of the goods and here Santander argues that it hasnt, as the 
payment was made to P and not the supplier.
But Mr M has explained he made the payment  on the phone to the supplier and I think its 
therefore likely that the supplier had a commercial entity agreement  with P. I think  its 
unlikely P will be able to confirm the nature of the agreement it had with the supplier as it 
hasnt got their permission to do so and that wont change  now that the supplier has been 
liquidated. But I think its most likely, in all the circumstances, that P did have a commercial 
entity agreement  with the supplier to process payments. I say that because:
P explained the nature of the transaction and that the payment would be made to the 
suppliers account with them;
Mr M called the supplier to make the payment and not P.
So Im persuaded  that the nature of the arrangement between the supplier and P does not 
stop there being  a valid debtor, creditor, supplier relationship. 
Mr Ms contract with the supplier said the cells should be available  to be accessed for twenty 
five years.  It explained  that if the volume of chord  blood was inadequate, for them to provide 
the service, they would contact Mr M. The agreement went on to explain that if they didnt 
make contact Mr M could assume the sample  was adequate. The supplier didnt make 
contact with Mr M so I think its therefore likely the blood sample was adequate and the stem 
cells could be stored. Im persuaded from Mr Ms testimony that he doesnt  know of the 
whereabouts of the cells in question and I therefore think  there  has been a breach  of the 
terms of the contract  Mr M entered into with the supplier.  In those circumstances I think  the 
fairest resolution would be for Santander to refund the money Mr M paid for the service.
Ref: DRN65492513my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander UK Plc to 
refund the £1,900 Mr M has paid the supplier for the service he hasnt received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6549251