K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that Echo Finance Limited mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
The circumstances leading to Ms S complaint,  together with my initial  findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 30 November 2018, a copy of which is attached to this final decision.
Neither Ms S nor Echo made any further  comments or sent us any new information about 
this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision in this case.
As neither party has said or sent us anything new, I see no reason to change  my provisional 
decision.
putting things right
Echo must put Ms S into the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out MPPI. 
Echo should:
Pay Ms S the amount  she paid each month for the MPPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back.  
The rate of interest is 8% a year;
If Ms S made a successful claim under the MPPI  policy Echo can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 If Echo considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give Ms S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision my decision is that Echo 
Finance Limited  must pay Ms S compensation as set out in my calculation  for putting things 
right above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Ros Barnett
Ref: DRN67393952ombudsman
Ref: DRN67393953copy  of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Ms S complains  that Echo  Finance Limited  mis-sold  her a mortgage payment  protection insurance, 
(MPPI), policy.
background
Ms S bought the monthly-premium MPPI policy  with a mortgage in 2015. The sale took place during a 
meeting. And Echo sold at least one other insurance  product to Ms S at that time.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Ms S complaint should be upheld.  But as Echo disagreed with 
this view the matter has come to me to decide. As Ive said above, Im also minded to uphold this 
complaint in the light of what Ive seen so far. But my provisional findings  below  deal with the 
evidence we have in a bit more detail. So I felt it was fair and reasonable to give the parties  an 
opportunity to comment on this before  I make my final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance  on 
our website. Ive followed  this in making my decision in this case.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold  Ms S complaint because Echo recommended the policy to Ms S 
but I dont think that it was suitable for her. I say this because Ms S had an existing medical condition  
at the time she bought  the policy, for which  she was getting  treatment.
Echo hasnt  sent us a copy of the policy so I dont  know what its full terms and conditions were. But 
when Ms S was off work because of the condition her claim was refused. The insurer said that this 
was because Ms S knew  she had the condition  at the time she took out the policy, and hadnt had a 
two year period during  which she neither saw a doctor or consultant about it nor received treatment 
for it, before claiming. So I think its reasonable  to assume  that the policy didnt cover pre-existing 
medical conditions in the circumstances that arose in Ms S case.
Because it was face-to-face I dont know everything that Echo told Ms S about  the MPPI at the time it 
sold it to her. But Ive seen  paperwork completed by Echo recording some of the discussions that it 
had with her. I can see that in connection with the MPPI it records Ms S as having said that she 
wasnt aware of any circumstances that could  result in her becoming unemployed. Im satisfied that 
the fact that Ms S knew she had suffered from the condition didnt mean that she knew of any 
circumstance that could result  in her becoming unemployed.
But I can see that, as part of her acceptance of the MPPI quote, Ms S was required to give permission 
to electronically  sign a declaration.  This declaration  included, amongst other matters,  a tick in the No 
box in response to the question: Are you aware  of any impending sickness or disability which may 
affect you?. However there is no record of Echo asking Ms S any specific questions about her health 
in connection with the MPPI,  or explaining why this was important.  Ms S says that wasnt done.  And, 
as this declaration was part of a long, closely-typed document, Im satisfied that, in the absence  of 
anything highlighting this point to her, it would have been unreasonable  to have expected Ms S to 
have noticed that there was additional information  about her circumstances  on the form about which  
she hadnt been specifically  asked.
Ref: DRN67393954I would contrast  the sales procedure in connection with the MPPI with that for the life cover Ms S was 
sold at the same meeting.  In connection with the latter I can see that there is a record that Ms S 
answered yes in response to a question whether  she had suffered from the condition  at any time in 
the previous five years.  And that she gave some further details relating to it. This clearly  shows that 
Ms S made Echo aware that she suffered from the condition. And Ive seen nothing  to show that Echo 
made it clear that this might  affect her ability to make a successful claim  under the MPPI were she to 
be off work  because of it. Nor has Echo explained why it then submitted applications  which contained 
inconsistent information, without clarifying the discrepancy  with Ms S. 
Echo says that as its advisor was aware of Ms S health issues he would  have gone into detail about  
the effect her having suffered the condition  would have on any claims. And that the advisor  would 
have confirmed  that this was the case with all the policies  sold during the meeting, including  the   
MPPI. Thats possible,  but I havent seen anything to show that he did this. And, in the absence  of any 
more persuasive evidence, I think that its fair and reasonable for Ms S to have concluded that her 
medical history  might have  restricted her ability to successfully claim on her life policy, as questions 
about her health were  asked in connection with that. But to have thought that it had no effect on her 
ability to successfully claim on her MPPI policy.
As Ms S claim  was later refused because of the condition  this shows that she wasnt able to claim 
successfully in all the circumstances that I think that she would have expected to have been able to. 
So I dont think the policy Echo advised her to buy was right for her. And had she been told about  this 
limitation I dont think that she would have bought the policy. This means that Ms S has lost out 
because of the way Echo handled the sale of the MPPI.
putting things  right
I intend  to tell Echo to put Ms S into the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out MPPI. 
Echo should:
Pay Ms S the amount  she paid each month  for the MPPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Ms S made a successful claim under the MPPI  policy Echo can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.
 If Echo considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms S how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Ms S a tax deduction certificate 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given above my provisional  decision is that I will uphold this complaint. And 
subject to any further comments or evidence  that I get, as above, I will order Echo Finance  Limited to 
pay Ms S compensation in accordance with the calculation Ive set out above.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6739395