K820x#14complaint
Ms T and Mr F complain  that Nationwide Building Society has given them two mortgage 
accounts instead of combining their additional  borrowing with their existing mortgage 
account as theyd requested. They ask that Nationwide combines the two loans and refunds 
one of the product fees.
background
Ms T and Mr F took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2015 to purchase a shared  ownership 
property. In early 2018 they asked Nationwide for additional borrowing to buy the remaining 
share of the property.  Theyd received a valuation for the purchase which was valid for three 
months: they needed to complete the purchase  by mid April 2018.   
Ms T and Mr F say they told Nationwide they want one loan account. They say they were 
prepared to pay the early  repayment charge on their existing  loan to achieve this. Instead,  
Nationwide required them to have two loan accounts  one for the original loan and one for 
the additional borrowing. Ms T and Mr F say that Nationwide told them  theyd have to have 
two loan accounts but would only have to pay one product  fee. 
Ms T and Mr F say that Nationwide misled them. They say having  two accounts means they 
have to make two decisions about  new products and pay double  the fees. And they say this 
will complicate re-mortgaging with another provider. Ms T and Mr F also say that Nationwide 
required them to extend the term of their mortgage, which  will cost them  more  in interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
Nationwide doesnt have recordings of Ms Ts call with her branch.  Having  listened  to the 
available call recordings, there was discussion about the fees for the product Ms T and 
Mr F were  applying  for. But Nationwide didnt  tell Ms T and Mr F that they wouldnt have 
to pay a product  fee for a subsequent  product  transfer.
Nationwides policy is that further  borrowing requires a separate  application. It doesnt 
combine borrowing into one account. This is a decision Nationwide  is entitled to make.
Ms T and Mr F didnt  have to take out a product with a fee when they took out the 
additional borrowing. For instance, they could  have left it on the tracker  rate until they 
were able to transfer out of their existing  product (May  2018). They  chose to take out a 
fixed rate product  as they didnt like the idea of rates fluctuating.  Ms T and Mr F didnt 
have to choose products with fees in future. 
Ms T and Mr F discussed their monthly budget  with the mortgage adviser when applying 
for the further  borrowing and selected the monthly payment  amount. This required a 
longer term. As Nationwides  policy is that all loan accounts have the same term, it also 
extended the term of the existing loan.
Our adjudicator said that while Ms T and Mr F were unhappy with the mortgage process and 
outcome, there was no evidence Nationwide had done anything wrong.
Ms T and Mr F didnt  agree. Ms T said she understood that Nationwide can make  decisions  
about its products  and lending policy. But the advice it gave them was contradictory, 
misleading and inaccurate.
Ref: DRN66130622Ms T said Nationwide shouldnt be excused just because  it cant  provide all of the call 
recordings, especially  as shed provided her evidence  of what was said. She said while  the 
adviser mentioned  a tracker he didnt say this could be for a short period and without an exit 
fee. She said the adviser showed  no understanding of what they wanted  to achieve. Ms T 
said a fee free product  would have a higher interest rate so theyd pay more either way.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
I can understand Ms T and Mr Fs aims here.  They wanted to buy the remaining share  of 
their property. To do this, they needed additional  borrowing. They  wanted to do this in a way 
that meant  they have one loan account and one mortgage product to minimise fees and 
administration. 
Im sorry  that Ms T and Mr F werent able to achieve  this. But I dont  think, based on the 
available evidence, Nationwide  made an error.
Ms T spoke to a mortgage adviser in February  2018.  Ive listened to these  calls.  The adviser 
said that there would  be separate mortgage accounts for the existing loan and the additional  
borrowing. Ms T said she understood  this. So I think Ms T and Mr F were aware there would 
be two mortgage  accounts before they agreed  to the additional  borrowing. 
The mortgage adviser discussed Ms T and Mr Fs monthly budget and the term of the 
mortgage. Ms T told the mortgage  adviser what the maximum  amount was that they felt 
comfortable paying each month. To meet this budget, the term needed  to be 25 years.  The 
mortgage adviser explained that a longer term would mean the mortgage  would  cost more 
overall. 
Nationwides policy is that both mortgage accounts should have the same term. So the 
existing loan was extended. Ms T provided a copy of an email shed sent to a family member  
in early February 2018. This email  refers to the existing  loan being  extended to 25 years. So 
Ms T and Mr F were  aware of this before  they took out the additional borrowing. 
Ms T and Mr F had agreed a product for their existing loan which  had an early repayment 
charge (ERC) of about £1,100. The product  ended  in August 2018. The mortgage  adviser  
said Nationwide would  allow a switch  (without paying the ERC) in the last three months of 
the product.  But Ms T and Mr F had to complete their purchase by mid April 2018. So they 
couldnt switch  products  for their existing loan at the same time as they took out the new 
loan without paying the ERC. 
Nationwides adviser said Ms T and Mr F could take a tracker product which had no ERC 
Then, when  the ERC no longer applied, they could  review  products for the existing loan and 
the further borrowing at the same time. Ms T said she was more  concerned  about interest 
rate rises than reviewing the two loan accounts at the same time. 
Ref: DRN66130623Ms T says the recording of the February  call provided by Nationwide  is incomplete. While the 
call recording  is in more than one part, I dont think from listening to it that part of the 
recording is missing. Ms T says she had other calls with Nationwide  for which  Nationwide  
doesnt have recordings. Its clear that Ms T did speak to staff at her branch before the call 
with the mortgage adviser. I understand her frustration that recordings arent available. 
But I havent seen  evidence  by which I mean a call recording or written evidence  such as 
an email or letter from Nationwide  that Nationwide told Ms T and Mr F theyd be able to 
switch their existing loan to a new product  without  paying the applicable product fee. 
I dont think Nationwide  made an error with Ms T and Mr Fs mortgage. Nationwide told Ms T 
and Mr F what options were available. Based on the available  evidence, I dont think 
Nationwide misled Ms T and Mr F.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6613062