K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Newcastle Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on their behalf  by a claims management 
company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2003. The policy  was taken out to cover  
their mortgage and was in Mr Ws name only. It provided him with cover  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs W didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that:
They  didnt know they had PPI, it was added without their knowledge.  No discussion 
took place, they were simply  told to sign.
They  were only very young at the time.
Mr Ws parents would  have  met their mortgage  repayments if either  of them  couldnt  
work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Newcastle has only been able to provide limited paperwork from the time of the sale, which 
isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place so long ago. In cases like this, where 
the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have  to make my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  that is, to decide  what is most likely to have  happened  in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
I dont think from what Newcastle has told us that it recommended the PPI. As Newcastle 
didnt recommend the policy, it didnt need  to ensure that it was suitable for Mr and Mrs W.
So the key question I need  to consider  is did Newcastle give Mr and Mrs W information  that 
was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them  in a position where they could make 
an informed choice about the insurance  they were  buying?
And, if there  was a problem with the way the policy  was sold,  then I need to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs W are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something  
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been  any problems with the 
sale?
Ref: DRN68147302Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage in 1988  and further lending  secured on their home in 
1993. The PPI wasnt taken out until 2003. So Mr and Mrs W wouldve known they didnt 
need the PPI for their mortgage to be approved  the lending was already  in place. From the 
records Newcastle made at the time,  it looks like a member of staff spoke to Mr W when he 
was in one of its branches and afterwards he was sent an application form. The society then 
phoned Mr W who confirmed hed like to go ahead and would be sending it his application. 
Overall, I think Newcastle  made Mr and Mrs W aware that PPI was optional  and they chose 
to take it out.
Mr and Mrs W say they were only very young at the time,  so they just signed where they 
were told. I can see they were young  when they took the mortgage out, but the PPI was 
taken around 15 years  later. And Ive explained  how the PPI was taken out so I think  Mr and 
Mrs W had time to read through the paperwork before they decided  to make  an application.
Its possible the information the society gave  Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it should have  been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy  if 
they had received better information.  I say this because:
Mrs W has told us she wasnt  employed  in 2003, so she wouldnt have been eligible for 
the policy. This wouldve been  why the policy was taken out in Mr Ws name only  he 
was eligible for the policy. 
Mr W wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think  it unlikely he needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr W told us he wouldve only received statutory sick pay if he couldnt work due to 
sickness or an accident. And, because Mrs W wasnt working, I think  they probably  
wanted to make sure their mortgage  payments would  be covered if Mr W couldnt work, 
or became unemployed. Their  mortgage  was a major  long term financial commitment 
and their home  was at risk if they couldnt meet the repayments.
Ive taken  into account what Mr and Mrs W have told us about Mr Ws parents being  
able to help them  if he was unable to work or lost his job. But, as this wasnt a 
guaranteed source  of income,  it doesnt change my conclusion.
I can see that during one of its phone calls to Mr W, the society  told him how much  the 
policy would cost - £6.30  each month. So I think Mr and Mrs W were  aware  of the cost 
before they agreed  to the policy.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs W wouldve made a different 
decision about taking  out the policy if better  information had been provided  to them   overall 
I think they would have still taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN68147303my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6814730