K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited wont pay their 
home insurance claim for storm damage  to their roof.
background
In December 2018 Mr and Mrs N noticed a leak coming through their bedroom  ceiling.  They 
rang Lloyds  to make a claim  who advised  them about its criteria for covering storm damage. 
It advised that it was likely to be a maintenance issue but said it would consider any builders 
report and photos.  Mr and Mrs N contacted a builder  who repaired some  damaged  tiles on 
the roof and gave his opinion that the damage  to the tiles was likely  to be due to high winds.  
Mr and Mrs N reverted to Lloyds but it still wouldnt deal with the claim. It advised  that the 
weather records showed  that there  were  no storm conditions  on or about  the time the 
damage was reported. 
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy  about  this. They said theyd been asked for photos of the roof, 
not of the damaged section of tiles. They also said the weather records werent reliable  
their house  is on a hill and could suffer more severe weather than shown in the records.  
Lloyds said it still wouldnt pay the claim.  But it said that it shouldnt have asked 
Mr and Mrs N for a report and photos  as it wasnt going to pay the claim any way due to 
there being no storm. For the inconvenience  caused it made  a payment to them of £75.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably. He 
pointed out that there had been  no storm conditions according to the terms of the policy. He 
also advised that Lloyds had acted  fairly  in not considering the incident as accidental  
damage.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that although Lloyds had reasonably said the 
external damage  wasnt covered, it should consider  the internal damage.
Mr and Mrs N thought  that this was unfair.  They pointed out again that their house was on 
top of the hill. They felt that they had been  put in the bracket of making a false claim. They 
felt that their claim should have been taken  seriously  as clearly in the winter  if your roof is 
leaking you have to get the person out asap.
Lloyds said it would  consider the claim for internal damage, although pointed out that, from 
the policy renewal  date after the claim accidental  damage cover is excluded  for water 
entering the home.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
storm damage
As our investigator advised Mr and Mrs N, when considering storm damage we ask three  
questions, and it is only if the answer  to each  of these questions is most  likely yes that we 
say a claim for storm damage should  succeed.  The questions  are:
Ref: DRN695821221. Was there a storm on or around  the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
In this case, I think the answer to question  1 is no. Under the terms of the policy storm was 
defined as:
strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph and/or hail or snow of such intensity or weight that 
it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
Although the original  policy  term was slightly different, Im satisfied that the above definition,  
which came  into effect in August 2018, applies. The weather records  show  on the day the 
damage took place  that there  was Heavy precipitation and total rain for the whole 24 hours  
to be 16.8mm. No rainfall was recorded  for the three previous days. Our approach which  we 
apply if theres no definition of storm in a policy is that storm generally involves violent winds, 
usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. Here  wind speed was recorded  as being a 
maximum of 36mph for the same  period and I dont consider that to be violent.
I think it is unlikely that there was the sort of intense  rainfall suggested by the policy term 
here or that the rainfall caused  the damage  to the tiles. In any event Mr and Mrs Ns builder 
said the damage was likely to have been  caused by high winds. But again wind speeds of 
36mph are most unlikely to cause damage to roof tiles.
Im satisfied that under the terms of the policy there was no storm. I know Mr and Mrs N are 
unhappy with this and have said that because of the position of their house this creates  a 
wind tunnel effect. But I can only rely on official records, and there  is no other expert  
evidence that suggest the weather in the area around their house was likely different to hat 
recorded by the local weather station. Given the available  evidence, I cant reasonably 
conclude that there  was likely a storm in the area of Mr and Mrs Ns property on the day in 
question. 
As Ive not found that there was a storm, I wont go on to consider the other two questions.
accidental damage
I cant actually see that Lloyds formally turned  down  a claim for accidental  damage. There  
was an email on its file to Mr and Mrs N suggesting  that they contact the claims team if they 
wanted to pursue such a claim.  The policy definition of accidental damage is:
An accident that causes  physical damage, which is caused suddenly  by an outside force 
and is not expected and not deliberate.
This would be for example if something fell on the roof. Whilst they are free to still pursue 
such a claim Mr and Mrs N would have to show on the face of it that some outside event 
took place which caused the damage  in order for Lloyds to investigate further.
But while it would be difficult to show that the external  damage  came under accidental 
damage, I note that there was some internal damage, which required sealing and painting  
the bedroom ceiling. I dont know whether Mr and Mrs N had this work done, as their builder 
only gave a quote for it, of £250, and there  is a £200 excess  on the policy.  Whilst the rainfall 
didnt come within the definition of storm, the internal damage caused by it in my view 
Ref: DRN69582123would come within the accidental damage definition. I particularly  bear in mind that the part 
of the roof where  the water came in was said to be inaccessible except by scaffolding.  I will 
require Lloyds to reconsider this part of the claim,  but only if Mr and Mrs N tell it they want  to 
make a claim for this. They should bear in mind the excess on their policy.
claim handling
Lloyds says it shouldnt  have asked Mr and Mrs N to obtain further evidence when it wasnt 
going to pay the claim  anyway  because there  was no storm. This did put Mr and Mrs N to 
some inconvenience,  although if they were going to make a claim for accidental damage  it 
may have  been  useful  for that. And theyd  still have needed to get quotes  to fix the damage.  
But I think Lloyds recognised that it unreasonably  raised their expectations. I think  the 
payment of £75 was reasonable  to reflect this.
I understand what Mr and Mrs N say, but I have to reiterate that the storm damage  cover  in 
the policy only applies where a storm can be established. And the evidence  unfortunately 
doesnt show that. I would emphasise  however that theres no allegation  that Mr and Mrs N 
have made  a false claim. Its simply that a home  insurance policy  only covers specific 
perils. It doesnt cover general maintenance of a property. I appreciate that they needed to 
get work  done  urgently  and that they didnt know of any problem with their roof but I think  its 
unlikely that any ordinary home  insurance policy would cover  that.
With regard to the internal damage, Lloyds will cover that. But if the cost of that repair is very 
close to the excess  it might not be worth Mr and Mrs N claiming. They  should  tell Lloyds if 
they want it to cover  the cost of their internal  damage. 
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and, if Mr and Mrs N want to make a claim, require Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited to reconsider the claim for internal damage  to their 
property.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6958212