K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund her under s75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 for a holiday that she considers was overcharged  and misrepresented.
background.
Mrs A booked a two week sailing holiday in November 2016 for herself and her husband. On 
30 July 2017,  a few days before the start of the holiday, Mrs A contacted  the company to ask 
if her daughter could  join them for few days. The company agreed she could  stay for 3 nights 
at a cost of £100 a night. It was then agreed  this could be extended for up to 5 nights at the 
same rate. Nothing  was agreed if the stay went beyond that.
Mrs A paid for 3 nights  up front. On 3 August she contacted the company to say her 
daughter wanted  to stay a further  3 nights. The company said, as this was more  than the 5 
nights, it would charge  for a weeks holiday at what was termed a sailors rate.  The total 
cost was £1,050.
Mrs A said she felt under pressure as the boat was due to leave harbour and she needed to 
resolve matters a quickly as possible.  She agreed  to pay but she feels  the cost was 
excessive. The company had agreed  to charge £100 a night for 5 nights so it couldnt  be 
correct to charge  £1,050 for a week. She notes her daughter only stayed  6 nights, not 7.
Mrs A also complains that her daughter  didnt  get the benefit of the flights,  transfers and 
linen that a weekly holiday should have  included with the result  she paid a significant  amount 
in taxis and transfers in addition to the £1,050. She says the company deducted £100 as no 
flights were taken but she doesnt feel this reflects their real value. Further  by not providing 
the transfers, flights and other services that a weekly  passenger  would have had, Mrs A 
considers the company was in breach of contract and that it also misrepresented  the 
charges for the holiday.
Mrs A complained to Lloyds Bank  under s75 Consumer Credit Act and is unhappy Lloyds 
has refused the claim.
Lloyds said Mrs A had been  told the costs up front and agreed to them  so it didnt agree 
thered been misrepresentation  or a breach of contract.
Our investigator also didnt uphold  the complaint. He said the initial  arrangement with the 
company was for up to 5 nights.  When Mrs A had asked to extend it beyond  5 nights, the 
company was entitled to negotiate new terms at that point. Hed seen the company  had told 
Mrs A what  the cost would be before she agreed  to it and Mrs A could at that point have  
limited the stay to 5 nights as previously agreed.  She didnt do so and for that reason, he 
didnt agree thered been misrepresentation.
While the weekly cost would usually have included transfers, flights and linen, hed taken 
into account the last minute nature of the arrangements and didnt feel the company had 
acted unfairly. And he couldnt see Mrs A had raised the issue of the missing  linen at the 
time. In the circumstances he didnt feel Lloyds decision not to uphold  the s75 claim was 
unreasonable so he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mrs A disagreed and said when the company quoted the weekly rate, it hadnt taken into 
account its previous  agreement  for the 5 nights. She felt it should have billed that rate for 
those nights and only billed an extra charge for the one additional night. Mrs A repeated  her 
Ref: DRN65191602view that the companys  calculations were incorrect and that the failure to provide  the usual 
services of a package holiday meant thered  been  a breach of contract. She asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I should explain that where theres  no 
information on any particular point  or the evidence available  is disputed  as is the case here 
on some  points  Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Id also add that Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate  my comments  on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it in order  
to reach  what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs A paid the company for the cost of her daughters stay using her credit card. As such  
shes entitled to bring  a claim against  the card provider, Lloyds, under s75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 if the service was misrepresented  to her or if there  was a breach of contract.
Its not my role to decide if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation as 
ultimately thats a legal issue thats best determined by the courts.  I have however reviewed 
the claim and the complaint to see if Lloyds  dealt with it fairly.
With regard to the claim Ive seen  Mrs A feels there was both misrepresentation as to the 
costs of the stay and also breach of contract  as some of the items that should have been 
included in the price werent available or offered.
If I look first at the costs,  its clear that initially the discussions between  Mrs A and the 
company were on the basis that Mrs As daughter  would stay 3 nights. As the company 
says, it usually sells holidays in blocks of a week or more so the price  of £100 a night  was in 
effect a goodwill gesture  for what was intended to be a short visit. And although  the 
company then agreed to extend the offer for up to 5 nights in total,  nothing  was said as to 
what would  happen  after that. 
Ive seen Mrs A feels the cost of the extra night  was excessive. She says the company 
should have billed at the agreed rate of £100  a night for the first five and then added on a 
further charge  for the extra night.  That would be one approach but I cant  agree the company 
was required to do this. It had made clear that any previous agreement was for up to 5 
nights only. When Mrs A called to say she wanted her daughter to stay longer, then that 
previous arrangement effectively came to an end and a new one had to be put in place.
The company told Mrs A that if her daughter stayed 6 nights, the cost would be £1,050. Its 
clear Mrs A feels  this was a breach of their previous agreement but as Mrs A was told the 
cost - and she agreed to it - I dont consider she was misled.
Ive taken into account the circumstances  of the call. I can see Mrs A was under pressure to 
decide quickly and I dont doubt it was a difficult decision. Nevertheless  Mrs A could even at 
that point have decided to go back to the original agreement for a 5 night  stay and, if she 
had, then Id expect the company to have billed her at the rate previously agreed.  But Mrs A 
agreed to go ahead with the longer stay even after she was told what the additional cost 
Ref: DRN65191603would be, and knowing that her daughter would only be staying 6 nights, not 7. In the 
circumstances I cant reasonably agree the company misrepresented  the cost.
With regard to a breach  of contract, Ive taken  into account what Mrs A says about this, and 
that any weekly holiday should have included flights, transfers and linen. I know  Mrs A feels 
the failure to provide these was a breach of contract  but I think it needs to be seen in 
context.
Ive seen the company stated the £1,050  was a sailor rate but I havent  seen  anything  that 
explains what this meant so its difficult to say with any certainty what should  have  been  
included. For that reason  its also not clear that the failure to provide any particular service 
would be a breach  of contract.
It seems  the company  accepted  that transfers and flights  would be included but when Mrs A 
agreed to go ahead on 3 August she did so knowing that her daughter wouldnt need any 
flights as these had already  been booked. She also knew  that the outgoing taxi and transfer 
costs wouldnt be included as these had already taken place. That left the final transfer but 
all such transfers depend on availability  and location and the shorter the notice, the less 
availability there is so in the circumstances I dont think  it was unreasonable for the company 
not to be able to organise this at short notice and after the holiday had already started. Ive 
seen however that it did offer a coach transfer if required. It also deducted  £100  as no flights 
were required. I know Mrs A feels this isnt enough but the value for any individual  service  
within an overall package  is a matter of judgement rather  than a breach of contract.
I realise this isnt the decision Mrs A was hoping for but on the basis  that Mrs A was told the 
cost of a 6 night  stay before she agreed  to go ahead - and she went ahead on that basis  - I 
dont think Lloyds was unreasonable in deciding that there  hadnt  been either 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract  and to reject this claim on that basis. In the 
circumstances I wont be asking Lloyds  to do anything more to resolve  this complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6519160