K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are being represented  by a claims management company. Theyre  
complaining about Lloyds  Bank PLC because  they say they were mis-sold  investments into 
individual savings  accounts (ISAs) and an open-ended investment  company (OEIC).  Their  
representative says the investments were unsuitable, particularly in view of their lack of 
experience and the amount of their money  they put into them.
background
Following advice from a Lloyds adviser in 2008,  Mr and Mrs S invested £40,000 into its 
capital protected  fund.  This was designed  to return their capital in full if held for the full term 
of six years and two months  with any growth dependant  on the performance of the FTSE 
100 share  index during the term. Their  investment  consisted of £4,000 each into ISAs  and 
£32,000 into an OEIC, all in the same fund.
I understand Mr and Mrs S held their investments to the end of the term.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
partly upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision. Lloyds has since 
confirmed it didnt offer the kind of product I initially suggested it should  use as a comparison 
for calculating compensation. So I wrote again,  with a copy  to Mr and Mrs Ss representative,  
with alternative proposals based on the rates of interest Lloyds would have paid on a three-
year fixed-rate deposit account  in 2008  and then on another similar product in 2011,  if the 
proceeds had been  rolled  over into it at maturity.
Lloyds didnt accept  my provisional  decision  and made the following points:
The terms of business letter that would have been  given  to Mr and Mrs S explained 
Lloyds advisers could on recommend products from its own range.
 
Mr and Mrs S wanted to invest but with the security of capital protection.  They were 
aware this product  was the only capital  protected plan offered.
The product  was linked to the performance of the FTSE 100, so it was reliant on 100 
of the largest  companies in the UK Stock exchange.  This provided diversification.
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint letter says they were hoping for a good  return and did not 
want excessive risk. The product met these aims and objectives.
Mr and Mrs S retained their investments for the full term, so affordability and 
sustainability werent an issue.
Mr and Mrs S invested £32,000  into their OEICs  and got back just over £37,000. The 
fact the performance  may have fallen short of their expectations  doesnt  mean  the 
product was unsuitable. It questions whether they would have complained if theyd 
received better returns.
Mr and Mrs S had received an inheritance. They hadnt had access  to this money 
previously and while asset concentration may appear high, they wanted to take the 
risk of return  with this money, as long as their capital was secure.
Ref: DRN63372702The sales documentation  records Mr and Mrs S wanted  the potential  to earn more 
than savings accounts. This indicates  savings accounts were fully discussed  and 
decided against.
Mr and Mrs S had cleared all their debts  and confirmed they wanted to invest  their 
money as opposed to placing  in deposit accounts. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Lloyds response  to my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
I said in my provisional decision that I was satisfied the recommended  product itself was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  and needs. My issue was instead with the amount 
they were advised  to invest. I didnt think it was appropriate to recommend they invest so 
much of their inheritance, which also equated  to around three quarters of their overall 
capital, in a single product. Although the investment was dependent  on the performance of 
an index containing  100 company shares, the advice  still meant  all of the money they 
invested depended on the success or otherwise of exactly the same  investment strategy. I 
dont think this provided adequate diversification.
I understand what Lloyds  has said about  Mr and Mrs Ss desire for a better return than 
deposit accounts and the limited range of products available  to its adviser.  But having a 
limited range  of products  doesnt somehow justify giving bad advice. If the adviser couldnt 
make recommendations that met their objectives and also provided an appropriate level of 
diversification, he should have recommended they contact an independent  adviser with 
access to the entire market for help investing at least some of their money. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest that option was discussed.
It may well be that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have complained  if theyd received a better  return. 
But I dont think that diminishes their complaint in any way. In the same  way that 
disappointing performance doesnt mean an investment wasnt  suitable, good performance 
doesnt mean it was suitable either.  Its quite  likely  Mr and Mrs S only questioned the 
suitability of the advice because of their disappointment with the returns. But for the reasons  
Ive already explained, I think the doubts  theyve expressed are justified to some  extent.
putting things right
In terms of calculating  redress,  its difficult to know what  Mr and Mrs S would have done 
instead. But with appropriate advice, I still think £20,000 of the money they put in their 
OEICs would have been invested differently. 
Given their objectives and the range  of products  Lloyds had available, I think  what  Im 
suggesting is a reasonable basis for calculating compensation.  Im not saying they definitely  
would have invested in fixed-rate products, rather that this is a reasonable benchmark  for the 
sort of return they could  have got elsewhere  while achieving  their objectives.
To put things right, Lloyds  should  calculate whether compensation is due by comparing the 
performance of £20,000 of Mr and Mrs S actual investment into their OEIC with what they 
would have received from an alternative  investment returning 5% per year for the first three  
years and 4% per year for the remaining term. To compensate Mr and Mrs S for not having 
Ref: DRN63372703use of their money since their investment matured,  Lloyds  should also add simple  interest  at 
8% per year to any compensation amount from the date the OEIC matured to the date 
compensation is paid.  Income tax may be payable on the interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr and Mrs S accept  my decision,  Lloyds Bank  PLC must pay them  compensation 
calculated using the method set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63372704extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
Mr and Mrs S received advice and the adviser  had a responsibility to make sure any recommendation 
was suitable for their circumstances and needs.
Theres no dispute Mr and Mrs S were  looking  to invest and that they were  willing  to tie their money  
up for a long period.  The recommended investment was consistent with this aim and was also 
designed to protect the capital originally invested, something else documented as being  important to 
them. To this extent, Im satisfied an investment into the capital protected fund was a suitable  
recommendation.
But Im conscious the responsibility to provide  suitable advice went beyond simply identifying Mr and 
Mrs Ss attitude to risk and putting all of their money in a fund to match it. The adviser also had a 
responsibility to make  sure they ended up with an appropriately balanced and diversified portfolio. Its 
with this in mind that I dont think the advice to invest nearly three quarters of their money  in a single, 
long-term investment was suitable.
In defence of the sale, Lloyds accepted Mr and Mrs S invested a large part of their capital, but pointed 
out they had received an inheritance and wanted  to invest. While this may be correct, I dont  think it 
prevented the adviser  from recommending they spread their money between different  investments. If 
Lloyds didnt offer any other suitable investments that could have been used,  he could have 
recommended they invest some of their money with him and speak  to an independent  financial 
adviser about  what to do with the rest.
putting things  right
My aim is to put Mr and Mrs S as close to the position they would probably  now be in if they hadnt 
been given unsuitable  advice.  I think they would have invested differently. Its not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done, but I think it would have been reasonable to recommend they 
invest half the amount  they did, made up of £8,000 into ISAs and £12,000 into an OEIC.  With that in 
mind, Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
To compensate Mr and Mrs S fairly, I currently think Lloyds should  compare the performance of 
£20,000 of their initial  investment into the OEIC with what they would have achieved if the same 
amount had instead been  placed in the highest paying fixed-rate deposit account  with a term of five or 
six years,  using the rate of interest  on that account up to the date the investments in the capital 
protected fund matured.  I think this is a fair benchmark for assessing  the return they could have 
earned in other  medium to long-term, secure investments. If the comparison shows Mr and Mrs S 
would have achieved  more if theyd used an alternative investment paying this benchmark rate, 
Lloyds should pay the difference as compensation.  
To compensate Mr and Mrs S for not having use of their money,  Lloyds should  also add simple 
interest at 8% per year to the compensation amount from the date the ISAs and OEIC matured to the 
date compensation is paid. Income tax may be payable  on the interest.
Id be grateful if, in response to this provisional  decision,  Lloyds could provide details, including  the 
term and interest rate, of the highest paying fixed-rate deposit account  with a term of five or six years 
it was offering at the time Mr and Mrs S invested  in 2008. If it didnt offer an account  on these terms, it 
should provide details of all fixed-rate deposit accounts,  including terms and rates of interest,  it was 
offering at the time. This information will help me settle on a fair alternative means of calculating 
compensation.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to partly uphold  this complaint. I currently think  Lloyds Bank 
PLC should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation calculated using the method set out above.
Ref: DRN6337270