K822xcomplaint
Mr B runs a business, which Ill refer to as L. He complains that Barclays  Bank Plc 
(trading as Barclaycard)  misadvised L about  the validity of card payments it took in 
November 2017,  and that it has suffered significant  losses as a result.  
Mr B is represented in bringing this complaint by one of his employees, Mr D.
background 
L took payment for an order  on 21 November 2017.  A card payment was made  over the 
phone across three separate transactions: two of £5,000 each and a third of £2,960.  So a 
total of £12,960.
On 24 November, a third party came to collect the goods from L and they were  duly 
released.
A second order was placed shortly after, for the same total amount  of £12,960. Again L took 
payment by card over the phone across a further  three transactions before the goods were 
then collected  by a third party.
In January 2018, Barclaycard wrote  to L to advise that all six transactions had been  rejected 
by the cardholders card issuer (in a process  known as a chargeback). This was on the 
basis that the cardholder had said they didnt authorise or participate in the transactions.  
They were  subsequently deemed  to be fraudulent.
The chargebacks prompted Mr D to complain to Barclays. He said that L had only gone 
ahead with the transactions after seeking advice  and assurance from Barclays, which it had 
given in a number of separate phone conversations.
Barclays responded to Ls concerns  in April 2018. While it didnt think  it had given  L incorrect 
information over the phone, it accepted that its advice couldve been  more comprehensive. 
But it also thought  L ought to have been more  alert to the dangers in releasing the goods 
having taken payment  on a card not present (also referred to as cardholder not present) 
(CNP) basis. In light of that, Barclays offered to pay L £5,000.
Mr D then referred the matter to us. He said L was seeking a full reimbursement of the 
£25,920 it had lost  as if Barclays  had properly explained things when contacted,  the goods 
wouldnt have been released at all.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Bs complaint last month, setting out why I thought 
Barclays had already made a fair offer to put things right. I said:
All of the transactions in question within this complaint were processed on a card not 
present (CNP) basis. In other  words,  the cardholder and card werent present at the 
point of sale. This is common in online and telephone sales.  
Ref: DRN61889222With neither the cardholder or card being present, there is evidently a higher  degree of 
risk of the card being used fraudulently. The customer wont be providing their 
signature or entering  a PIN  methods commonly used to verify  a transaction as 
genuine. There are, though, several other  recognised  steps that a business  can take to 
obtain (or confirm) the authority of the cardholder. 
This is covered in some detail within Barclays Procedure Guide for accepting card 
payments. I understand that a guide  wouldve been  given  to Mr B when he first set up 
the account. Updated versions of the guide  would thereafter have been available  
online. Barclays says important updates such as these would be featured in a quarterly 
update to merchant customers,  like L. 
The most recent guide set out that:
There are higher risks involved  in CNP  transactions.
When accepting payments, a merchant  would need to get an authorisation and 
make a note of various information personal to the customer   including their 
full name  and address, their postcode and phone number  and the card security 
code (CSC).
An authorisation only confirms there are enough funds in the account and that 
the card hasnt been reported as lost or stolen at that time  it doesnt 
guarantee payment or that the person  paying is the genuine cardholder.
Goods shouldnt be given to anyone claiming to be collecting them on behalf of 
the cardholder  when dealing with a CNP  transaction. Rather, the cardholder  
should be allowed  to pick the goods  up  at which  time the CNP transaction  
should be cancelled  and a new Card Present  transaction  should be carried 
out.
In deciding to accept CNP transactions, I think it was up to L to ensure it understood 
the risks attached   and to take appropriate  steps to mitigate them. Based on the 
above, I think Barclays had done  all Id reasonably expect of it in giving L appropriate 
information ahead of the transactions on what  CNP  payments involved and how they 
should be handled.
L took the first three  payments, all on a CNP basis, on 21 November 2017. Each used 
the same  card details.  Barclays has said that while L completed  a CSC and address 
check on the first of the three transactions, it didnt  do any checks on the second  and 
only received a partial match  (on the address, but not the postcode)  on the third. So it 
doesnt seem to have  taken the appropriate  measures, as outlined above.
From what  Mr D has told us, I understand that L only contacted Barclays after hed 
taken these three payments (later the same day). He says he sought advice as to 
whether the amount had been received and whether the payment was valid  and 
that Barclays confirmed  both. Barclays hasnt been  able to locate a recording of that 
conversation but on the face of it, the information  Mr D said he was given wouldnt 
have been incorrect.  The money was duly paid from the card to Ls account, and the 
card hadnt  been  reported  as lost or stolen (at the time). So it doesnt  seem that 
Barclays misinformed or misadvised L here.
Ref: DRN61889223Mr D called Barclays again  on 22 November.  Barclays  has been  able to find a 
recording of that call. When Mr D was transferred through to an adviser, he said he 
wanted to know  if the funds  had been received into Ls account because  the person is 
coming to collect them  on Friday and Im reluctant  to let them  go because of the 
amount involved. The quantity of the order (and therefore the value of the transaction)  
was particularly unusual  for L. Its also notable that the transaction  was carried  out by 
way of three separate payments (rather than one payment for the full amount), given it 
was seemingly one order on one card being  processed at the same time.
Barclays advised that the three transactions had been successfully  processed  and that 
the funds would show as cleared a couple of days later. Mr D wanted to know whether 
there was any way the purchaser could withdraw the money,  seemingly anxious to 
ensure the funds were secure  in the account before releasing the goods. The adviser 
confirmed that the funds  had been  received.
Barclays says it didnt  give Mr D any incorrect information when he called on 22 
November. I agree. Mr D didnt specifically enquire  about how best to process a CNP 
transaction or about whether there were any steps  he needed to take. The adviser 
seems to have taken his enquiry at face value, in that he was asking whether the 
purchaser could  withdraw the funds from Ls account and correctly advised  that there 
wasnt (as while the payments were later charged back, I think this is quite  different 
from the purchaser withdrawing, cancelling or reversing the payments,  as Mr D 
seemed to have  been asking).
At the same time, I accept  that the adviser  couldve read between  the lines: it was 
evidently a CNP transaction  (as Mr D explained that the payment had been  taken  and 
the goods were  to be collected in the future)  and Mr D was clearly  concerned  about 
the prospect of the customer somehow recovering the payments once the goods were  
released. So I think ideally, the adviser  wouldve picked  up on the fact that riskier CNP  
transactions were  involved, and then directed Mr D to the guidance  on such 
transactions. It would  still ultimately have been up to L to decide on what steps were 
necessary, though. Ill come back to the impact of this shortcoming later.
After the call, a third party came to collect the goods from L on 24 November. This 
again is not in keeping  with the recognised good practice  on such transactions (which 
explicitly advises against having a third party pick up the goods). It seems Mr D 
remained particularly anxious as to the genuineness of the deal  he recalls taking 
photos of the driver and the vehicle, as well as enquiring where  the trees were being 
delivered. Nevertheless, the goods  were released.
A few days  later  on 29 November 2017  L processed a further order for the same  
customer in much the same way. Again the payment was split across  three  CNP  
transactions, albeit  using  a different card. And the goods were later collected by a third 
party (I understand,  though, that this wasnt the same person that collected  the first 
order). 
Mr D says he adopted a similar process in handling  these payments, in that after 
payment was made, he called Barclays to confirm that the funds had been received 
and couldnt be withdrawn. Theres no recording of a call on 29 November, but a call 
log shows it was made.  Again, I have no way of knowing exactly  what  was said.  But 
Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ds recollection.  Notably also the call only lasted 2 minutes  
and 42 seconds,  so it seems unlikely that much else wouldve been discussed  or 
Ref: DRN61889224that Barclays wouldve  been given cause to further  explain the CNP transaction  on the 
back of such a short interaction. So I dont  think theres enough for me to say that 
Barclays misadvised or misinformed  L during  this conversation.
Barclays also points out that on an initial attempt to take payment within this second 
set of transactions, L received a pick-up card response. Thats a message from the 
card issuing company  declining the payment  typically  because  the card has been  
reported as lost or stolen (but there  are other  reasons,  such as the card having  
expired). So I think this ought reasonably to have put L on notice  or rather, more  so 
than it apparently already was  that something  wasnt right.
Looking at everything therefore,  I think  its fair to say that Barclays  couldve done more  
to advise L during the telephone conversation of 22 November 2017. But Ive not found 
that it explicitly misinformed or misadvised L  or that it ought to have done more  on 
any other occasion. Ive therefore thought about how fairly  to compensate L for the 
shortcomings in Barclays service.
L is seeking full reimbursement of the transactions. But I dont think its fair to hold 
Barclays fully responsible for the losses L incurred  in failing to take appropriate  
measures to ensure  the authenticity of the CNP transactions.  L didnt follow  the 
recognised process  in taking the payments initially or in releasing  the goods  once the 
funds were cleared   despite its obvious concerns.  And while not as comprehensive  as 
might have been ideal, the information  given by Barclays wasnt actually incorrect  
and if L had particular concerns about  the transactions (as it seems to have done), it 
couldve asked more  specific questions  about  how best to safeguard itself and/or 
ensure the transaction  was genuine.  
In short,  Mr D didnt ask Barclays  for assurance  as to the authenticity of the 
transaction, which was apparently his concern  and Barclays  didnt give it. I dont  
think it was reasonable  for L to rely solely on the conversation of 22 November in 
deciding whether to proceed with the transactions, in light of all the other  warning signs 
and given the established practice for handling CNP payments. 
With this in mind, I think its fair for Barclays to accept some responsibility for what 
happened when  Mr D called in connection with the first set of transactions. And to that 
end, the £5,000 it originally offered (and which its now paid) seems to me a 
reasonable reflection of its level of responsibility.  So Im not intending  to direct it to do 
anything further.
I dont think theres any dispute as to the validity of the chargebacks themselves here.  
But for clarity, this will be provided for under the terms of Ls agreement with Barclays 
(as is commonplace). As the account  was opened in 2001, understandably  neither 
party has been  able to provide us with a copy of the original agreement. But conditions  
that were in force from August 2000   which I think would  be indicative of those  
applicable to Ls account  state that:
We will have the right not to pay you or to charge  back in the 
following circumstances: 
If the cardholder denies authorising a cardholder  not present 
payment.
Ref: DRN61889225Thats what  happened here. L was unable  to provide any evidence  to demonstrate that 
the cardholder  authorised  the transactions in question. So I think  it was reasonable for 
Barclays to charge the funds back to L on this basis, when it was called upon  to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  comments  or evidence 
for me to take into account. So having looked  over everything again, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. 
This final decision therefore confirms my provisional  findings, as set out above.
my final decision
Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) has already paid £5,000 to L in settlement of this 
complaint and I think thats fair compensation in the circumstances.  So I dont require it to do 
anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6188922