K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the premiums charged by Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited for their home insurance over a number of years and feel the policy  was unsuitable 
for their needs.
background
Mr and Mrs K bought their policy through Lloyds in 2001 and continued  to insure with it until 
2015. Over that time the premiums rose substantially from £481.90 for 2001/2 until 2014/15 
when it was £1,442.35. So far as Im aware, Mr and Mrs K had one claim in that time in 2005 
when the No Claims Discount (NCD) went down from 25% to 10% on both contents and 
buildings. It took until 2009 for the NCD to go back up to 35%. 
In 2011 Mr and Mrs K spoke to an adviser  at their local branch, as they were concerned 
about the price  of their insurance. That adviser  arranged for the price to go down by 7% after 
Lloyds applied a loyalty discount. However the price then rose over the next three years, by 
14% then 20% and then a further 20%.  Mr and Mrs K then found a policy  that was cheaper  
elsewhere for the 2015/16 renewal. They complained to Lloyds,  who reviewed it and said 
they should have been advised in 2011 about  their need for Accidental Damage (AD) cover. 
As a result it agreed to remove that cover from 2011  and refund the premiums of £1,981.62 
and pay interest at 8%. It also paid them £100 compensation.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that Lloyds should have recognised that 
Mr and Mrs K were  failing  to engage  with it (at least  until 2011). However he thought  that the 
refund given was more  than we would have considered  appropriate to award  so he didnt 
propose that Lloyds  make  any further  award.
Mr and Mrs K were  unhappy with this and asked for an ombudsmans  decision, and the 
matter has been  passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
policy premiums
The price  of Mr and Mrs Ks policy rose a lot over the years  and its clear  that until 2011 they 
didnt query  the price  of it with Lloyds. In general, I want  to see that where a policy premium 
is increased from year to year that the policyholder  is able to query  it and that they arent  
treated unfairly  because  they may not have  access to all the information  needed to make a 
decision about renewal. In this case I note that Mr and Mrs K went  to their bank and queried 
the price of the policy in 2011.  So at least  from then they would have been aware about the 
price and that they could have shopped  around  if they had wanted to. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs K feel they were overcharged but its difficult  to assess the 
price of the Lloyds policy against the new one theyve obtained, particularly as it offers 
different levels  of cover and is likely  to include an introductory  discount. I havent seen any 
evidence that Lloyds had a cheaper  policy available up until 2015 and it is entitled to set its 
premiums according to its own pricing structure and assessment of risk.
Ref: DRN66137852Nevertheless I take into account  that from 2001  to 2011 Mr and Mrs K didnt query  the price 
they were paying  and Lloyds should  have taken  this into account. Lloyds should also have 
discussed their need for accidental damage  cover in 2011.  But as there  are no records of the 
sale in 2001, its not possible for me to reach  any conclusion about  the advice given to them 
about the policy in 2001. Its also not possible to say what  price might have been  available 
for other policies up until 2011, but I note that Mr and Mrs K opted to stay with the Lloyds 
policy then. I take into account the amount of the refund of premiums  they have had. If I had 
thought it appropriate to make an award  it wouldnt have been  as much as the award given 
to them  by Lloyds.  So I dont propose to ask Lloyds to pay any more.
suitability
Mr and Mrs K have  pointed out that they didnt  need unlimited cover for their buildings  and 
contents and didnt need AD cover.
As our adjudicator has explained,  the policyholder  doesnt pay substantially more for 
unlimited cover. Rather the level of premium is set according to the type, location and age of 
the property. This type of cover  removes  any danger  that the property might be underinsured 
which could mean  a substantially reduced pay-out in the event of a claim.
As for AD, as Ive said theres no evidence as to what might have been discussed about  this 
with Mr and Mrs K in 2001,  so I cant say that they were sold an unsuitable policy then. I 
wouldnt expect Lloyds  to necessarily have kept  records that far back.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6613785