K821x#15Complaint
Mr S says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
Mr S approached Drafty  for a running credit  facility in October 2016. This was a running 
credit account where a consumer could either request funds up to their agreed  credit limit in 
one go or take multiple drawdowns  up to their limit. Drafty  agreed  Mr Ss facility with a credit 
limit of £700.  
The last correspondence  from Drafty  shows Mr Ss account was subject to a payment 
arrangement and there is an outstanding  balance due of around £627.83.
In our adjudicators latest findings,  she thought the checks Drafty carried out before granting 
this facility were proportionate. And that the information Drafty gathered  about  Mr Ss 
circumstances suggested he would be able to afford the repayments  he was committed to 
making.
But our adjudicator felt that Drafty  ought to have stopped all interest being applied to the 
account when  the lender became aware Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties on 
8 November 2017.
Mr S appears to have  agreed with our adjudicators  recommendation. Drafty didnt respond 
so I dont know what it thinks about the outcome that has been reached.  
As no agreement was reached, the case has now been passed  to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the facility  was provided.
When the facility  was approved, Drafty  needed  to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer would be able to repay  what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner without 
it adversely impacting on their financial situation.  Put simply, Drafty had to gather  enough  
information so that it could  make  an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
To be clear, Mr S wasnt given a payday loan where  he had to repay all of what he borrowed  
plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a period of at least 
12 months. So overall, I think that this means the checks Drafty carried  out had to provide 
enough information for it to be able to understand whether  Mr S would likely be able to 
service and then repay this facility within a reasonable  period  of time.
To begin with, Mr S seems to accept  our adjudicators opinion  that Drafty wasnt wrong to
Ref: DRN65518272approve his running  credit  facility. But for the avoidance of any doubt, I also dont think 
Drafty was wrong to have initially granted his facility. The checks Drafty completed  seemed 
proportionate to the borrowing Mr S was applying for. 
Before granting the facility, Drafty  asked Mr S about  his monthly  income and expenditure. 
Mr S confirmed his monthly income  was £1,400 and his monthly  expenditure was £225. 
Drafty also completed a credit check.  Based on the information that Drafty gathered,  it 
seemed that Mr S would be able to afford the repayments he was committed  to making.  So, 
taking into account  the individual circumstances  of this case, I dont think Drafty needed to 
do more before this facility was granted.
Ive also considered how Mr S ran his facility. Drafty had a duty to monitor  Mr Ss facility for 
signs that he may have  been struggling  financially. It seems  Mr S was making his 
repayments in accordance  with his repayment  schedule. Whilst it seems he ran into a bit of 
difficulty making his repayment in March 2017, Drafty agreed a payment holiday for one 
month in order for Mr S to get himself back on his feet. And this seemed to be a reasonable  
of course of action to take, because Mr S was then able to get back  on track with making his 
repayments. 
But like the adjudicator, I think Drafty shouldve stopped applying interest from 8 November 
2017. By this point  Mr S had already missed a few payments and so his account  was in 
arrears and he then proceed to tell Drafty  he was experiencing  ongoing  financial issues.  He 
also explained that he was going to seek guidance from the Citizens  Advice Bureau (CAB). 
Drafty informed Mr S it would  cancel  his Continuous Payment Arrangement (CPA) and 
would wait for Mr S to seek further help. But I can see Drafty also informed Mr S that interest 
would accrue until a suitable payment plan was put in place. Around three weeks later,  Mr S 
emailed Drafty to inform  it that he had received a letter explaining that his account had been 
terminated. Drafty informed Mr S that this was because it had not received any payments 
since August 2017, and that the account  could soon  go to a debt collection agency.  A 
payment arrangement was then agreed, for Mr S to pay £10 per week.  
CONC 7.3.4 of the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook says A firm must  treat customers in default 
or in arrears  difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.
And CONC 7.3.5 explains  that examples of treating a customer  with forbearance would 
include the firm doing one or more  of the following,  as may be relevant in the circumstances
1.considering suspending,  reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest  or 
charges (for example,  when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make token 
repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if interest 
and charges continue to be applied);
2.allowing deferment  of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's 
repayments to an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments 
unreasonably excessive;
Ref: DRN655182733.accepting token  payments for a reasonable period of time in order  to allow  a 
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer  who 
demonstrates that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean  not being able 
to meet  the customer's priority  debts or other  essential living  expenses (such  as in 
relation to a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).
Im satisfied Drafty did try and help Mr S by stopping his CPA and giving him time to seek  
guidance from the CAB. But given the significant  arrears that already existed on Mr Ss 
account, I think Drafty were already aware that it was likely Mr S was experiencing longer  
term financial difficulty by 8 November  2017.   It seems that Mr S was proactive in trying to 
manage his finances  and he seemed keen  to make an arrangement with Drafty  to repay 
what he owed. 
In the circumstances of this case,  I think it would have been reasonable for Drafty to have 
suspended his facility on 8 November  2017 to allow him time to go to the CAB,  but also 
suspend any interest  from being applied to his account whilst he sought advice. But I can 
see Drafty continued to apply interest  to Mr Ss account, which  wasnt, in my view, treating  
him fairly.
As a result, I think Drafty were wrong to continuing applying interest to Mr Ss facility  from 
8 November 2017 onwards. 
putting things right  what I think  Drafty needs  to do
refund  all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Ss facility  from 8 November 2017.
treat all payments  Mr S has made  towards  his account since 8 November 2017 as 
though they had been repayments towards  the outstanding balance  on that date.
If at any point Mr S would have been  in credit on his account after considering the 
above, you will need to refund  any overpayments  with 8% simple interest* calculated  
on these payments, from the date they would  have  arisen, to the date the refund is 
made.
If a balance still remains  after this then Drafty  should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr S. But Id remind  Drafty of its obligation to treat Mr S fairly. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN65518274My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Mr S as set out above
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6551827