K821x#15complaint
Miss Y has complained  about  the settlement she received from Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) further to her travel insurance claim for a cancelled holiday. 
All references to IPA include its agents.  
background
Miss Y was due to travel  abroad with family. She said she booked  and paid for 
accommodation for six family members (seven people  in total) herself  as a gift to them  as 
she would  be celebrating her birthday over the period of the holiday. 
One of her family members fell seriously ill before the holiday and had to spend months in 
hospital. As a result, the holiday was cancelled. 
Miss Y was able to recover around  half of the holiday cost from the booking  agent. So she 
made a claim for the rest on her travel insurance  with IPA. 
IPA accepted the claim but only paid Miss Y one seventh of the accommodation costs which 
it said was her proportion  of the costs. This came  to £1.28 after the excess  was deducted. 
IPA said the rest of her family would have to claim under their own policies. 
Miss Y wasnt happy with this. She said she paid for the entire cost herself and her family 
wouldnt have valid claims on their policies  because they suffered no loss. 
IPA didnt change  its view so Miss Y complained  to us. Our investigator agreed with Miss Y 
and thought IPA should  pay the rest of the accommodation costs.  
IPA didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. It said Miss Y was only able to 
claim for her share of the cost under the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
The policy includes  cover for holiday cancellation.  It says:
We will pay you up to £2,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable  unused travel and 
accommodation costs  (including excursions up to £250)  and other pre-paid charges which 
you have paid or are contracted  to pay, together with your proportion  only of any reasonable 
additional travel  expenses
It defines you and your as:
means each person travelling on a trip or one-way trip whose name  appears  in the policy  
schedule
IPA doesnt dispute that Miss Y paid £822 towards  the accommodation and that she was 
refunded £463  by the booking agent.  So what I need to consider is whether IPA should 
refund Miss Y the outstanding £359 in full.
Ref: DRN62600502Miss Y has provided her card statement to show that she paid the £822 in February 2017. 
She has also provided bank statements from November 2016 to May 2017. From what Ive 
seen, there  doesnt  seem  to be any reimbursement of the accommodation  costs  from any 
family members into her bank  account.  So, on balance, I think  this is an expense  Miss Y 
incurred herself and which she wasnt reimbursed for by her family. 
The policy says IPA will only pay the insureds  proportion  of the unrecovered 
accommodation costs.  In this case the insured was only Miss Y as she is the only person 
named on the policy schedule.  
IPA divided the outstanding costs  by the number  of people the accommodation was booked  
for i.e. seven. So it paid Miss Y one seventh of the outstanding costs.  But I dont think  this 
was fair and reasonable in these  particular circumstances.  Miss Y has shown that she paid 
for the accommodation  in full and received no reimbursement from her family.  So I think her 
share or proportion of the costs is 100% as opposed to the rest of her family whose 
proportion was 0%. So in these specific circumstances  I think  IPA should  pay Miss Y back 
the full amount she has claimed for and not one seventh. 
Miss Y said she had to pay £50 to get a medical report  in support of her cancellation  claim 
and she wanted  IPA to refund this to her. But the policy says, among other things, that Miss 
Y has to get this evidence at her own expense. So I wont  ask IPA to reimburse  this cost. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding this complaint  in part and asking Inter Partner  
Assistance SA to pay Miss Y £359  for her irrecoverable unused  accommodation costs less 
the £50 excess  which applies  under  the cancellation  section of the policy. It must add 8% 
simple interest per year to the amount it pays from the date of the claim to the date it pays  
it*.
It must make the above payment within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Miss Y 
accepts my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
* If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss Y how much its taken off. It should also give Miss Y a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6260050