K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001. Mr F 
says Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold him the PPI. Mr F 
paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which  didnt attract interest. It covered  his 
mortgage payments  in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr F, I dont think this policy  was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The sale was nearly two decades ago, so understandably  neither side have the original 
documents from the time.  Mr F doesnt remember buying PPI, which I also think  is 
understandable given  just how long ago it was, and since buying insurance  is not often 
memorable. 
Santander has been able to give us sample  copies of the documents Mr F wouldve seen at 
the time of his sale. From those, it looks like it wouldve been made clear that the PPI was a 
separate product to his mortgage and that he didnt have to take it out. In order  to get the 
policy, it looks like Mr F wouldve specifically applied for it, separately to applying for a 
mortgage; and its cost wouldve been set out separately to the mortgages  cost, rather  than 
as something that was necessarily included. And in this case, Mr F had already  had his 
mortgage since 1995 without PPI, so he wouldve known he didnt have  to take out the policy 
to get approved for his mortgage. So taking everything together,  I think  its most likely that 
Santander made it clear  Mr F didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it at the 
time  though  I can understand  why he might not remember this after so long.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr F, so it had to check  that the policy  was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. While Mr F had 
some sick pay through work, the PPI covered him for much longer and paid out on top of his 
work benefits. And he doesnt seem  to have had any other cover in case he lost his job, 
aside from very limited savings. Its worth  bearing in mind  that if Mr F fell behind  on his 
mortgage payments,  he couldve lost his home.  So I think the PPI couldve  really been useful 
for him in protecting his home  and giving some peace of mind.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. But as I said above, it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and it would have  been useful for Mr F if something  went  
wrong. And the policy was a standalone product paid on a rolling monthly basis. That means 
that if Mr Fs circumstances changed or he changed  his mind, he could  cancel the PPI at any 
time without  a penalty. And it meant that even  when he changed mortgage, the policy  still 
covered him. So overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put 
Mr F off taking  it out. 
Ref: DRN60093582Ive also thought about the commission Mr F paid on his policy  and whether Santander 
treated him unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr Fs policy  was less than half of what  he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Fs commission  was less than half the 
cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont  think  it needed  to tell him about  the commission 
 so I dont think  Santander treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr F 
back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6009358