K821x#15Complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank  plc (TSB)  wont refund £7,000  she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
Background
On 17 February 2018 Mrs M, received a call from a telecommunications provider, of 
whom she was a customer.  The caller  asked for her bank  details.  Mrs M eventually hung  
up. 
Shortly afterwards Mrs M received a call from someone who claimed to be calling from TSB.
Mrs M was told there had been an attempt to transfer £2,000  out of her account so she 
should transfer her funds  to a safe account.  
Mrs M transferred almost  all the funds (£6,300) from her TSB savings account  to her TSB 
current account and then she was told to transfer £7,000 from her current account  to the 
scammers account. The caller talked her into making an additional payment that would 
have put her into her overdraft if the banks systems had not declined  it. She completed 
the transactions online herself, but the caller talked her through what  to do.
Mrs M became suspicious shortly after the call took place and called TSB on its genuine 
number, which is when  she realised  she had been  scammed.
TSB attempted  to recover Mrs Ms funds but was unable to do so. Subsequently TSB didnt 
agree to refund Mrs M the transaction that left her account. It said Mrs M authorised  the 
transaction herself and there wasnt  anything  to suggest they were suspicious at the time.  
TSB did compensate  Mrs M £25 for distress  and inconvenience and £2 for call costs.
Mrs M was unhappy with TSBs response  and the service provided  by TSB, so she bought 
the complaint  to our service. 
The investigator who considered Mrs Ms complaint upheld it and asked TSB to pay Mrs M
£7,000 plus interest  and £250 for the distress  and inconvenience shed suffered. He 
accepted Mrs M had authorised the transactions.  But after considering  TSBs  duties,  the 
investigator concluded it should  have  had concerns that Mrs M was at risk of financial harm  
and contacted Mrs M to verify the transaction before  it left her account.  This was because, 
the amount lost stood out as unusual when compared to be Mrs Ms previous account 
activity.  And it almost wiped  out the balance of her savings account. 
Mrs M accepted the investigators findings,  but TSB didnt. It said it is normal behaviour for 
its customers to transfer money  from savings  or from another source into a current account 
to make a purchase or transfer out in the subsequent days. Mrs Ms payment out was 
therefore normal behaviour when compared  to the rest of its customer  base. There was 
evidence of faster payments in the months prior and whilst not to the value Mrs M sent as a 
result of the fraud, it shows she was familiar with setting up payments  to new payees  and it 
wasnt unusual for her to send faster payments.  It considers  it has met the industry  
standards expected of it.
Ref: DRN67828682TSB asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  so the complaint has been passed  to me to 
consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  to uphold 
this complaint.
It is not in dispute  that Mrs M authorised the payment of £7,000. She was duped by 
scammers into transferring her funds into their fake safe account. They deceived her over 
the phone  into thinking that large  fraudulent transactions had been  attempted on her 
account. 
I therefore accept  that this was an authorised payment even through  Mrs M was the victim  
of a sophisticated scam. She logged into her online banking using her security  credentials to
request the payment. So, although she did not intend the money to go to the fraudsters, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017,  and the terms and conditions of her account, 
Mrs M is presumed  liable  for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel  used, have  taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  
from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
Im satisfied the evidence  indicates that TSB shouldve done  more to protect Mrs M when  
she was making the payment and that there were indicators that Mrs M was potentially 
falling victim to a scam  meaning TSB missed  an opportunity to step in and question  the 
payment before it left Mrs Ms account. Ill explain why.
Most of the previous  activity on Mrs Ms current account in the 12-month period before the 
scam related to standing orders, direct debits, debits  and some cash  withdrawals.
TSB said that there  was evidence of faster payments in the months prior and it wasnt  
unusual for Mrs M to use this payment method. It also said Mrs M had experience  of setting 
up new payees. From what I can see, Mrs M made very few faster  payments to new payees 
out of her account.  But that is not what the case is turning on here. 
What was unusual  here was Mrs M had previously not made such  a large  single payment to 
a new payee by faster payment. There was one payment of £870  from her current  account  
Ref: DRN67828683in the months  prior.  I think it is also relevant  that money was moved from Mrs Ms savings 
account via her current account  and out to the scammers account within  the space of 
around 10 minutes.
Not only was the transfer of funds extremely quick, but following the transfers,  the balance 
in her savings account was reduced  to £42.64 and Mrs Ms current  account  balance 
reduced to £651.04   unusually low for her. In the months prior her current account balance 
doesnt drop below £1,000 and is usually around  £2,000 to £3,000.  And in fact, if the banks 
systems hadnt stopped the additional  £1,450 going  out  the transfers would have cleared 
her account  and left her in overdraft. So there was an attempt  to clear her account.
Safe account scams have very particular characteristics, customers  will often quickly
consolidate all of their funds into one account and then quickly  transfer the total balance 
out, to a new payee, reducing their account balances to zero or almost  zero (although Mrs 
M was left with £651.04  there  was an attempt to clear her account with the unsuccessful 
second payment).  They do so in the belief that fraudsters have access to their accounts,  
and they need to remove all of their money,  as quickly as possible, in order to safeguard it. 
The activity  that took place on Mrs Ms account  had all the hallmarks of a classic safe 
account scam and is exactly the type of suspicious account activity that TSB should  be on 
the look-out for.
So, I do think the nature of the transactions that Mrs M was requesting were unusual  and 
out of character compared  to her usual account activity. I therefore  think  TSB ought  fairly 
and reasonably to have  made enquiries  about the purpose of the payment before it 
processed it.
TSB has commented that it has an obligation  to debit its customers accounts  in line with its 
customers mandate and by allowing  the payment to leave the account here, it was simply 
following Mrs Ms payment instruction. I accept there is a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. And it doesnt automatically  follow that TSB is liable for a loss, just 
because a customer is a victim of fraud. But in this case, I think it should have done more  to 
protect Mrs M.
I appreciate in this case TSBs fraud detection  system didnt  identify this payment as having 
high risk characteristics.  But isnt to say that any activity not picked  up on means  a business 
doesnt need to do anything more.  Its important to consider what wouldve been visible to 
TSB in terms of what it knew about how Mrs M uses her account.
And, for all the reasons  Ive explained, I think TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have 
identified that Mrs M was potentially at risk of financial harm. Im persuaded that as a matter 
of good practice,  TSB should have  made  additional checks, and made  enquiries  as to the 
purpose of the payment before processing  it. Had it done so, I believe the scam would have 
been revealed and prevented. Ill explain why.
Mrs M fell victim  to a scam which is sadly all too common  a safe account  scam. And its a 
type of scam Im satisfied TSB ought  to have  been aware of at the time. And so, Ive thought
about what most likely  wouldve happened  had TSB contacted Mrs M about the payment.
Im satisfied Mrs M wouldve  told TSB she was transferring her money to a safe account  
upon the instructions of the TSB fraud department. At this point, TSB couldve educated 
Mrs M about  this type of scam and its key characteristics. It wouldve  been able to tell Mrs 
Ref: DRN67828684M that the person  she had been speaking to did not work for TSB,  and that TSB would not 
ask one of its customers  to transfer their money  to a safe account. Had TSB done so, Im 
persuaded that the scam would have been  prevented and no loss occurred.
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if TSB had asked some probing 
questions are reinforced by the fact that Mrs M realised herself that something wasnt  quite 
right about  an hour after the scam.  She says she questioned the validity  of the payment 
after the transfer, but by the time she contacted the bank it was too late  the funds had 
already left and were  almost immediately removed from the receiving  account  by the 
scammers (which meant TSB could not recover any of Mrs Ms funds). In other words, if 
the staff had carried out further or better  questioning in line with a banks duty of care,  it 
seems probable that Mrs M would have become aware of the scam in time and stopped 
the payment in its tracks.  The fraud would have failed; and Mrs M would not have lost 
£7,000.
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from 
the payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it would have  made  no difference  because the receiving 
banks records show that the scammers  withdrew  all the money within  half an hour of the 
transfer, i.e. before TSB had become  aware of Mrs Ms concerns.
I have also considered whether Mrs M should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising  
the payment,  she was still totally in the dark and simply  did not appreciate  what  she was 
doing or the consequences of her actions. Mrs M questioned the caller  to establish who he 
was and when  he was able to tell her the last five transactions on her account, so she 
accepted he was from TSB. She thought she was helping to stop financial crime, not 
facilitate it. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, she was 
simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever  fraudster.  The bank was the 
professional in financial matters; Mrs M was a layperson.
TSB has highlighted  that there were warnings both on its website and on its online banking 
about this type of scam and that Mrs M failed to take heed of these  warnings.  Its provided 
us with links to the warnings it says were visible at the time. Even if there were warnings in 
place at the time, its clear they had no impact on Mrs M and this scam  Mrs M still fell 
victim to it. She genuinely  thought she was dealing with staff from TSB and logged  on to 
move money very quickly and under pressure. I think its likely that her focus would have 
been solely on that activity.
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mrs M for 
the loss she suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate her for 
being deprived of the money  she lost. I am satisfied  that had the fraudster  not taken the 
money from Mrs M it would have remained in her savings  account and current account so 
interest should be at the originating account  rates.
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest  award  of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs M has suffered. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that her loss 
was ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster and it was an authorised transaction, 
but TSB could ultimately have prevented the payments.
Mrs M has explained she was highly distressed over the loss of her life savings. She was 
told someone from TSB would call her back on more  than one occasion.  She took two 
Ref: DRN67828685days off work to make herself available for the calls.  And so, Im persuaded some of the 
emotional impact and stress she has felt since the scam  couldve  been  avoided. For these 
reasons, I think TSB should pay Mrs M £250 in addition to the £27 it has already  paid.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about TSB Bank  plc  and I therefore  require the bank to:
-refund  Mrs M the £7,000 lost as part of the scam,
-pay interest at the relevant account  rates from 17 February  2018  to 
the date of settlement*;
-pay Mrs M £250 for the material distress and inconvenience she experienced.
*If TSB Bank plc deducts tax from the interest  element of this award, it should provide Mrs M 
with the appropriate tax certificate so she might  submit  a claim to HMRC if applicable
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
Kathryn Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6782868