K821x#15complaint
Mr O is unhappy that MCE Insurance Company Limited declined  a claim on his motorcycle  
insurance policy. 
background
Mr Os motor cycle  was stolen And hes unhappy  that MCE has refused to accept his claim 
because the steering lock wasnt engaged  at the time. 
MCE said in its final response  that it had highlighted the importance of engaging the steering  
lock and explained why in the documents issued to Mr O. Engaging the steering lock made 
the motorcycle less desirable to a thief and meant  it would only move  in circles. Breaking  the 
steering lock will also damage the motor cycle and reduce  its value to a thief. The policy 
made clear the steering  wheel  lock must  be engaged when the motorcycle is unattended.  
And by not activating it Mr O hadnt acted in compliance with the policy  terms.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Mr Os policy and key facts document  say the policy doesnt cover loss or damage 
from theft where the motorcycle  is unattended and the steering lock has not been 
activated. And Mr O must  at all times  take reasonable steps to safeguard his 
motorcycle including by activating  the steering lock.
What she must decide is whether the exclusion has been applied fairly.  It is 
unreasonable for an insurer  to reject a claim unless  the circumstances are connected  
to the breach. 
MCE has provided detailed research and information about motor  cycle thefts in 
general. But it hasnt  shown that the steering lock not being engaged  was material  to 
the theft of Mr Os motorcycle. His motorcycle mayve been stolen because the lock 
wasnt engaged.  But it couldve  also been stolen by another  method like wheeling  it 
away on its back wheel or being lifted onto another vehicle.  Not activating the 
steering lock may not have been  material to the theft. And the onus is on MCE to 
show it can rely on the exclusion,  not for Mr O to prove  otherwise.
So MCE should pay Mr Os claim less any excess  plus interest from the date of the 
claim until settlement. He should also be paid £100  compensation for the 
inconvenience hes been caused.
MCE doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. It says the steering lock being 
engaged is instantly apparent to any opportunist thief because the handlebars are turned to 
the side. If the lock has to be broken  the motorcycle is damaged and usually  written  off 
making it less attractive or usable to thieves. Engaging the steering lock is an express term 
of the contract  which hasnt been  met by Mr O.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63298332It isnt disputed that Mr Os motorcycle was left unattended and the steering lock wasnt  
engaged as is specifically required for cover to be provided under his policy. But in order for 
MCE to fairly rely on the exclusion set out in Mr Os policy it must show that the failure to 
engage the steering lock was material to the theft of his motor  cycle. But in this case  I dont 
think on balance that it has done so.
MCE has said research shows that engaging  a steering lock is a generally a deterrent to a 
thief. Its immediately  apparent the lock is engaged as the handlebars are turned to one side 
and to get past it the motorcycle will be damaged and possibly written off.
That may well be the case. But the simple fact is even if steering lock had been engaged  the 
motorcycle could still have been  stolen by other means. For example it couldve been  
wheeled away on its rear wheel or lifted bodily onto another vehicle. In the case  of Mr Os 
motorcycle its possible not engaging the steering  lock led to the theft but its also equally 
likely that it didnt and another method was used to steal  it. And in that case  the failure to 
engage the steering lock wasnt material to the theft. 
Mr O also says he applied a disc lock to the motorcycle and that is just as effective  as a 
steering lock. I think he took reasonable steps to safeguard his motorcycle. And there wasnt  
apparently any debris at the scene which may suggest the lock was taken with the 
motorcycle.
Overall I dont think MCE has provided  persuasive  evidence to show on balance that the 
breach of the policy condition  not engaging  the steering lock  was material  to the 
circumstances of Mr Os claim. And Im therefore not persuaded it would  be fair for MCE to 
rely on this exclusion  to decline Mr Os claim.
Overall I think  the adjudicators proposed  resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right MCE Insurance Company  Limited  should:
1.Pay Mr Os claim subject to any policy excesses and limits and pay simple  interest* 
at 8% a year on any sums it pays him from the date of the loss until settlement; and 
2.Pay Mr O £100 compensation for the inconvenience hes been caused.
* If MCE  has to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much  its taken 
off and give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6329833