K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2003. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. To keep things  simple in my decision, Ill just say FICL when Im referring  to the PPI 
seller or to FICL.
Ms H is unhappy that PPI was added to her store card in May 2003.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Ms H disagreed with these findings. She has confirmed that not long after the sale,  she 
returned to live with her parents, and was not paying rent. Ms H says that with her 
circumstances at the time, taking into account her savings and employee benefits, she would 
not have found it difficult  to meet  her card repayments. She has also highlighted that the 
card balance was never high.
Ms H says that she took out the card to benefit  from a 10% discount on purchases,  but that 
this was cancelled  out by the cost of PPI. Ms H has stated that if she had needed PPI (which 
she doesnt consider  she did), she would have shopped around for a competitive product. 
She has also noted that on the card application form, a cross  has been added  where she 
needed to sign her name for PPI. Ms H says that this is because  the completion of the form 
was rushed, she was told to sign in the PPI section without explanation, and she was not 
asked about her financial circumstances.
Had she been given  full information about PPI, Ms H states that she would not have taken it 
out. She has also commented  that she did not take out PPI when she took out a loan for a 
car around  the same time. Ms H considers that it would not make sense to decline  PPI for 
the loan, which was much higher than the credit on her card,  but take out PPI on the card. 
Ms H has also highlighted that she did not take out PPI some years  later when she opened 
another store card. Her view is that she did not need  PPI protection on her card taken out in 
2003 because  the amount of credit  under  the card was low.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Hs case.
Ms H has given her recollections about how the PPI was sold to her when she took out the 
store card. Clearly I cant be certain about  what exactly  was discussed when the policy  was 
sold in store. I must  therefore reach a conclusion on this matter  based on the weight of 
evidence provided.  In addition I am mindful  that the sale took place over 15 years ago, in my 
view making it more  difficult to recall in detail.
Ms H has highlighted  that in the PPI section of the card application, there  is a cross marked 
next to where  she signed her name. I also note Ms Hs comments that the completion of the 
form was rushed. The PPI section  confirmed that the applicant wanted to take out the policy. I 
have thought carefully about Ms Hs description  of the sale. However, it seems to me that 
when Ms H signed the PPI section that requested  the policy be taken out, it is more likely than 
Ref: DRN68822372not that this would have  resulted from the store assistant giving Ms H some sort of description  
of what the policy provided.
There were other options on the application form that were not selected. Overall, based  on the 
content of the store  card application, in my view it is more likely than not that PPI was 
presented to Ms H as an optional product, and that she chose to take it out.
From my knowledge about  the way in which these policies were  sold, my view is that FICL 
didnt recommend the PPI to Ms H. Consequently,  it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. However, it did need to give Ms H clear, fair and not misleading information about  the 
policy so that she could make an informed choice  about it.
I cant be sure whether FICL gave Ms H sufficient  information about  the PPI to make an 
informed choice about it. Ms H has confirmed some of her personal  and financial 
circumstances when  sold the PPI. She has also highlighted that the store  card account  
never had a high balance  on it. However,  I need  to consider whether, with clear information, 
Ms H is still likely to have  chosen to take out PPI at the time that she opened the store  card.
Although I appreciate Ms H was entitled  to employee benefits when sold the policy,  and that 
she has stated she also had some  savings, my view is that based on her circumstances, it 
looks like the policy could  have been useful to her if she wasnt  working  due to disability  or 
unemployment. She also doesnt  appear  to have  been affected by any of the main  things  the 
policy didnt cover. I acknowledge Ms Hs comments that she primarily took out the card to 
benefit from discounts on purchases  she made. But on balance, my view is that better  
information would not have led to Ms H deciding not to take out the policy. 
I appreciate that Ms H is likely  to be disappointed with my findings. However my conclusion  
is that the policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6882237