K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that their mortgagee Preferred Mortgages  Limited  hasnt treated 
them fairly whilst they have been experiencing financial difficulties. They  say it has applied  
undue pressure, has fabricated  arrears  which dont exist, and has bullied them  by sending 
numerous letters and making threatening phone calls about the arrears which have affected 
their health.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr and Mrs Cs complaint be upheld. She said theyd 
been in arrears for some time. PML agreed  several reduced payment plans with them  and 
the adjudicator  considered it had shown  them  forbearance. Arrears had been  on the account 
since September 2012 and this situation had continued to the present time. The adjudicator 
had reviewed the contact  notes, but hadnt seen any evidence PML had treated 
Mr and Mrs C unfairly.  She was unable to agree  it had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for their complaint  to be reviewed. They said the 
tactics PML used were bullying in the extreme. Many phone  calls were unnecessary and 
resulted in their suffering  from depression and anxiety. PML should be penalised for the 
treatment they had endured.
They were  also concerned about  the cost of home  insurance with PML which was in excess  
of £500 per annum. When they took the mortgage they were told they had to take out 
insurance with PML but after quite  a few years  they found out that they didnt and now have 
contents and building  insurance for just £190  per annum.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues  Im able to deal with are those set out in Mr and Mrs Cs telephone complaint on 
17 September and their complaint form dated  13 November. The issue about the cost of 
home insurance was considered by the adjudicator who said this would have to be taken up 
with PML in the first instance. If they wish to pursue that complaint, Mr and Mrs C will need 
to address it initially to PML and then make a new complaint to this service if theyre not 
happy with PMLs response.
Mr and Mrs C havent given any description or details of the bullying and threats so Ive 
reviewed PMLs file notes and documents. 
I can see that there were  payment arrangements in force  and also instances where 
Mr and Mrs C advised they would be paying less than the due amount, and PML had warned 
them of the consequences, such as a risk of fees being incurred and a payment 
arrangement failing. The court had made a possession order in 2006, and there is mention 
of enforcement as a possible consequence. However clearly several years had elapsed  
without this being done. I cant  see any evidence  of bullying tactics. Nor have I seen  any 
objectionable correspondence from PML.
Ref: DRN68359872Ive also looked  at the statements on the account. Mr and Mrs C havent identified  any 
entries on the statements which they claim  to be false, and I havent been able to verify any 
fabrication by going through  the statements.
For these reasons Im not persuaded that PML should be penalised for treating 
Mr and Mrs C unfairly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6835987