K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains on behalf  of Mr F. Mrs C is unhappy with the increase in premiums on Mr 
Fs home insurance held with St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews).  
background
Mrs C feels that St Andrews took advantage  of Mr F, who was in his 90s and was a loyal 
customer, by overcharging him over many years. Mrs C doesnt think that Mr F wouldve 
contacted St Andrews  to query  the increases. And he didnt have internet access,  so 
couldnt easily shop  around. 
Mr Fs insurance  policy with St Andrews started  in 2010. It initially  cost £247.63 for the year.  
By 2012, Mr Fs insurance cost £305.96. In 2013, the original  policy was cancelled  and a 
new one taken out costing £176.82  for the year. The premium then increased each year until 
2019, when the premium  quoted at renewal was £633.10. 
Before renewal in 2019,  having  been given power  of attorney over Mr Fs financial affairs, 
Mrs C became aware of the costs. Having contacted St Andrews,  which said it couldnt  
reduce the premium or offer a new policy, Mrs C cancelled it and initiated  this complaint. She 
was able to insure  the property elsewhere for much  less. 
St Andrews  said the premiums had been set based  on its view of the risk of insuring Mr Fs 
property. It said the property was considered to be at high risk of flooding.  So, it didnt offer 
any refund. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed, so Ive been 
asked to make a decision. Mrs C thinks St Andrews is wrong about the flood risk because 
the area has, to her knowledge, never  been  flooded.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint,  and Ill explain why.
I should make clear that I dont have the power to tell a business what  its insurance should 
have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling the business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. But I can look at whether St Andrews  has treated Mr F fairly 
throughout the period  he was insured  with them. 
Mr Fs policy automatically renewed  each year. With automatic renewals, there is a chance 
that if a consumer doesnt engage with the renewal process or shop around, they can find 
they are paying  much  more for their cover than a new customer.  An insurer hasnt 
necessarily done  anything wrong  by increasing the premium at renewal  and there are often 
risk related  reasons why an insurer has done so. 
But, where an insurer knew, or shouldve known, that the consumer wasnt  engaging with the 
renewal process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated the consumers 
fairly  and that they didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. So, Ive looked at whether Mr F 
engaged with the renewals process. And Ive found that on a couple of occasions  he did. 
Ref: DRN65717102Mr F engaged in some way with the renewal  process in 2013, which resulted in a new policy  
starting. The new policy was cheaper than the previous one. I understand there was an 
introductory discount in 2013, which meant  Mr F was charged less than St Andrews 
assessment of the cost of providing the insurance (including, amongst other things, 
operating costs and the cost of claims). I dont  think its unfair  for an insurer  to seek to 
recoup that cost over the subsequent years.
Insurers will typically, over the years, also revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to 
date and refined  models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium 
will increase  accordingly   theres nothing wrong  with this.
St Andrews  view of the flood risk at the property increased further in 2015.  At that stage  
there was further  engagement from Mr F, who contacted St Andrews to see if the premium  
could be reduced.  He was told this wasnt possible,  but he agreed to renew the policy  
anyway. 
When Mrs C contacted  St Andrews in 2019,  it was unable to offer a discount or cover under 
any of its other home insurance policies due to its view of the flood risk. It was only because  
Mr F was an existing  customer  that St Andrews was willing  to offer cover  at all.
Given Mr Fs engagement  with the policy in 2013  and 2015,  I dont think  St Andrews had 
reason to think that Mr F was not engaged  with the renewal process. And given St Andrews 
view of the flood  risk at the property, Im satisfied that the increases in price after 2015  were 
for genuine risk related  reasons. Prior to this, as mentioned above, it appears that St 
Andrews was simply adjusting the premium to recoup the initial  discount  and bring  the cost 
to Mr F more in line with the real cost of proving  the insurance. 
I understand that in 2019 it was possible to insure the property  for much less than St 
Andrews had quoted, so Mrs C thinks St Andrews must have been overcharging. I fully 
understand her view on this, but there  are many reasons  why it wouldnt be fair to treat this 
as a direct  comparison.  
For example, insurers generally provide discounts to new customers, so they end up paying  
less than the true cost of providing the insurance  policy. Home insurance  policies  are not all 
the same   they have different levels of cover, excesses and terms and conditions  that can 
affect the price  charged. Insurers set prices based  on many  different things, including the 
anticipated cost of claims and operating costs, which can vary significantly between insurers. 
Each insurers view of risk will also differ, perhaps  significantly. For example, Mr Fs new 
insurance provider  may not place the same risk on the property as St Andrews  did. But that 
doesnt mean St Andrews perceptions of the risks were incorrect or that it treated Mr F 
unfairly. I appreciate  Mrs C might  not agree with St Andrews  risk assessment but ultimately 
it is St Andrews decision as to how much  risk a property represents and in turn the cost it 
sets for the insurance each year. So, just because the policy with St Andrews cost a lot 
more than Mr Fs new policy   that doesnt mean  St Andrews treated Mr F unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN65717103Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C, on behalf  of 
Mr F, to accept  or reject  my decision before 8 July 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6571710