K820x#11complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a hire 
purchase agreement  in 2005.  Miss W says PSA Finance UK Limited mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss W says that she was led to believe that the PPI was a mandatory part of her hire 
purchase agreement.  But I think PSA made it clear that Miss W didnt have  to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant 
remember this as it was so long ago. I say this because PSA has provided a copy of 
Miss Ws hire purchase agreement, and on this I can see that the PPI is presented as a 
separate, optional  product. The PPI has been  selected, and Miss W has signed to 
confirm her selection. This is separate to her signature for the agreement.
PSA recommended  the PPI to Miss W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover. Although Miss W has said that as she had 
good sick pay benefits from her employer at the time, she PPI couldve paid out on top 
of, and for longer than the cover she had in place.
Its possible the information PSA gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss W has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So PSA doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss W paid for it. But PSA has already offered to give Miss W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand PSA has already paid this to Miss W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Ref: DRN65035082Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6503508