K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Mr S says HFC Bank Limited  (HFC) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr S took the PPI when he applied for his credit card by post. HFC no longer has a copy  of 
Mr Ss actual  application form. But a sample of the form in use at the time has a box to tick if 
PPI was wanted. So I think its likely the PPI was added to Mr Ss account after he ticked the 
box on his form to say he wanted it. And I think he wouldve known he didnt have to tick the 
box for the cover if he didnt want the cover. So, based on what I have, I think  HFC likely 
made it clear  that Mr S had a choice  about taking the cover  and he chose to take it.
HFC didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr S - so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr S got the information  he needed to decide whether  the PPI 
was right for him.
Its possible the information HFC gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And from what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, Mr S wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions or 
limits on the cover  so it seems like the cover  wouldve been useful for him if something 
went wrong. 
Also Mr S hasnt recalled being entitled  to any work sick pay. Hes said he had at least  three 
months pay in savings. But for a successful sickness claim the PPI benefit wouldve been  
paid out for longer - up to twelve months. The PPI also has unemployment cover.  And the 
benefit wouldve  been paid out on top of any redundancy  pay Mr S received. 
Taking everything into account,  on balance I dont think better information about the cover 
wouldve put Mr S off taking the cover. 
What Ive said above means HFC doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. 
But HFC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
HFC got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  HFC didnt tell Mr S, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, HFC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account all Mr Ss comments,  including what hes said about taking out the 
PPI by phone,  being  pressured into it and being  led to believe hed be more likely to get 
Ref: DRN69462742credit if he took the PPI. But Mr Ss application was made by post and I havent anything  to 
support what hes said about being misled or pressured like hes said. So for these reasons, 
and those Ive already  given above,  these points  dont change my decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HFC Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HFC Bank Limited does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6946274