K821x#15complaint
Miss P is seeking to recover £4,100  from HSBC  UK Bank Plc, which was stolen from her 
bank account  as a result of a third-party  scam.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Miss P unwittingly authorised the payment   
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from 
the payee bank. 
my provisional decision  
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on
11 December 2020. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
1.It is common ground that Miss P authorised three scam payments totalling £4,100 on 8 
October 2018. This left her account in three payments - £1,990 (at 16.26), £1,995 (at 
16.31) £115 (at 16.35). Miss P was duped by the scammers into transferring the money 
via her online banking. They deceived her over the phone into thinking  she owed HMRC 
that money and if she didnt pay within  the hour she would be arrested and her passport 
seized. Miss P was convinced she was speaking with HMRC as the scammer instructed  
her to check the number they were calling from was legitimate by conducting  a web 
search. Miss Ps memory of the incident  is vague  given  the time thats past, but she 
believes the scammers told her that if her bank called, she should say whatever 
necessary to get the payments through given the serious consequences of not paying. 
2.I accept this was an authorised payment  even  though Miss P was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used  her security  credentials to request the payment. So, 
although she was tricked into making the payment, under the Payment Services  
Regulations, Miss P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
3.However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
4.Having reviewed Miss Ps account statements for the six months prior to the first 
payment, I think the activity on the account was unusual and out of character for Miss P 
by the point of the second transfer of £1,995. Miss P doesnt make  payments for such  a 
large amount  from her account   it is mostly  used for low value card payments and 
Ref: DRN69239362Direct Debits. However, I think the amount of the first transfer  on its own wouldnt be 
enough to fairly conclude  that HSBC shouldve flagged that transaction for additional 
checks. But by the second  payment, there  was a series of unusual activity  and a pattern 
forming. Miss C by that point had transferred  £3,998 from her savings account into her 
current account, pretty much clearing the savings account of all funds. This was an 
account that in the six months prior to the scam had always maintained  a healthy 
balance. She had set up a new payee, something she doesnt do regularly,  if at all, on 
her current  account. And then, by the second payment, made two transfers to the new 
payee within five minutes.  This transfer took her current  account  balance very low and 
then the final payment,  pretty much cleared it. So, when  taken  altogether, Im satisfied 
there were signs Miss P could be at risk of fraud by the time she made the second  
transfer.  
5.It follows that I wouldve then expected  HSBC  to contact Miss P and satisfy  themselves 
she wasnt at risk of any financial harm. Miss P was coached somewhat on what to say 
to the bank if it did call. I cant be sure exactly what was discussed as Miss P cant  
remember the details.  However, its clear  they told her to make sure the payment was 
processed. But I dont  think  this means  the scam  couldnt  have been prevented.  Im 
satisfied that had HSBC called and spoke to Miss P, the scam wouldve come to light 
through HSBCs questioning.  This is a well-known scam. If the bank staff had called Miss 
P and probed her on the reason for the payment e.g. asking what  the payment was for 
and whether she had received any phone calls asking her to transfer the money  etcit 
seems likely that Miss P wouldnt  have  been  able to satisfactorily  answer the questions  
especially as it doesnt seem  she was given a full cover story - and the scam  wouldve 
unravelled. 
6.My conclusions  about what is likely to have happened if HSBC had called Miss P and 
asked her some probing questions  are reinforced by the fact she realised very quickly 
something wasnt right with the phone call and what shed been asked to do. She says 
she called a family member after the phone call ended, as she was very upset by what  
had just happened. It was her family member that told her shed  likely  been scammed, 
and Miss P contacted the bank immediately. It therefore seems  likely that had the bank 
sensitively probed Miss P and warned her of the potential for scams, the scam wouldve 
come to light, and Miss P would not have sent the second and third payments. 
7.In light of my conclusions above,  it is necessary  in this case to consider  whether, had 
HSBC flagged the second transaction,  it wouldve  been  able to recover the stolen funds 
from the payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. Ive 
concluded that HSBC couldve prevented the second and third payments being sent had 
it blocked the second payment and contacted  Miss P. If it had done so, it seems  likely 
the first payment wouldve  come to light. However, Im not in agreement  with the 
investigator that it is fair to conclude there was enough time for HSBC  to have acted to 
recover the first payment from the receiving  bank. 
8.The second payment took place at 16:31 and the receiving bank has confirmed that the 
funds from the first payment were removed  from the scammers account at 18:09.  This 
leaves only a small window of opportunity for HSBC to contact  Miss P about  the second  
payment (which might not happen  straight away upon it being blocked), have a 
conversation with her to determine that she was being scammed and then report the 
matter to the receiving  bank. Whilst its possible  HSBC  may well have been able to 
achieve all this within the timeframe, I also have to consider  that the receiving bank 
would still then need the time to act on the information and take steps to protect the 
Ref: DRN69239363money in the account. Given the short time frame involved, it doesnt feel fair in the 
circumstances of this particular complaint, to conclude that HSBC couldve  recovered the 
first payment.  
9.Ive also considered whether Miss P should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of 
authorising the payment, she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate 
what she was doing or the consequences of her actions. Miss P has explained she 
asked the scammer how she could verify  what they were  saying  given the seriousness of 
what they were claiming. The scammer told her she could check  the authenticity  of the 
number they had dialled her from by doing  an internet search. Miss P said the search 
came back  to show it was a HMRC number  and so this persuaded her to continue. In 
addition, the scammer had threatened serious consequences if Miss P didnt pay and so 
she was understandably very worried. She isnt an expert  in the tax system and so 
believing she was speaking to HMRC, trusted  what she was being told. Im therefore 
satisfied there was no contributory  negligence on this occasion, she was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. 
10.In the circumstances  Im satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Miss P 
for the second  and third payments, totalling  £2,110,  together  with interest to compensate 
her for being deprived of the money she lost. This money was transferred from Miss Ps 
savings account  to her current account.  Im satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the 
money from Miss P this wouldve remained in her savings account, so interest should be 
at that rate. 
11.I also think its appropriate to make  a modest award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience Miss P has suffered. In reaching  that conclusion  Im mindful that her loss 
was ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster and it was an authorised 
transaction, but HSBC could ultimately have prevented the final two payments.
So subject to any further representations from Miss P or HSBC  I was minded to partially  
uphold the complaint.
Miss P responded to the provisional  decision explaining that she feels  like she should be 
granted the full amount  back from HSBC given the way she was treated. She explained she 
has been really  affected by the situation  and has been depressed.  
HSBC disagreed with the provisional  decision.  It said the following:
It is unsure how I reached the conclusion the scam wouldve come to light if it had 
questioned Miss P further given she was coached on what to say by the scammer. It 
thinks it is more likely  she wouldve come up with a plausible reason for transferring 
the money and this wouldnt have caused any suspicion with the bank.  
It says that Ive stated  this is a well-known scam but then said there was no 
contributory negligence on Miss Ps part. 
It doesnt agree to the £300  compensation as there was no bank interaction  or 
suspicion held and it did all it could to try and recover the funds.  
HSBC placed  emphasis  on the legal case of Barclays Bank plc v Quincecare  Ltd 
[1992] 4 All ER 363, which it feels I didnt address sufficiently specifically the fact it 
says it had no reasonable grounds for believing the payment  instruction was an 
attempt to misappropriate Miss Ps funds. It says the Quincecare ruling means  its 
Ref: DRN69239364responsibility to be alert to fraud is subordinate to its contractual duty to promptly 
execute a payment order.
HSBC point to the fact the transfers appeared to be going to an account in Miss Ps 
name and wouldnt  have caused any concern. It also said it was perfectly  normal  for 
customers to spend  all their savings at once. 
Finally, HSBC pointed  to the fact I said Miss P isnt an expert in the tax system. But it 
argues she didnt need to be and shouldve known she wouldnt have to pay tax 
given she was in receipt of work  and child tax credits.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as I explained
in my provisional decision.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  taking into account the law, regulators  rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
Im aware that HSBC  considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of 
it in terms of identifying  payments  that might indicate  a consumer is at risk of financial harm;  
and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. Im mindful  that the 
courts have  interpreted  Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are 
different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take account of 
regulatory and industry  standards  beyond  the narrow legal duties considered  in that and 
other court cases. 
In any event, Im not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
Whilst I understand HSBCs comments around the transfers appearing to go to accounts in 
Miss Ps name, the fact is they were still new payees and indeed, transfers to accounts 
appearing to be in the consumers name is the hallmark of many  a scam. So, this shouldnt 
be a reason for HSBC not to flag a payment as unusual. The same can be said for Miss P 
Ref: DRN69239365utilising all of her savings.  I accept that this alone is not wholly  unusual.  But when taken 
together with the new payee  being  set up and quick successive transactions to this new 
payee, Im still satisfied there were enough signs that Miss P was at risk of financial harm. 
I maintain that the scam wouldve come  to light had HSBC contacted Miss P and asked her 
some questions about the payments.  It doesnt appear Miss P was given any specific  cover 
story to tell the bank, instead she was told to ensure the payment was processed. It 
therefore doesnt seem a stretch to conclude that even with a small amount of probing  as to 
the reason for the payment, whatever story Miss P may have used, wouldve fallen apart. 
Miss P was under an extreme amount of pressure at that time given what  the scammers had 
threatened, so Im not persuaded she was in the right frame  of mind to think on her feet so 
quickly should HSBC  have probed  her. In addition, I wouldve expected  HSBC  to warn Miss 
P about the potential for scams, and this alone  may have  been enough to make her think 
twice. 
HSBC believe Miss P should  bear some  responsibility by way of contributory negligence.  It 
said I made reference to this being  a well-known  scam, yet said Miss P was the unwitting 
and blameless victim here.  My reference  to this being a well-known scam was in relation to 
HSBC and its knowledge of scams. I dont believe its fair to place the same level of 
knowledge on Miss Ps shoulders. HSBC is the expert in such situations  and would be privy 
to scam trends. In addition, I dont agree that Miss P shouldve known she was being 
scammed because she receives benefits.  This would be an assumption that Miss P has a 
clear understanding of how the full tax and benefit  system works, which  Im afraid isnt 
reasonable in my view. Plus, scammers  are extremely clever and manipulative,  and in Miss 
Ps circumstance,  had made some serious  and time sensitive threats  to Miss P. Therefore, 
my reasoning stands  that Miss P wouldve been  completely  in the dark that the call she 
received from HMRC was in fact a scam. Therefore, Im satisfied there was no contributory 
negligence on this occasion. 
I understand Miss P would like HSBC to refund  the full amount. Im very conscious of how 
upsetting the whole experience has been  for her and Im very sorry to hear the impact it had 
on her mental health. However, as my provisional decision explained, Im satisfied  HSBC  
were not in a position to prevent the first payment being made, nor recover it from the bank it 
was sent to. It therefore follows that I cant ask HSBC to refund the first payment. But I do 
agree compensation should  be paid by HSBC. Miss P should  keep in mind that the 
fraudsters are ultimately to blame for a lot of the upset shes  faced, but as HSBC  couldve 
prevented at least some of Miss Ps loss, the £300  is fair. 
Ref: DRN69239366my final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint about HSBC  UK Bank  Plc and require  the 
bank to:
Pay Miss P £2,110;
Pay interest on this amount  at the savings  account rate from the date of loss to the
date of settlement;
Pay Miss P £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6923936