K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection  plan (TMPP).  Miss H also 
complains that Halifax  didnt review her policy in 2008 when she changed her mortgage.
background
Miss H took out a mortgage in 2004  and with it PPI. She took out TMPP cover  to protect her 
mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Miss H was unhappy with Halifaxs response when she complained  about the way it sold her 
PPI to her, so she brought  her complaint to us. We investigated  her complaint and the 
adjudicator didnt recommend upholding it.  
Miss H disagreed with our adjudicator. She says, through her representative,  that we have 
misunderstood her complaint. She says Halifax sold her another policy in 2008 and upheld  
this claim.  However the 2004  policy continued,  so, she says,  its absurd that her complaint in 
relation to the 2004 has not been upheld. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax no longer  has all the documents from the time of sale.  But, this isnt surprising, given 
how long ago this sale happened.  I wouldnt  reasonably  expect Halifax or Miss H to have 
kept these documents. 
Ive taken into account what Miss H remembers. She says she was told she had to take 
TMPP to get the mortgage. She says she was told it wasnt  optional because  she was taking 
the mortgage in just her name.   I cant  know exactly what was discussed when Miss H took 
out the mortgage with TMPP.  After so long,  it wouldnt  be reasonable to expect  her to recall  
exactly what was said at the time. This means that what  Miss H says isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold her complaint . I must look at all the available information and 
take into account the wider circumstances. I have to be impartial and decide what I think  is 
most likely to have happened.  
Ive seen Miss Hs mortgage  offer. It wasnt a condition of the mortgage  that she took TMPP. 
From looking  at other cases,  weve learnt  how Halifax sold TMPP. Ive not seen  anything  to 
make me think that Halifax  wasnt following its normal sales process here.  So I think its 
likely that PPI was explained  and recommended to Miss H and she decided  to take it. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long time.  
Miss Hs home couldve been at risk if the mortgage repayments werent paid.  She alone 
was responsible for making the monthly  repayments. I think it likely that Miss H was 
persuaded of the benefits and decided to buy TMPP.  So, I cant  fairly uphold her complaint  
on this ground.  
Ref: DRN62024402Halifax says it recommended PPI to Miss H. So, it had to make sure the cover  it 
recommended was suitable.  It also had to give Miss H important policy information in a clear 
way. Miss H said she didnt need  or want TMPP.
But, it looks like PPI was suitable for Miss H based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
when the policy was sold. 
She was eligible for the cover. And although Miss H said she had a good amount  of sick pay 
cover through her work (six months worth  at full pay and six months at half) this doesnt 
mean that Halifaxs recommendation was unsuitable.  
PPI couldve protected  Miss H if she wasnt able to work through accident or sickness or if 
she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  The policy  couldve paid out for up to 24 
months per claim  so for much  longer  than she wouldve been covered through her work 
benefits. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Miss Hs work  benefits, which  I think couldve 
been useful if Miss H found she had extra costs as a result  of being too unwell to go back  to 
work, or she lost her job. 
Miss H said she had around £7,000 in savings. The PPI policy  wouldve allowed her to keep 
hold of these to meet other  household  expenses at what might  be a difficult time financially.  
The policy provided  Miss H with long term protection as she couldve made  repeated claims 
on the policy. 
Miss H said Halifax  didnt  explain the terms and conditions of the policy, the exclusions or 
her cancellation  rights. She said she would never have agreed to take TMPP if these things 
had been explained. There were some  things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
those applied in Miss Hs case. So, I dont  think having more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
I dont know if the cost and benefits  of the PPI were made clear to Miss H when she bought 
the policy. But she chose  to take out the cover  when she didnt  have to  and she didnt take 
out some  of the other  insurance that was part of the TMPP package,  such  as life or critical 
illness cover.  So she seems to have  specifically wanted just the PPI element.
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Miss H still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed, as the 
policy gave her useful  protection in her particular  situation. I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped  Miss H buying PPI. So I dont find she has lost out as a result of anything 
Halifax may have done wrong during the sales process.
Miss H also complains about the fact that Halifax did not review her TMPP needs in 2008  
when she changed  her mortgage. She said the adviser said that as her monthly repayments 
werent changing by much  and the policy would still cover her. She felt that her 
circumstances shouldve  been reviewed by the bank. However, under the terms of the 
policy, it said if she wanted to change her policy, she should contact the bank. Miss Hs 
policy was a monthly paid policy, so she wouldnt have lost out financially if she cancelled 
her policy or changed the amount of cover. So, I cant  see that Halifax  did anything wrong 
here.
I have taken everything that Miss H and her representative  have  said,  including  that Bank of 
Scotland has settled  another  complaint about  the mis-sale of a new PPI policy in 2008. 
Ref: DRN62024403However, this doesnt change  my view on whether  Miss Hs complaint was mis-sold in 2004, 
or whether it shouldve  reviewed her existing policy in 2008. Each case is considered on its 
own facts and merits.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6202440