K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling  of her claim under her home 
insurance policy after her house was burgled  and set alight.
background
In April 2018, Mrs As property was burgled and set alight. She made a claim under her 
policy.
AXA arranged for Mrs A and her family  to be moved to alternative  accommodation  while it 
assessed the claim. It noted that Mrs A and her partner (who Ill call Mr K) had made  claims 
for theft in 2015 and 2016,  and that the 2016  incident had similarities  to the new claim. It 
made enquiries with the police and with Mrs As former insurer.
In September  2018, Mrs A complained to AXA about  the delay in it accepting her claim and 
its lack of communication. In October 2018,  AXA issued a final response letter not upholding 
her complaint. Mrs A referred her complaint  to us.
While the complaint was under investigation by this service, Mrs A continued to be unhappy 
at the lack of progress  of her claim. She made further complaints to AXA and to us about  the 
continued delays.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
I note that in July 2019, AXAs legal representative  wrote to Mrs A explaining that it 
considered the claim may be fraudulent and inviting Mrs As comments. In September  2019, 
AXAs legal representative wrote again to Mrs A confirming that it believed the claim was 
fraudulent and that AXA would therefore be declining it. Mrs A hasnt complained  to us about 
AXAs decision to decline the claim.  Im therefore not addressing  that matter within this 
decision. I am simply considering AXAs handling  of the claim up until the point it declined  
the claim in September 2019.
AXA has said that we should look at the claim decision  as well because, unless we find it 
was wrong for it to say claim was fraudulent, we are unable to award Mrs A compensation. 
I dont agree. Even if the claim  were  fraudulent,  it doesnt  relieve  AXA of its duty to treat 
Mrs A fairly. Im therefore satisfied that I can consider a complaint about the handling of the 
claim without  necessarily  considering the fairness of the eventual claims decision.
However, in this case I consider that AXA dealt  with the claim in a reasonable way up until 
the time it decided to decline  the claim (and, as explained, Im not considering  the fairness of 
AXAs decision).
Following the burglary and fire, AXA made  arrangements for Mrs A and her family to move  
into alternative accommodation. It continued  to pay for alternative  accommodation  
throughout its claim assessment and beyond.
I appreciate that AXAs assessment took a long time. However, it had concerns about fraud 
from an early  stage.  Fraud is obviously  a serious  matter. It is therefore no surprise that AXA 
had to undertake  a very thorough investigation.
Ref: DRN63023602This investigation involved gathering evidence from various sources.  For example,  AXA had 
to liaise  with the police. And after it had received a redacted police report, it decided it 
needed police photos taken of the crime scene. These were eventually received in 
November 2018  but Im satisfied that it wasnt AXAs fault that they werent  received sooner.
AXA decided it should obtain information from Mrs As previous insurer  because  of the 
similarities between this and the 2016 claim. I consider this was a reasonable view to take.  
I note it had difficulty in obtaining this information and had to request it on more than one 
occasion. The information it had requested was eventually received at the end of January 
2019 but again Im satisfied that AXA had chased  for this at appropriate intervals and cant 
reasonably be held responsible for how long it took to be received.
In the meantime, AXA obtained  other evidence such as statements from relevant parties, 
including Mr K, and corroborating evidence to show that Mr K had correctly  described his 
movements on the night of the incident.  Im satisfied that AXA acted reasonably by seeking 
to obtain this evidence and that it did so as quickly as possible.
In December 2018, based on the information  it had so far received, AXA remained 
concerned about  the potentially fraudulent nature of the claim. It therefore employed the 
services of a forensic expert. I consider this was a reasonable decision for AXA to take at 
this stage. The expert, in turn, needed further information such as the alarm log from the 
insured property on the night of the incident.  I consider that this was reasonably obtained.
I appreciate that by February 2019  AXA had obtained most of the information relevant to its 
assessment. There was then a significant  delay until July 2019  when  it wrote  to Mrs A to 
advise her of its concerns  about the claim.  However,  while  progress was slow during this 
period, this isnt to say nothing was happening.  AXA was analysing the information and 
deciding what it thought about everything, as well as taking legal advice on its position.
The protracted enquiries meant  AXA was unable to give Mrs A its decision on her claim. 
I recognise this would have been  very frustrating  for her, particularly as AXA wasnt  
reasonably able either to tell her it was investigating  possible  fraud. While AXA didnt accept 
the claim while its investigations were ongoing, neither did it seek to decline it or to refuse 
any assistance while it considered its liability. And while it was fifteen months following the 
claim before AXA was eventually able to tell Mrs A of its fraud suspicions, I consider this is 
not an unreasonable period of time given the amount at stake (the buildings and contents 
claim together would  have  amounted  to over £100,000)  and the seriousness of the fraud 
accusation.
After allowing Mrs A to respond to its letter of July 2019, and carrying  out further enquiries in 
light of her response, AXA eventually issued its decision  to decline the claim because of 
fraud in September 2019. Im satisfied there was no unreasonable delay  by AXA between  
the two letters.  
Overall, I am satisfied that AXAs lengthy investigation was necessary and Im not persuaded 
that there  were unreasonable  delays  or other issues of poor service which  would warrant me 
awarding compensation to Mrs A.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mrs A didnt accept my provisional  decision. She said AXA had shown  a lack of 
communication; that it had changed its mind  over whether it was liable to provide cover; that 
Ref: DRN63023603it had initially put her and her family  in inadequate  alternative accommodation even  though 
she was heavily pregnant at the time; and that it was slow to request information  from her 
previous insurer and the police.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  I shall explain  why.
Mrs A has raised various points about what she sees  as AXAs  failings during this claim. 
However, I considered  each of these issues before I reached my provisional decision.
I can understand why Mrs A might have felt that AXA was failing to communicate, 
particularly during the first half of 2019.  However,  as I have explained,  it was investigating 
possible fraud by Mrs A and it couldnt reasonably tell her of this until it had gathered  the 
necessary evidence and established its view of the matter.
I cant see that AXA ever changed  its mind  over whether it should accept the claim. It 
delayed making  a decision until it had fully investigated the potential fraud. In the meantime, 
it provided assistance to Mrs A, such as through the provision  of alternative accommodation, 
on a without prejudice  basis. I think this was reasonable.
Following the fire, Mrs A and her family urgently needed alternative accommodation. AXA 
therefore put her up in a local hotel. When she made AXA aware that this was inadequate,  it 
took steps to move  her as soon as possible to a serviced apartment and later to a suitable 
property available  as a longer-term let. I consider this was reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive already explained in my provisional  decision that Im satisfied AXA made  reasonable 
effort to chase up information it needed  from Mrs As previous insurer  and the police.
In light of the above, and given that AXA has offered no comment, Im satisfied that my 
provisional decision should stand.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6302360