K821x#15complaint
Ms T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her two different current account
packages in connection with her bank  account.  The first was called a Travel  Pack  Plus and
the second a Travel  Pack. Ms T paid monthly  fees for the packages  and received  several
potential benefits  in return.
Ms T thinks that Barclays  should refund her all the fees she paid for the packages, plus
interest.
background
I previously sent Barclays and Ms T a provisional decision on this complaint. That
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and
I explained why I thought  that Barclays had mis-sold the Travel Pack Plus to Ms T, but not 
the Travel Pack. I described how I would tell Barclays to compensate  Ms T if I finally  decided  
that way 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and evidence they wanted me to
consider before I made  a final decision.
The period  of time I gave for responses  has now passed. Barclays has said that it accepts 
my provisional decision and Ms T has not sent us anything further. 
.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Ms T and Barclays have told us or sent us
throughout the case, but as there is nothing new for me to consider since I sent my
provisional decision, I have reached  the same  conclusions for the same reasons.
Unless it has already  done  so, Barclays  should  now put things right for Ms T by paying her 
appropriate compensation.
putting things right
To put things right for Ms T, Barclays should  put her into the financial position she would
have been in if it had recommended the Travel Pack to her rather  than the Travel  Pack  Plus.
It should therefore:
refund  Ms T the difference in each monthly fee she paid for the Travel Pack Plus 
compared to what she would  have paid for the Travel Pack,  from the time it sold her 
the Travel Pack  Plus until it switched her to the Travel Pack.
add interest to each  of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Ms T paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
Ref: DRN66518962(+) HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays
must give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, and in my provisional decision,  I am upholding part of 
Ms Ts complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. It should now put things right for her by 
paying her the compensation  I have  described.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66518963Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her two different current  account
packages in connection with her bank account.  The first was called a Travel Pack Plus and
the second a Travel  Pack. Ms T paid monthly fees for the packages and received several
potential benefits in return.
Ms T thinks  that Barclays should refund her all the fees she paid for the packages, plus
interest.
background
The adjudicator who looked into Ms Ts complaint didnt  think that Barclays had mis-sold
either package to her and didnt recommend that it should give her any money back.
Ms T didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings and asked for an ombudsman  to reconsider
her case. So it has come  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts, including
packages like those Barclays sold to Ms T, on our website, and Ive used this approach to
help me to decide what to do about Ms Ts complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Ms T and Barclays have  told us or sent us about the case
and Ive provisionally  decided to uphold  part of it. I think that Barclays mis-sold the Travel
Pack Plus, but not the Travel Pack.  Ill explain why.
Ms T has banked with Barclays for quite a while. Barclays has checked its records for her
and has told us that:
before it sold the Travel  Pack Plus to Ms T, she held one of its packaged  accounts  called 
Additions Plus, for which she paid a fee
in 2014, she switched to a fee-free account,  but Barclays sold her the Travel  Pack  Plus 
package, for which she paid a lower  fee than she had for the Additions Plus account
in 2017, Ms T switched to the Travel Pack package, for which she paid a lower fee than she 
had for the Travel Pack Plus package.
I believe that Barclays records about this are reliable. Ms T seems to agree with them,  and I
have taken them to be accurate.
Ms T has complained about  the way Barclays sold her the Additions Plus account as well as
the two Travel  Packs.  However, Barclays has told us that it only received  details about  the
Additions Plus complaint  after Ms T had complained  about the two travel packs. It told us a
while ago that it was considering the way it sold the Additions  Plus account  to Ms T
separately.
I do not have many details about Ms Ts complaint about the Additions Plus account  and I
have not considered it in this decision. This means that if Ms T wishes,  she is still free to
Ref: DRN66518964bring a separate  complaint  about the Additions Plus account to us. But I cant give her any
advice about this, or give any indication  as to whether  we will be able to look into it under  the
rules which  govern our jurisdiction,  or speculate on what the outcome may be.
Ms T and Barclays have agreed that Barclays  sold the Travel Pack Plus to her during a
meeting at one of its branches,  but they disagree about what happened.
Ms T has told us that she wanted a loan from Barclays, but it told her that buying the Travel
Pack Plus was compulsory for it to agree to her request. She has said that Barclays
forced her to take the Travel  Pack Plus and didnt give her any other alternative.
Barclays has denied  that it forced Ms T to buy the Travel Pack Plus.  It has sent us copies of
some notes it made during (or shortly after) the meeting. The notes say that Ms T was
looking  to borrow  some  money, and also wanted to switch from Additions Plus to Travel
Pack Plus as she needed  travel insurance  and (car breakdown cover)  but not phone or
gadget insurance.
The notes also mention  that Ms T travelled from time-to-time. Ms T is not British  and they
refer to her country  of origin in Europe and indicate how often she went  there.
From Barclays notes, I am satisfied that it discussed Ms Ts needs with her during  the
meeting and that her potential need for travel insurance  probably  featured prominently
during the discussion.
Barclays has told us that it didnt recommend the Travel Pack Plus to Ms T, but sold it to her
on an information only basis. However,  Ms T has told us that Barclays did recommend that
she should buy the Travel  Pack Plus.
Ms Ts first language is not English and she has told us that in 2014 she didnt fully
understand the UKs banking system, or some of the paperwork Barclays used during the
meeting. It seems to me that after Barclays had discussed  Ms Ts travel and other insurance
needs with her, it would certainly have felt to her that Barclays was recommending  her to
buy the Travel  Pack Plus,  so I have  assessed her complaint  on this basis.  This meant that
Barclays should have checked that the Travel Pack Plus was a reasonable choice for her
circumstances, and told her about its costs and benefits clearly and fairly so she could
decide if she wanted it.
In 2014, the potential benefits of the Additions Plus account included travel insurance  (which
I understand to have  been  worldwide), car breakdown cover, mobile phone  insurance  and
gadget insurance. At that time, the potential benefits of the Travel Pack Plus included
worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover and some banking benefits.  The benefits of
the Travel Pack were  quite similar to those of the Travel Pack  Plus, but for the lower cost it
only offered  European (rather than worldwide) travel insurance.
From Barclays notes of the meeting it seems to me that Ms T had a potential  need for travel
insurance for her travels in Europe. Indeed, in recent correspondence with us, Barclays has
mentioned that it had evidence.prior to this sale that Ms T travelled  to her country of
origin. However, as far as I can tell, Ms Ts travel  and travel plans at that time were  limited to
Europe, so she seems to have only had a need  for European travel insurance, not
worldwide. She could  have obtained this from the Travel Pack, without needing to incur the
extra cost of the Travel Pack Plus.
I have looked for any other reason why it may have been appropriate for Barclays to
recommend the Travel  Pack  Plus to Ms T by considering if she had a specific need for any
of the other benefits it provided which the Travel Pack  didnt. But I havent identified any. So
it seems to me that given  what Barclays knew about Ms Ts situation in 2014,  it acted
Ref: DRN66518965unreasonably when it recommended the Travel Pack  Plus to her, although  it would have been 
reasonable to recommend  the Travel Pack.
Neither Ms T nor Barclays have told us a great deal about how she came to change  to the
Travel Pack in 2017. However, I understand that she did so during a further meeting and that
Barclays recommended  the change. By that time, Barclays has told us that the travel
insurance that came  with the Travel Pack had been upgraded to worldwide. But although
Ms T may still only have needed European travel insurance, she was no longer paying extra
for worldwide  cover, so I think it was fair and reasonable  for Barclays to recommend the
Travel Pack to her.
In fairness to Barclays, I would like to clarify that I havent seen  anything  to make me think it
forced either the Travel  Pack Plus or the Travel Pack on to Ms T. Nor do I think it told her
that either of these was compulsory if she wanted a loan or denied her a choice or tried to
hide the costs from her. But I do think it made an unfair recommendation by advising her to
buy the Travel  Pack Plus which  was excessive  for her needs, when the Travel Pack would
have been sufficient, more appropriate and cheaper. So Barclays  should now put things right
for Ms T by paying her appropriate compensation.
putting things  right
To put things right for Ms T, Barclays should put her into the financial position she would
have been in if it had recommended the Travel  Pack to her rather than the Travel Pack Plus.
It should therefore:
refund Ms T the difference  in each monthly fee she paid for the Travel Pack Plus compared  to 
what she would have paid for the Travel Pack, from the time it sold her the Travel Pack  Plus 
until it switched her to the Travel  Pack.
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the date Ms T 
paid the fee until the date it makes  the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays
must give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently intend to uphold part of Ms Ts complaint.  Should I
finally decide this way, I will tell Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right for Ms T by paying
her the compensation  I have  described above.
But first, I invite both parties to respond to this provisional decision with any further
comments or arguments they wish to make, or any information they wish me to review.
I will consider any responses they send me by 22 June 2020 before making a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6651896