K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that PSA Finance UK Limited  imposed unfair  charges when he terminated 
his finance agreement. He wants the charges removed.
background 
Mr M tells us he voluntarily terminated (VT) a finance agreement with PSA.  But after the 
vehicle had been inspected - as part of the VT process - he says PSA imposed charges 
which he didnt think were  fair. In particular  he said it charged for rust to alloy wheels. And it 
had also charged  for an additional monthly payment. Mr M said hed agreed to pay what it 
would cost him to have  the damage  repaired privately - but he said PSA had refused  to 
accept this offer.
PSA told us the vehicle had been inspected by its collection agent, which Ill refer to as 
V, and the photographs taken at the time clearly showed the damage  for which  charges 
had been made. It said it had deducted £50 valet charge  as a gesture of goodwill - but the 
remaining charges  for damage would still apply.
Our investigator issued  two views. In his first view he didnt uphold  the complaint and 
thought the damage charges had been fairly applied together  with an additional monthly  
payment owing at the date of VT. But he subsequently issued  a revised  opinion  regarding 
the monthly payment. He said hed spoken  with PSA and had been  informed  it had imposed 
this charge in error. So he didnt feel Mr M should have to pay this. But he still thought the 
remaining charges  for damage were justified.
Following his revised view PSA agreed to remove  the monthly charge. And Mr M accepted 
the investigators view regarding the damage  except for two alloy wheels. He didnt think he 
should be responsible for damage due to corrosion/rust.
As its not been  possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make 
the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr M would feel concern  at being presented  with a sizeable bill when he 
voluntarily terminated  the finance agreement and returned the vehicle. But Im pleased to 
see that most of the issues have now been  resolved. 
As I understand it, the remaining area of dispute concerns the charge for rust/corrosion to 
two of the alloy wheels. 
In his first view the investigator  referred  to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association guidelines on fair wear and tear.  And he referred to these in dealing with the 
separate areas of damage  for which a charge had been made. So I neednt  repeat this.
Ref: DRN65281142Ive viewed the photographs taken  by V. The photographs are of good  quality and show  the 
affected areas. And the report has clearly  identified several different instances of damage.  
Importantly, it has also distinguished between the damage it considers to be fair wear  and 
tear - where no charge has been  imposed - and the damage which it considers to be 
outside the fair wear  and tear guidelines.  So I think V has carried out a thorough  inspection  
and reached a fair and reasonable conclusion. Having seen the photographs  Ive reached 
the same  view.
Mr M doesnt think he should pay for the rust/corrosion which he feels  relates to the material 
used by the manufacturer. He says he didnt cause or contribute to this damage - which  he 
blames on the weather. But Im afraid I dont agree with this analysis.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement make  clear that damage outside fair wear  and 
tear is chargeable.  And Mr M is responsible to PSA for any such  damage - however it is 
caused - which  is present  when the vehicle  is returned. It was open to Mr M to have any 
damage repaired prior to the vehicle being  returned - a fact that was mentioned  in a letter  
sent by PSA regarding the termination process. As he didnt do so I cant say PSA was 
unfair in applying the charges for this aspect.
As PSA accepts an additional charge of a monthly  payment was imposed in error  I neednt 
comment further upon this - other  than to formally  require PSA to remove it.
Whilst I know my decision will disappoint Mr M, I shant be asking PSA to waive  any further  
charges.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint but only in part.
I now require PSA Finance UK Limited - if it has not already done so - to remove one 
monthly payment  from the total of charges it applied following the voluntary termination of 
this agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6528114