K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited (Admiral) is responsible  for 
mishandling his home emergency insurance.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints against  insurance 
companies and other regulated financial firms. Where a complaint is about a claim under  an 
insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurance  company that was 
responsible for dealing  with the claim.
In our final decision we name that insurance  company  but we dont name any other  party. 
Where I refer to Admiral I include  its authorised contractors and others  insofar as I hold 
Admiral responsible for their actions.
With effect from 14 February 2018 Mr S renewed his boiler  emergency  cover and home 
emergency cover. Admiral  was the insurance  company responsible  for dealing  with claims.
Mr Ss family included his wife and two young  children. When he had a problem with his 
central heating boiler in November 2018,  Mr S called Admiral for help.  Its authorised 
contractor sent an engineer  who said the boiler was in working order.
After another  visit on 8 January 2019, Mr S received the authorised  contractors invoice 
dated 3 December 2018 for £133.51 for a call-out charge.
He complained and Admiral  sent a final response dated 24 January 2019.
On about 31 January 2019 the boiler broke down. Mr S bought three oil-filled  radiators for 
£105.00 to heat the home. He paid a private plumber £300.00  to fix his boiler.
Mr S brought his complaint to us in February  2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He didnt 
recommend that Admiral  should reimburse Mr S for the private plumber  because  he was 
unable to provide  a report to confirm what works were  actually  completed.
The investigator didnt  recommend that Admiral should reimburse Mr S for the full cost of the 
radiators. But he thought that Admiral  should pay him £50.00  for the purchase as it was 
within the policy terms and was also mentioned during the call in November  2018.
The investigator recommended  that Admiral should  waive the call-out fee, as there was a 
clear leak which occurred  again within 24 hours.  
The investigator recommended  that Admiral should:
1.pay Mr S a total of £50.00; and 
2.waive the call-out charge.
Ref: DRN65626782my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Admiral on 22 April 2020. I summarise my findings:
I hadnt been persuaded that the invoice for £133.51 was in line with the policy terms. 
£100.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited  to:
1.not ask Mr S for payment of £133.51  or any other sum in relation to the visit in 
November 2018; and
2.tell its authorised contractor not to do so; and 
3.pay Mr S £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Neither Mr S nor Admiral  has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr S had both boiler emergency  cover and home emergency cover.  Each included  the 
following terms:
What is covered  
Complete failure  or breakdown of your primary heating/hot water  system, resulting in 
no hot water  and/or heating. We will also cover you for:
i. A loss of water pressure  within a boiler due to a fault;
ii. A water leak from the boiler/heating system
Temporary heating
If you have no heating  and a part needs  to be ordered  following the engineers first 
visit, or if we are unable  to repair the boiler/heating system, you have the option  to 
purchase heaters  up to a combined value  of £50 including VAT on a reimbursement 
basis. These heaters  are yours to keep .
Ive added the underlining to show that  in addition to cover  for a complete boiler 
breakdown - there was cover for a water  leak.
The boiler emergency cover and the home emergency cover  each excluded the following:
Boilers  which are still working, but you suspect may be about to break down (e.g. 
where a noise has developed) or where  the fault is not apparent  to our authorised  
contractor
Ref: DRN65626783As there was cover for a water leak in addition to a complete boiler  breakdown, I dont think  
the above term excluded water  leaks  to boilers  that were still working. And I find it implicit 
that the authorised contractor must spend  time on an inspection before ruling out a fault as 
not apparent.
The boiler emergency cover and the home emergency cover  each had a limit of two claims 
up to £500.00  each. There was a term about a financial  contribution from the policyholder  if 
a repair  was to cost more than £500.00. 
But I havent seen  any term about  a financial contribution  from the policyholder if there was a 
call-out for a fault which was not apparent to the authorised contractor.
Admiral says there was a call-out in June 2018.  But I havent seen any report of such a visit.
When he contacted  Admiral in November 2018,  Mr S said his boiler had a water  leak. I 
accept that this was correct. He also mentioned high pressure. And he told Admiral that he 
had switched the boiler off.
From the call recording, I find that Admiral said the following:
 
I need  to make you aware, should the contractor return  and discover there is no 
policy cover,  due to any policy exclusions,  or if any information provided in this call is 
incorrect, you will be charged a call-out  charge and for any repairs you instruct them  
to carry out.  Should no one be home  when the contractor attends  you will be 
charged for the call-out  fee.  
Im not persuaded that this statement was based  on any of the policy terms.
Admirals engineer switched the boiler  back on. His report was as follows:
Boiler working on arrival.  No leaks visible. Boiler not worked on, visual  inspection  
only.  
Later Mr S sent us photographs of a boiler  in a room with no plaster on the brick  walls and 
no covering to the concrete floor. It looks like a shed  rather than a habitable room. The 
photographs show a significant escape of water. I cant say that the escape of water created 
a risk to health or a risk of damage to the home or made it uninhabitable.
I find that the photographs  confirm  that there was a leak before and after the visit. So I 
consider that Admiral  shouldve done more  to investigate and repair  that leak.  But, from what 
Mr S has said, the boiler was working  from 25 November 2018. After that visit in November 
2018 theres no evidence that anything happened  with the boiler until January 2019.
Ive seen a job report dated 8 January 2019.  It includes the following:
Boiler operating correctly  and no leaks visible  when  left property however can not 
guarantee permanent fix as boiler  requires full service.
But again  I find that the photographs confirm that there was a leak before and after the visit. 
So I consider that Admiral  shouldve done  more to investigate  and repair that leak. I dont 
Ref: DRN65626784doubt that Admirals  failure to do so caused  Mr S some inconvenience and some distress  
about what was going wrong with his boiler  during some very cold weather.
The final response  letter dated 24 January 2019 contained a section about fraud, 
misrepresentation and non-disclosure  without alleging  any. I find that inappropriate.  I dont 
doubt that it caused Mr S some upset.  
Overall I consider that £100.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
I accept that the boiler broke  down  on about  31 January 2019. And Ive seen evidence  that 
Mr S paid the private plumber for a repair on 1 February 2019. But theres no evidence that 
he contacted Admiral about  the breakdown on about 31 January 2019.  
The only evidence about what  was wrong  with the boiler is a mention (in a text) of a gas 
valve. Theres no evidence that this was connected to the earlier leak of water.  So Mr S is 
right not to be pursuing his claim for reimbursement of the £300.00.
Mr S says he bought  the radiator heaters on 31 January 2019. Ive seen a receipt including 
the cost of £105.00. But he hadnt  contacted Admiral and he cant have needed the heaters 
for more than a day or so. Therefore  unlike  the investigator  I dont  find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  Admiral to reimburse him anything for the heaters he bought.
I havent been persuaded that the invoice for £133.51 was in line with the policy terms. So I 
find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral not to ask Mr S for payment of that invoice  and 
to tell its authorised  contractor not to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited to:
1.not ask Mr S for payment of £133.51  or any other sum in relation to the visit in 
November 2018; and
2.tell its authorised contractor not to do so; and 
3.pay Mr S £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.  
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6562678