K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited turned down a claim he made on 
his gadget insurance policy.
background
In February 2019  Mr O made a claim on his gadget insurance policy  for a phone and a 
laptop stolen from his car. Mr O says he left the phone and laptop on the backseat of his car 
and left clothes  on top to cover them. But a rear window of his car was broken and the 
phone and laptop were taken. Assurant  turned down the claim as it said Mr O hadnt taken 
care of his devices.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she felt Assurant had acted  reasonably in 
turning down the claim. Mr O didnt agree so the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I sympathise with Mr O and he has been  the victim of a crime, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. Ill explain why below.
Mr Os policy  didnt cover  theft where he had knowingly put the device at risk or had not 
taken care of it. If he had to leave  the device the policy said it should be locked away  out of 
sight or, if this wasnt possible, concealed  out of sight in a safe place.
Mr O says he left the laptop and phone on the backseat of his car and that he left clothes on 
top to cover  them. So it seems clear  he knew there  was some  risk of theft, as he used 
clothes to cover the items.
But I dont think the steps Mr O took were sufficient to avoid the risk of theft. Mr O says he 
couldnt put the items in the boot of the car, as it was full. But I think  he could still have done 
more to make sure they were completely out of sight. And this wouldve  reduced the 
likelihood of them being  stolen.
I dont think the backseat  would be considered a safe place,  as it would be visible through a 
number of the windows of the car. And I dont think  putting clothes  over the items  is enough  
to make the backseat  a safe place.  I also think its possible the items  were still visible in 
some way under the clothes, particularly as a rear window close  to the items was broken to 
gain access to the car.
So I think Mr O knew there was some risk of the items being stolen by leaving them on the 
backseat of his car, but he took that risk anyway. And, considering all the circumstances of 
the claim,  I dont think Assurant has acted unreasonably in turning it down.
Ref: DRN63861522my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6386152