K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that esure Insurance Limited wont pay to replace his wall under his home 
insurance policy.
background
Mr T was insured under his esure policy for his buildings.  Following  bad weather in March 
his wall fell down. He claimed on his home insurance policy.
Esure sent a surveyor  to visit the property. Following his inspection  the surveyor  thought that 
the reason for the wall collapsing was gradual damage and poor workmanship, which  are 
both excluded from the policy. Originally  esure decided to decline the claim. 
The surveyor said there were insufficient pillars  to support the length  of wall and there was a 
gradual process of loss due to root damage  and movement over a period of time. Mr T said 
the roots were  very small and his wall was in perfect  condition. The wall was ten years old.
Mr T is unhappy  that the surveyor relied on photos  provided by him in order  to make his 
assessment that the wall was not built with enough  pillars.
Although the estimate of work from the surveyor was £2,873.59, esure have calculated the 
cost of replacing the wall at £2,307.20.  The excess was £300. Due to the weather conditions 
esure later agreed to pay 50% of the claim as a gesture of goodwill. Esures offer was 
£853.60.
Mr T said he had three quotes  from builders  for rebuilding his wall and the cheapest was 
£5,886.00. He says he cannot  replace the wall with what  esure  are proposing  to pay out. 
Mr T complained to esure  who said that according to the surveyor the damage  to the wall 
wasnt caused by the storm but was due to the bad workmanship and gradual damage. It 
declined the claim. 
Mr T complained to our service. Our investigator  did not uphold the complaint. He relied on 
the report by the surveyor  to decide  that esure  were right to decline the claim. 
Since the view was written Mr T has got a quote  for £5005.00 to rebuild his wall.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts policy has a general exclusion for loss or damage caused by faulty  workmanship  or 
that happens gradually over time.  Esure are relying on this as well as the surveyors report to 
decline the claim. 
In order to decide this complaint I must consider whether esure acted fairly in relying on 
these clauses.
When dealing with storm damage in building insurance cases  our approach is to consider 
three issues: was there a storm  ?; is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes? and were the storm conditions the main  cause  for the damage.
Ref: DRN68755442There is no dispute that there was a storm. But, esures surveyor  said the damage  to the 
wall was not caused by the storm. 
In order for the claim to be paid Mr T would need to show that the main  reason for the wall 
falling was due to the storm  and not because of bad workmanship or gradual damage. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr T, because his wall fell down. Mr T has said that the 
wall was in good  condition and it was ten years old. Unfortunately the surveyors  report 
contradicts Mr Ts claim that the wall was in good condition.
During our investigation Mr T was asked to provide any evidence  to us to support his view 
that the wall was in good condition. Mr T has said two things. Firstly  he has said that there  
was a storm. This has never been  disputed.
Secondly Mr T has said that his neighbours wall which  is a nine inch double  skinned brick 
wall, suffered movement in the storm. I think Mr T is saying the storm was substantial  
enough to cause his neighbours wall to move. So I think that the damage caused to Mr Ts 
wall is consistent with damage that a storm could cause. 
But there is no evidence  that the storm was the main cause for the damage to Mr Ts wall. 
There is evidence to support the view that the condition of the wall was the reason  for the 
damage. As there is no other evidence supporting Mr Ts view that his wall was in good 
condition or giving a different viewpoint to that of the surveyor I must be guided  by his expert  
report. 
Based on his evidence I find it more  likely  than not that esure  acted fairly  and reasonably in 
declining Mr Ts claim.
Mr T has given an example of how esure might deal with a claim for his roof blowing off. I 
can only look at the case before  me, I cant look at how esure would decide another  potential 
claim.
Esure offered to pay 50% of the value of the claim as a gesture of goodwill. I know  Mr T is 
unhappy that esure have reduced  this to £853.60. As this is a gesture of goodwill on the part 
of esure  I am not able to require them to increase this amount.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint.
I make  no award against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6875544