K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Health Shield Friendly Society  Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably 
by declining  his claim under  his healthcare cash plan policy.  He wants  a confirmation  that 
Health Shield will pay all of his claims,  both in the past and in the future, and compensation 
for his inconvenience.
background
Mr O is the policy holder of a healthcare  cash plan taken  out by his employer with Health 
Shield; under the terms and conditions,  it was designed to refund Mr Os payments to 
providers for a variety  of healthcare  and wellbeing benefits up to a yearly cost cap. Mr O 
regularly needed  physiotherapy  treatment, which included sports massage; these costs were  
refunded between January 2017  and April 2018  as part of the yearly allowance  towards 
physio and chiropody  costs. 
But in April 2018,  Health  Shield said Mr Os claims in relation to sports massage fell under 
the health and wellbeing benefit, which had been exceeded for that year.  Health Shield 
also said that Mr Os therapist didnt have  the required qualifications to carry out a sports 
massage refundable under the terms of the policy. Mr O also felt that Health Shield was 
being pedantic  about some of his other claims, by asking for more  information from the 
healthcare provider, but not chasing it up and then rejecting his claim. The maximum 
available benefit  for claims under the health and wellbeing  benefit  is lower  than the 
maximum available under the physio and chiropody allowance.
Mr O complained to Health Shield, saying that the policy  didnt say that a physiotherapist 
couldnt carry out a sports massage as part of physiotherapy under the physio and 
chiropody allowance (as opposed to the health and wellbeing allowance). Health Shield said 
that it had paid for the sports massages as a gesture of goodwill, despite  its view that the 
provider didnt have  the required qualification  to provide the sports massages, and had told 
Mr O that in future he needed  to get a sports massage from an acceptable provider as it was 
viewed as part of the health and wellbeing allowance, not physio and chiropody.  Health 
Shield noted that sports  massage was specifically listed as part of the health and wellbeing 
allowance within the policy. 
Health Shield also said that it wasnt  possible for it to chase up required information  for every 
claim due to the workload  involved. Health Shield said that some  of Mr Os claims didnt  
contain the information which it had stated would be required in order to successfully make  a 
claim, which was why it asked for more information. 
Mr O complained to us, saying that sports massage was part of physiotherapy and provided  
evidence from his provider that the sports massage  was part of a wider  treatment program.  
The investigators view was that Health Shield wasnt at fault. The policy treated sports  
massage as separate to physiotherapy and placed  them into different  allowances. She 
thought that it was fair and reasonable for Health Shield to apply the rules for each 
allowance to the two types  of treatment; this meant  the provider had to have the accepted 
qualification for each  type and for sports massages,  Mr Os chosen provider didnt. The 
investigator also said that the policy  set out clearly  the required information  when making  a 
claim and it wasnt unfair to ask the consumer to get the information.
Ref: DRN66297042Mr O disagreed. He said sports massage wasnt  different  to physiotherapy and, when  not 
carried out recreationally, it should be dealt with under the physio  and chiropody  allowance. 
Mr O also said if there  was any ambiguity  within a contract, it should be interpreted in the 
favour of the consumer,  and the policy didnt  clearly say sports massage was not under the 
physio and chiropody allowance. He also said the previous accepted  claims meant 
Health Shield had to accept his claims now.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Health Shield has a responsibility  to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. There are 
two parts  to Mr Os complaint; the issue about  the treatment of sports massage claims and 
the issue about Health Shields approach when further information is required.
Dealing first with the issue of sports massage, I dont think  the policy  is unclear or 
ambiguous. It specifically refers to sports  massage under the health and wellbeing  
allowance. Sports  massage  isnt referred  to within the physiotherapy section. The point is 
further underscored by the fact that different  qualifications are required under the policy  for 
the provider to carry out a successful claim for sports massage, compared to physiotherapy. 
I can understand Mr Os point that physiotherapy is a wider area of treatment which can 
include massage,  but sports massage is a particular type of massage and has been  
specifically mentioned within the health and wellbeing  section of the policy.
Insurers are able to set out what is and isnt included within a policy and apply the terms and 
conditions, provided  they act fairly  and reasonably. Health Shield set out the position  clearly 
in the policy, and further made a payment even though the provider didnt  meet its 
requirements under the section of the policy which covered sports massages (and told Mr O 
to ensure that the requirements were met in the future).  I think  that was fair and reasonable.
Mr O says that Health Shield paid earlier claims and should continue  to do so. But what 
happened is relevant  the receipts didnt set out clearly  what treatment had been given. 
Health Shield spoke to the provider to establish  the position  and was told most of the 
treatment was physiotherapy, but two claims were  for sports  massage. It is these two claims 
that were then considered, and the rule about the qualification waived (and reiterated to 
Mr O). The maximum allowance then was applied, which is lower that the physio and 
chiropody allowance.  I think this was fair and reasonable, given the terms and conditions  of 
the policy, and when combined  with the reminder of what was required of Mr O when 
submitting a claim.
Mr O also felt Health Shield was generally being  difficult about his claims. But from the 
evidence available  to me, the further information it required was information that 
Health Shield had told their customers theyd need  to submit.  So it was fair and reasonable 
to ask for it. And I dont think it is reasonable to expect Health Shield to keep  chasing  
information when  theyd clearly explained to Mr O what  information was needed and the 
format it needed  to be in. 
Ref: DRN66297043my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision before 
26 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6629704