K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that AFX Markets Limited  unfairly  voided some of the trades he had placed 
on his two Contracts for Difference  (CFD) trading accounts.  
background
Between 19:06 and 19:07 on 23 May 2018,  Mr P opened 14 trades in the EUR/TRY 
currency pair (Euro  / Turkish Lira) on AFXs  platform on one of his accounts and 12 trades  in 
a second account. At around  the same time, the Turkish  Central  Bank (TCB) made  an 
announcement which caused  significant  volatility in the market  for this particular currency 
pair. 
The trades Mr P placed were short trades   in other  words he would make money if the 
value of the Euro versus  the Turkish Lira went down. These  short trades were opened 
between 19:06:11  and 19:07:21. Mr P closed each  of these trades between 19:23:21 and 
19:23:30. 
All the short trades had the same  opening price of 5.60566 on account 49079  and 5.60571 
on account 48423. Three long trades were opened  at 19:06:11and 19:06:14   these were all 
opened with the same opening price of 5.62451.  And these trades were all closed a few 
seconds later (at 19:06:17, 19:06:18  and 19:06:19) at the same closing price  of 5.60566. 
These three  trades made losses  of around £60. 
AFX decided  to void the above short trades,  so Mr P complained.  AFX looked into his 
complaint, but thought it had acted  in line with its terms. In short,  it explained that its platform  
was experiencing a price freeze  at the time these trades were placed and this was evident 
from the fact that he had opened several  trades  all at the same opening price. It said that it 
considered these prices  were manifest errors, and its terms allowed it to void his trades as a 
result. It didnt void the earlier  three  trades as they were placed prior to the price freeze.
Mr P didnt agree, and complained to this service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint but didnt  think it should  be upheld. He agreed that there  was clearly an issue  with 
the pricing information AFX was receiving  at the time, and concluded that AFX had acted in 
line with its terms by voiding  the trades.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In short,  he 
said:
He said the price wasnt actually frozen  the low liquidity at the time caused spreads 
in this currency pair to widen, and this is why the bid/offer prices  stayed the same  for 
a period of time.  
He said that AFX should have adjusted his trades with fair market prices  so it wasnt 
fair that it cancelled  his trades altogether. 
He said other brokers executed  the same trades at comparable prices  and not simply 
void trades just by saying there was a "system error". 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider.
Ref: DRN68250462my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from the investigators conclusions. 
Id like to reassure Mr P that Ive very carefully  considered the points he has made 
throughout the complaint,  and in response  to the investigators view. I understand he feels 
very strongly  that it was unfair to void his trades and that, at the very least,  AFX should  
reprice the trades according to what it considers were legitimate  prices at the time. 
The starting point  in deciding Mr Ps complaint  is his agreement  with AFX. And in particular, 
the clause in his agreement which in principle allowed AFX to take the action that it did. 
Clause 5.13 says:
The parties acknowledge that errors  may occur in the Prices quoted by AFX Capital 
Markets Ltd to AFX UK due to internet or connectivity failures  or delays, price  feed mistakes 
or otherwise resulting  in quoted Prices materially  deviating from market rates. In such 
circumstances, [] neither the Client nor AFX Capital  Markets Ltd will be bound by any 
Contract which purports to have been  made  (whether or not confirmed by AFX Capital  
Markets Ltd) at a Price which was, or ought  reasonably to have been, known to either  the 
Client or AFX Capital  Markets Ltd to be materially incorrect at the time the Contract was 
entered into.
Mr P has made a number  of submissions around  why he says its possible for bid/offer 
prices to stay the same  as they did on the evening in question.  In particular, he has said that 
the lack of liquidity in the market caused the spread to widen to such  an extent  that it 
appeared as if the bid and offer prices werent moving. 
I dont dispute  that its possible for this to happen.  But I think  it would be extremely unusual 
for such a wide spread  to persist for around a minute. In addition,  I think  it would be 
especially unusual for a firm to keep a bid price  so high that it guaranteed any short trades  
would be immediately profitable given the actual prices being  traded in the underlying  
market. I think  in circumstances where it was clear the price  was dropping, the wide spread 
doesnt account for such manifestly incorrect prices. 
But in any event, AFX has explained that the issue  it was experiencing wasnt  to do with the 
spread  it was to do with its own platform and an issue with the prices it was able to quote. 
It has provided other pricing evidence which demonstrates that the prices  it was receiving 
were clearly not in line with the underlying market. I found this evidence persuasive.  
And so in these  circumstances, I think its equally  fair for AFX to have taken  action on the 
trades which were placed on these  clearly incorrect prices. I acknowledge that AFXs terms 
do allow it a certain amount of discretion in deciding whether to void or reprice relevant 
trades. So Ive considered  whether  it has applied  its terms fairly in Mr Ps case.  
In deciding this, in my view, the key question  is whether Mr P knew, or shouldve known, that 
the price he was trading on was manifestly  wrong.  I think this is key because it goes to the 
heart of his trading relationship with AFX  if a price  is obviously wrong and doesnt  reflect  
where that underlying market is trading, it could skew the risk and reward  ratio unfairly in 
favour of the investor. It means that an investor could open a trade  and essentially make  an 
immediate, risk-free, profit. 
Ref: DRN68250463In Mr Ps case, I think it was clear,  or shouldve  been clear, that the prices AFX was quoting 
were clearly not in line with the underlying market  and the fact that they werent moving at 
all for such  a period  of time only made that more  obvious. 
I say this because  at the time, it was widely reported  that the Turkish Lira was strengthening 
against the Euro and other currencies, and so the EUR/TRY price  was dropping.  But AFXs 
platform was still quoting  the same price.  Mr P was clearly aware of what was happening in 
the market. And Im persuaded he knew, or shouldve known, that the prices he was trading 
at werent correct and were likely  the result of an error on AFXs  platform.  So Im satisfied 
that, as a result, he unfairly profited  from an error on AFXs platform and, in the particular 
circumstances of his case, it follows that I consider AFXs actions were fair and reasonable 
when it voided  his trades. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6825046