K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service  under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr K had insurance branded with the name  of a home assistance company. Aviva was the 
insurer responsible  for dealing  with claims.  Where  I refer to Aviva  or the insurer  I include the 
home assistance company, its electricians and any others for whose actions I hold Aviva 
responsible.
The policy covered electrical home emergencies. Mr K called for help with an electrical  fault. 
He complained that the insurer told him to get a new isolator   but then left him with no 
working lights or central heating boiler  for about  six days.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
business handled Mr Ks claim in line with the terms and conditions for his policy .
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excluded systems that had not been  installed, serviced  or maintained regularly 
according to British Standards and/or manufacturers instructions. And the policy didnt cover 
any part of the electrical wiring  where completing a repair would result in a breach of the 
current electrical wiring regulations and electrical safety standard.
Mr K had a new central heating boiler  installed in January 2017. He has sent us the 
documents. They include a certificate from an electrician. He noted that the distribution 
board wasnt  to current regulations.
As I understand it, an isolator  is a switch to turn off power for service  or maintenance. When 
Mr K called his insurer for help in November 2017, the insurer  sent an electrician. He told 
Mr K at the outset that he would need to have an isolator switch fitted before any further 
work could  take place.  
I find it likely  that an isolator  is a requirement of the current electrical wiring regulations  and 
electrical safety standard. In any event  I dont find that the insurer  treated Mr K unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining to fit a new distribution  board  until someone else had fitted  an 
isolator.
The cost of the isolator wasnt covered  by the policy. I see no basis on which it could  be fair 
and reasonable for the insurer  to reimburse  Mr K for the cost of the isolator.
Mr K got an isolator fitted. I think this was done by the electricity distribution  company.
Ref: DRN66888342The following  day the insurers  electrician fitted a new board. I think that was reasonable as 
a good place to start trying to resolve  the fault Mr K had reported.
But the insurers electrician didnt resolve  the fault. And he left Mr K and his family  with no 
working circuits except  a few sockets.  In particular, the electrician left Mr K without power to 
run his central heating  boiler. I accept that Mr K and his family were  without central  heating  
and hot water for nearly  a week  in November 2017.
So I can see why Mr K was disappointed and questioned  the insurers  electricians attitude.
And Mr K had to engage his own electrician. Mr K says his electrician only repaired a fault 
with the circuit for the cooker. He has sent us his electricians certificate.
But that certificate says:
Installed new Cooker  Circuit
Rectified Ring Main fault
So I dont  share  Mr Ks view that this indicates  only one fault. In my view the certificate  
shows that there were  faults with the cooker circuit and a ring main. 
His electrician had also re-wired the boiler, according to what Mr K told our investigator in 
December 2018.
And the report of the insurers electrician said Mr K had messed around with the cooker 
and ring circuits. The insurers electrician said those circuits wiring was in poor condition. 
That was supported by some  photographs.  And the insurers electrician  had said the boiler  
had been installed  without the protection of rcd (residual current  device).
Mr K has said that the insurers electricians  report contained things that werent  faults or 
were assumptions, and he never  checked the wiring  upstairs. But I dont think Mr Ks 
criticisms are supported by his own electricians  report.
I have to keep  in mind  the policy terms that excluded cover  for badly-installed wiring or 
repairs in breach of current regulations.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  the insurer to pay Mr K compensation for 
the inconvenience while his electrician upgraded the wiring.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to do anything further in response to 
Mr Ks complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I do not 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Ref: DRN66888343Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6688834