K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1997. Miss T says Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
FICL has taken responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ts case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss T says that she didnt know that the PPI was optional  and had she known this she 
wouldnt have taken  it out. Our adjudicator  said that as the policy  was sold so long ago there 
wasnt enough information to say that the policy wasnt presented  as optional to Miss T  
and that they couldnt  uphold her complaint for this reason. However, Ive also seen that 
Miss T applied for her store card in 1996  and she didnt take out PPI until over two months  
later in 1997. This suggests the policy was sold to her over the phone. And as shes had the 
card for some time before she took out the PPI, I think  she wouldve known that she had a 
choice in taking  out the policy. But I can understand why she may not remember this as it 
was a long time ago. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss T so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss T got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss T has said, including what shes said about having  good 
sick pay from her employer at the time she couldve used to make her repayments.  But the 
PPI couldve paid out on top of her existing cover, and for longer  than she says she wouldve 
received full pay for. So this point doesnt change my decision,  and for the reasons set out 
above, I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Ref: DRN67068582Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6706858