K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt accept a claim he made under 
his motor insurance policy.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. I 
explained why I didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong in not accepting  Mr Ts claim.
I also invited Mr T and Admiral to let me have any final submissions they wanted  me to 
consider by 17 July 2019, before I made  my final decision. However, neither party  
responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has said they disagree  with my provisional decision or made any further 
comments for me to consider. So I find no grounds on which  to depart  from the conclusions  I 
set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in my provisional decision,  my final decision is 
that I dont  uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61580372copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr T is unhappy Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited didnt accept  a claim he made under his motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Ts car was stolen from his farm yard and he made a claim under his car insurance.
Admiral turned down the claim as they say the car was stolen using a key that was left inside the car 
and so the thief was able to access the car and drive it away. Admiral  explained this is excluded  
under the terms  and conditions  of Mr Ts policy.
Mr T felt his claim should be paid and explained that the farm yard is for authorised personnel only.  
His son, who was present at the yard on the day of the theft, assumed it would be safe to leave the 
vehicle with the keys inside given its location and the fact that there were  other family  members 
present on site too. Mr Ts son is a named driver on the policy.
Our adjudicator looked  into Mr Ts concerns and upheld his complaint.  He thought  that Mr T had 
parked his car on private property, in what he considered a secure location  and a long way from the 
public road.  He also said that he didnt  think the theft was prompted  by a lack of care by Mr T. But 
Admiral didnt agree.  They said regardless  of where the car was parked,  the exclusion  in the terms 
and conditions still applies. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the key facts document Admiral  sent to Mr T when he took out his insurance  
policy. On the first page, it includes a term which  says:
You will not be covered for any claims  if your vehicle is left unlocked or if you leave the keys in the 
vehicle while unattended.  See Your Van Insurance Guide General Condition (3), where applicable.
Ive looked at General Condition  (3) in the policy  document. I can see it says:
You or any person  covered  by the policy must remove the keys or secure any device that allows 
access to your vehicle, if it is left unattended.
Mr Ts son told us the thief was able to access the car because  it was left unlocked, for around an 
hour, with the key in the centre  area of the inside  of the car and that it may have been visible to the 
thief.
Whilst I appreciate  Mr T is extremely upset that his car was stolen whilst on private land, I think  
Admiral have acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. I say this because  the terms 
clearly state that Mr T wont be covered for any claim  made  where the car was left unlocked,  
unattended and the keys have remained in the car  which is what has been confirmed happened in 
this case.
Mr T says he believes this theft was premeditated  and even  if the car didnt have the keys inside, the 
theft still wouldve happened. Its possible that this could  have been the case, but the fact remains  that 
when the car was left unattended, it was also left unlocked with the keys inside. As a result of this, it 
made the theft easier. I say this because the thief was less likely to be disturbed if they didnt  need to 
use any tools  in order to get inside the car which  couldve alerted Mr T and other members of his 
family who were  around at the time.
Ref: DRN61580373I note Mr Ts comment that it wasnt unreasonable to think the car was safe given it was on private  
land with other  people around. However,  the policy  term doesnt account for the car being in a safe 
place and for others being in the same vicinity as the car. Based on this, I dont think Admiral have 
acted unreasonably  in declining Mr Ts claim.
Admiral have given me information to show me the key facts document were  sent to Mr T. And Ive 
got no reason to believe Mr T didnt  receive this document. Therefore, I think Mr T ought to have 
reasonably known what  the policy  excluded. However, even if this wasnt the case, Im not persuaded  
Mr T wouldve acted any differently in any event,  as he told us he thought the car was safe as it was 
on private land.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6158037