K820x#14Complaint 
Mr S complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited debited his account with a series of card 
payments totalling  £74.95 which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.  Some  of 
these payments have  been refunded through the chargeback  process, so £44.97  remains in 
dispute. 
Background
In May 2018  Mr S contacted Vanquis  to dispute five monthly payments of £14.99.  These 
payments were made  to a third party business that provides credit history reports, by way of 
a continuous payment  authority. Vanquis  provided a refund and got in touch with the third 
party business to request  a chargeback.  
In July 2018 the third party business disputed three of the five requests  for a refund via 
chargeback, amounting to £44.97. They provided evidence that an account had been set up 
in Mr Ss name  and using  his details. Vanquis said given  this, they couldnt see what  benefit 
a third party would gain by accessing  and viewing Mr Ss personal  credit reports, so 
reapplied the £44.97 to his credit card account.  
Mr S was also unhappy with the customer service provided by Vanquis whilst he was 
disputing these transactions and raising  this complaint. Vanquis agreed Mr S hadnt always  
received the level of customer service they would  expect so offered  £75 in total to put things 
right. 
Mr S was unhappy with this resolution, so he came  to our service. Our investigator  looked 
into things and recommended that Vanquis didnt need to do anything to put things right. He 
didnt think it was likely that another person would have been able to access  Mr Ss personal 
details and credit card details and would use these to sign up for a service  that would  only 
benefit Mr S. So he felt on balance it was most likely Mr S signed up to the website and 
authorised the transactions. He also felt the third party business website was suitably clear 
as to the fact payments would be made, when they would  be taken, the amount they would 
be for and what service would be provided in line with guidance from the Office of Fair 
Trading. 
Mr S didnt agree  he continued to dispute the payments. He felt if he had authorised them  
he wouldnt  have received a partial  refund and was still unhappy with the resolution 
regarding the customer service he received. Because Mr S disagreed,  it has come to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Vanquis  can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that he authorised them himself. Having reviewed the 
evidence Im satisfied that Mr Ss genuine  credit card details including the CVV code  were  
entered to enter into a continuous payment authority  with the third party  business.  This only 
needs to be entered once but provides  sufficient  authentication for agreed future payments. 
Ref: DRN68438552But according to the relevant regulations, this alone is insufficient to enable Vanquis to hold 
him liable. So I need to consider whether I think the evidence shows it is more likely than not 
that he consented to the payments being  made. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I think its reasonable for Vanquis to conclude  that Mr S 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed transactions were made  using Mr Ss genuine card details, but Mr S 
hasnt told us the card was ever out of his possession. Whilst I accept its possible,  
Im not persuaded its the most  likely explanation  here that an unknown person took 
Mr Ss card and then returned it to him without him noticing.
I say this because  it also seems unusual that an unknown person would return  the 
card after taking  his details, sign up to a service  that would allow  them to see Mr Ss 
credit history,  and make no further  attempts to use the card details. 
Further, the details  used to set up the account  with the third party  business  including  
name, address,  date of birth and email address match those held by Vanquis  and 
those Mr S provided  to this service. I find it unlikely  that an unknown third party would 
have been able to access all of these details.  It would also be unusual  for an 
unknown third party to use all of Mr Ss correct details to view his credit history.  I 
cannot see how this would benefit anyone  other  than Mr S. It would  also risk alerting 
Mr S to any fraudulent  activity if the third party business  contacted  him. 
Mr S feels the partial refund supports his suggestion that he didnt make  these  
payments. However, the partial refund  through the chargeback process was due to 
the third party  business only challenging three of the five payments. This doesnt 
support or undermine  Vanquis holding Mr S liable for these payments and so doesnt  
impact my thinking  on the matter.  
As I am satisfied that it is most likely  Mr S authorised these payments, Ive considered 
whether the third party business acted in line with the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT)  
Guidelines relating to continuous payment authorities. This says that the website needs to 
be clear that payment would be taken from Mr Ss card, how much that payment would be 
and when that payment would be taken. Having reviewed this evidence, I think the third 
party website was sufficiently clear and acted within the OFT guidelines. 
Having reviewed the customer service provided  by Vanquis I do agree there  were  some 
shortcomings, but I feel the offer of £75 is appropriate to address these. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6843855