K820x#14Complaint
Mrs P complains that RCI Financial Services Limited  refused  to let her reject a faulty car.
Background
In March 2017 Mrs P acquired a new car funded by a hire purchase agreement with RCI. 
She encountered a number of issues in the following months, namely:
Suspension faults
Gearbox crunching  noises
Bluetooth working poorly on the car including intermittent charging
Petrol consumption concerns
Dashboard rattle
Brake failure light
Hillside assist system failing
Steering lock not working
Poor level of service  provided by the dealer.
She complained to RCI and it spoke to the dealer. It said that the suspension  had been  
repaired under  warranty and it was unable to identify any other faults. As such  RCI rejected 
her complaint. She brought the matter  to this service  and it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
He noted Mrs P had said she first took the car back in the summer  of 2017. The dealer had 
no record of this and Mrs P couldnt  recall when she had first been to the dealer. Its records  
showed a visit in December and two further ones in March  2018. He therefore concluded 
that he couldnt say the matter had been raised within  six months and so he considered  that 
the burden of proof lay with Mrs P.
He considered each of the issues Mrs P had raised and said that the only fault which the 
dealer had identified had been with the suspension  and this had been repaired under 
warranty in March 2018.
He said he believed the other  issues were  either  characteristics of the car or no fault could 
be identified. He went through  each  issue separately and for the sake of brevity I wont 
repeat his comments here. He also explained  the RCI couldnt be held responsible  for the 
level of service provided by the dealer. He said that if Mrs P could provide independent 
evidence of faults which were present at the point of sale he would revisit his opinion.
Mrs P didnt agree and said she had expected trouble free motoring after buying  a new car. 
She considered the car was unfit for purpose. She also wondered why the adjudicator hadnt 
found a compromise  solution.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN67412712The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
RCI is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Firstly, I will deal with the issue of the alleged poor service provided  by the dealer. This 
complaint is against  RCI and it isnt responsible for the service offered  by the dealer. Quite  
simply my powers only allow me to consider if the car was fit for purpose at the point of sale.
I appreciate Mrs P says she first raised concerns in the summer of 2017, but she says this 
was about the poor miles per gallon and the Bluetooth not performing as well as expected. 
Without commenting on the merits of these issues in detail I dont consider either of them are 
such that would allow me to conclude that the car wasnt fit for purpose.  She raised the other  
more substantive issues in December 2017, outside  six months and that means  the onus is 
on her to show that the car wasnt satisfactory  at the point of sale.
The dealer  has accepted  there was a fault with the suspension and it has repaired this under 
the cars  warranty and at no cost to Mrs P. It was entitled to do so and I dont believe that 
fault has reappeared. 
The other faults Mrs P has listed have  all been disputed  by the dealer. I don't have an 
independent report  and so I have to make a decision based  on the information which has 
been put before me. Several of the issues  are deemed to be characteristic of the car such  as 
the noise made when  changing gear and the vibration  of part of the dashboard. I can see 
that such matters would be of concern on a new car and I can understand Mrs Ps 
disappointment. However, I cannot  say with any certainty that they are faults or they are of 
such a nature that would  allow me to order RCI to let her reject  the car.
Other issues  have not been identified as faulty  by the dealer. Again I cannot say if those 
conclusions are fair. However,  I have noted that RCI has told this service that it could help 
arrange another appointment/opinion from another approved repairer. It said:  It is worth 
noting that the warranty provided with the car runs until16 March  2021 or 100,000 miles 
(whichever is reached first) so should  Mrs P have any concerns that these can be 
investigated in any of our approved repairers  and considered under this warranty.
RCI said this offer was initially  declined by Mrs P. I would expect that offer to remain open 
and as I am aware  that Mrs P has lost faith in her dealer it might be prudent  of her to take up 
this offer so that the car can be inspected and any faults resolved.
Ref: DRN67412713I believe that will allow Mrs P to have her car examined by suitably qualified  mechanics 
independent of the dealer  who sold the car and for them  to deal with any faults  they identify 
under warranty.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, but I expect RCI to honour the offer it 
made previously about supporting Mrs P to get her car inspected by another dealer. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mrs P to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6741271