K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
From now on Ill just refer to Santander  in my decision as it is responsible for dealing  with 
this complaint. 
background
In 1996 Miss D took out a PPI policy. She paid a monthly amount for the policy  and it 
protected her mortgage repayments  against  accident, sickness  and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ds mis-selling complaint. As Miss D disagrees with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
Miss D is mainly concerned that Santander  no longer has the mortgage paperwork and 
theres only limited information available. Miss D told us that PPI wasnt explained  to her - 
otherwise she says she would've  challenged it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
As this sale took place  some time ago, its not unusual that Santander no longer has all the 
paperwork from the sale. Ive taken into account  everything Miss D and Santander have told 
me. And Ive relied on information that this service  knows  about how Santander normally 
sold these types  of policies and the processes people  typically went  through  to get PPI. 
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what  happened I have to 
look at everything and decide  what I think is most likely. Based on what  shes told us, it 
seems likely that Miss D agreed  to buy PPI during a meeting with one of Santanders  
advisers. 
I can completely understand why Miss D mightve forgotten this now  and it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  her to be able to recall in any detail  what  mightve been discussed about 
PPI at the time. So what Miss D says isn't enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold  her 
complaint. 
Based on what she remembers, it looks like Miss D had held her mortgage account without 
PPI for some  time when she applied for the policy. So I think  she wouldve been aware that it 
was up to her to arrange PPI to protect  her mortgage if she wanted to have it. 
Her mortgage was a major financial commitment. Miss Ds home  wouldve  been at risk if the 
mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. So, I can see why she mightve felt PPI was 
useful. On balance,  it seems likely to me that Miss D wanted to have the security  and peace 
of mind that PPI offered  and so she decided to buy PPI. 
Ref: DRN69989752Its unclear how Miss D took out the PPI  Santander cant confirm this. But Miss D thought  
she had spoken  to someone  at Santander.  So, I think  the fairest way to look at her complaint 
is to assume Santander recommended  the PPI to Miss D. 
If a business makes a recommendation  about  PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It has an extra  obligation - it also has to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.
It looks to me like PPI was suitable for Miss D based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances. 
The policy covered her for accident, sickness and unemployment and Santander says it 
would've paid out for up to 24 months for each  successful claim. This means that the policy  
wouldve covered  Miss Ds mortgage repayments  for significantly longer than she couldve 
expected to receive sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work  and it wouldve been 
paid in addition  to any work  benefits Miss D mightve  got. 
Ive taken into account that Miss D mentioned having at least  a years worth of her salary 
saved up when she took out her mortgage. But it looks like she preferred not to spend this, 
or she had other plans  for that money, since she took out this mortgage rather than invest all 
her savings in buying  this property. Having PPI meant Miss D could continue to keep  her 
savings to spend on other things or to provide  her with financial security.  There  was no 
guarantee when  Miss D took out her mortgage that she would've always  had savings to rely 
on if she couldnt work. 
So, looking  at her circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable.  
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But Miss D 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those. So I dont think  its likely this wouldve 
made any difference to her decision to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Miss D when she took it out. But, from what 
Ive seen, Miss D hasnt suggested  that she couldnt afford the monthly  premiums.  
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Miss D still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if shed been better informed as it 
gave her useful protection in her particular  situation.  So I dont find that Miss D has lost out 
as a result  of anything  that Santander  mightve done  wrong. This means it doesnt need to 
do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6998975