K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about how Virgin Money  plc (Virgin  Money) handled his query when he 
contacted them about a transfer of air miles to his account.
background 
Mr T brought  his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response hed received from 
Virgin Money. Virgin Money apologised and said there had been  an error with Mr Ts 
account number  for the air miles. Virgin Money  felt they shouldve acted sooner when Mr T 
first contacted them on 9 April 2018  so the air miles could have appeared on his statement 
for 7 May 2018. But as a result of the mistake there was a delay and the air miles werent 
transferred until 21 June 2018  showing on his July 2018 statement. Virgin  Money offered 
£50 compensation  to Mr T as an apology for the poor service. But said they were unable to 
offer compensation in air miles as hed requested. Mr T declined  this offer and asked  for a 
realistic offer of compensation to offset  his time and cost in this matter.
Our investigator thought there were two aspects to Mr Ts complaint. In respect  of the first  
delay in transferring  air miles - he found Virgin Moneys error  when  they didnt escalate the 
issue on 9 April 2018 had delayed the transfer  to Mr T. Our investigator appreciated that 
delay caused  Mr T some  inconvenience and Virgin Money were  correct in offering  
compensation for this. In relation to the second  part of the complaint regarding Virgin Money 
giving Mr T incorrect  contact details our investigator was satisfied  some  of the emails Mr T 
had sent to Virgin Money had bounced back but had no records or call logs from either 
Virgin Money or Mr T in respect of the numerous  phone calls Mr T had mentioned. So the 
investigator wasnt able to say it would be fair and reasonable for Virgin Money  to increase 
the compensation theyd already offered.
Mr T asked  for additional time to consider the view and had a number of queries but 
ultimately decided  to ask for an ombudsman to review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for much  the same reasons.
No one disputes Virgin made  a mistake when transferring  and allocating  the air miles to Mr 
Ts card. So there was a delay  and they didnt show on his statement until July 2018. In 
relation to the communication  issues the position isnt so clear. Theres  evidence of emails 
being bounced back to Mr T. But Virgin Money doesnt agree with what  Mr Ts told us about 
the calls and hes been unable to send  us a log of the calls hes made. 
Whilst I can see Mr T feels strongly  about this it doesnt impact on my decision here. And 
thats because  even if I accept what Mr Ts also told us about these calls,  I think  the £50 
compensation which Virgin Money  have offered to pay would  be a fair and reasonable offer 
for all the failings Mr T has told us about. Its in line with the sort of award  Id have made  in 
these circumstances  had it not been  offered. So I wont be asking Virgin Money  to increase 
this.
Given how strongly Mr T feels  about what happened he may want  to pursue the matter 
further through other routes which hes already mentioned to us. But my decision brings to 
Ref: DRN68089642an end what we  in trying to resolve  his dispute with Virgin Money informally  can do for 
him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr T.
my final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Money  plc has made  a reasonable offer to settle this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6808964