K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1996. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. To keep things  simple in my decision, Ill just say FICL when Im referring  to the PPI 
seller or to FICL.
Ms B is unhappy that PPI was added to her store card.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
The policy  was sold in store,  at the same  time that the card was taken out.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He noted  that Ms B had a pre-existing medical 
condition (PEMC) when  she took out the policy. The policy  excluded  disability claims relating 
to any PEMC. In the adjudicators view,  if this exclusion had been  brought  to her attention,  
Ms B would  not have taken out the policy.
FICL disagreed with these findings.  It has stated  that, based  on Ms Bs description of her 
condition, it is unlikely  that she would have needed to make  a claim under the policy relating  
to it. If the PEMC exclusion  had been  brought to her attention, FICL considers Ms B would 
still have taken out the policy.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Im currently  not intending to uphold Ms Bs complaint. I say this for the following reasons:
 When bringing her complaint to this service,  Ms B stated that it was not made clear to 
her that PPI was optional. She has also stated that the policy was added  without  her 
knowledge.Clearly I cant  be certain  about what exactly was discussed when the policy  was sold in 
store. I must therefore  reach a conclusion on this matter based on the weight of 
evidence provided. In addition I am mindful that the sale took place a number of years 
ago, in my view making  it more difficult to recall in detail.
On the credit agreement  that Ms B signed  when she took out the store card, there  was 
a section relating to the PPI. A box was available to be ticked  if the applicant  wanted to 
take out PPI. Other sections  of the form that related  to other  options available were not 
selected by Ms B. Overall, based  on the content of the store  card application,  in my 
view it is more likely  than not that PPI was presented  to Ms B as an optional product, 
and that she chose to take it out.
Ref: DRN63290702 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
 I cant be sure whether FICL gave Ms B sufficient information  about the PPI to make  
an informed choice  about it. In particular, I cannot be certain  that the exclusion for 
disability claims relating to PEMCs  was brought to Ms Bs attention.  In response to the 
adjudicators view upholding  the claim, FICL  has suggested  that based on Ms Bs 
description of her PEMC, she would have taken out the policy  even if the PEMC 
exclusion had been made clear  to her.
Ms Bs representative has told us that Ms Bs medical condition was diagnosed  around 
10 years  before she took out the PPI policy. It has said that Ms B had surgery  around 
the time of the diagnosis. The representative reports that Ms B is not on medication for 
this medical condition, it doesnt affect  her normal day to day life, and she has taken no 
time off work as a result of the condition.
I have thought carefully about  how Ms Bs decision to take out the policy  might have 
been affected if the PEMC exclusion was made clear  to her when  she was sold the 
policy. Bearing in mind the description  which has been  provided about her condition, 
on balance it seems  to me that Ms B is unlikely to have thought  that she would  need  to 
claim under the policy  for any time off work relating to her PEMC. In the circumstances, 
my current  view is that had the PEMC exclusion been brought to her attention, more 
likely than not, Ms B would  still have chosen to take out the policy.
 I say this bearing in mind that Ms B doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the 
other main things the policy  didnt cover. In addition,  based  on her circumstances,  it 
looks like the policy could have  been useful to Ms B if she wasnt  working due to 
disability or unemployment.
 On balance my view is that better information  would not have led to Ms B deciding not 
to take out the policy. 
I should add, in relation to comments made by Ms Bs representative  when submitting this 
complaint, that this is a complaint about FICL. FICL is an insurer, rather  than a lender. 
Because it is not a lender,  the unfair relationship provisions  set out at s140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s140A of the Act, and the 
rules and guidance made by the Financial  Conduct Authority about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in the light of the Plevin  judgment, arent  
applicable in this case. Consequently, this is not something that I need  to take into account  
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
Although I appreciate Ms B will be disappointed with my findings, my current view is that the 
policy was not mis-sold. 
responses to my provisional  decision
FICL did not respond  to my provisional decision.
Ms Bs representative did not agree with my provisional decision. It has commented  that it 
was not made clear  to Ms B that she had a choice about taking out PPI, or that it would add 
extra costs.  Based on Ms Bs existing means, it does not consider that she had a need  for 
the policy.
Ref: DRN63290703In terms of Ms Bs PEMC, the representative  has stated that, regardless of whether Ms B is 
likely to have needed to make a claim for time off work due to this condition, the policy  was 
clearly unsuitable  due to the condition.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  taking into account the contents of the store card 
application, it seems to me more likely than not that the optionality  of PPI was made  clear  to 
Ms B. I have also taken  into account Ms Bs means  to meet her repayments when she took 
out the card. However, my view is that the policy did provide a potentially useful benefit for 
her to help meet her card repayments if she wasnt working.
As her representative has highlighted, the policy terms meant that Ms B was not covered for 
any claims made in relation to her PEMC. However I have considered whether Ms B would 
still have taken out the policy if this exclusion had been brought to her attention, bearing in 
mind her description of the PEMC. Overall, my conclusion remains  that despite this 
exclusion, she would still have taken out the policy, based on the description that has been  
given about the impact  of the PEMC on Ms B.
With regard to the comments the representative has made  about commission payments, I 
would refer to the section  of my provisional  findings where I discussed this particular issue.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6329070