K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Sytner Group Ltd mis-sold him a fixed-term loan when he part-
exchanged his car under a hire purchase  agreement.
background
In May 2016  Mr C part-exchanged  his car for another one under his hire purchase 
agreement with Sytner Group. The value  of the part exchange was not enough to cover  the 
balance of the hire purchase agreement. The shortfall, about £2,250, was covered by a 
fixed-term loan for four years. Mr Cs complaint is that he wasnt  told about  this loan, and 
that he only discovered it in 2018,  when he tried to voluntarily  terminate  the hire purchase 
agreement and was told that he would still be liable for the full loan. He says this had never 
been explained to him, and that he didnt read the documentation he was given at the time.
Sytner Group said that the credit agreement and the pre-contract information had made it 
clear that Mr C was taking a fixed-sum loan.  It said it had been Mr Cs responsibility to read 
it, and hed had 14 days in which to do so and to change his mind. It also pointed out that 
Mr C had signed two direct debit mandates, one for each finance agreement, so he must 
have known he had two finance agreements.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Cs complaint and did not uphold  it. Mr C asked for 
an ombudsmans decision, so this case has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have seen the loan agreement. At the top of the first page is the heading,  in large  font, 
Fixed Sum Loan Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It is a separate  
document to the hire purchase agreement, which  is headed Hire Purchase Agreement  
etc. Mr C signed both documents.  So I cant agree that he was not told he had a loan.
I accept that Mr C didnt read these  documents, but that is not Sytner Groups fault. He had 
14 days in which he could  have  read them at home, and in which  he could have changed  his 
mind if he didnt like what he read. (The agreements are not long. The entire terms and 
conditions of the fixed-sum loan agreement fit on one page.)
Ref: DRN69109672my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6910967