K821x#15Complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that NewDay Ltd chased  him for a debt on a credit card that he didnt take 
out.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 January 2020. In it I said:
An application for a credit card was taken out in Mr Ts name in November 2016   his 
address details were  used, but the email and mobile  phone details recorded were  not.
Spending took place on the account shortly after it was opened, but no repayments  were 
made.
Mr T has given us a letter  dated  21 April 2017  from NewDay. It said his account was now 
closed and there was an outstanding balance due. The letter asked Mr T to get in touch with 
NewDay to discuss repaying  the outstanding debt.
Mr T has given us another letter which NewDay  wrote to Mr T in August 2017 and told him 
they were selling on his credit card debt to a debt collection company. The debt sold on 
amounted to around £750.
Following this Mr T got in touch with us, and we passed the complaint over to NewDay. They 
then wrote to Mr T asking him to get in touch with their fraud team  so they could discuss  
whether a fraudulent application had been made for the credit card.
Mr T told us that, in December 2017,  he tried to contact the fraud team on multiple occasions 
and wasnt able to get through to anyone who could help  because  he couldnt pass  their 
security.
In January 2018 he was contacted by the debt collection company direct  and was told they 
were passing his debt on to a solicitor. The solicitor got in touch and said if a crime reference 
number wasnt provided then theyd start legal proceedings.
In February 2018,  following some  communication between  us, NewDay  and Mr T, he agreed 
to get in touch  with NewDay  and discuss the fraud.
Mr T though  didnt do this. He told us he received a letter shortly after this to say the account  
was being closed. He thought this meant the matter  was resolved  and hes said he was the 
subject of fraud previously, and that got resolved very quickly,  so he assumed this one had 
now been resolved too.
In June 2019, NewDay wrote to Mr T to let him know he wouldnt be held liable  for the debt.
They said in this letter  his credit score wouldnt be affected, but theyd register  his details on 
a fraud  prevention database to protect  him, and he may find future  credit  applications take 
longer to complete because of this.
Mr T told us he was relieved about  this but wanted  to complain about matters  because of the 
impact this had on him. Mr T has given us a detailed explanation. Ive read all of this, and my 
summary of it is as follows:
Ref: DRN68166682This is the second time fraud has happened to him in this way  the first time 
everything was sorted with one phone call, so he doesnt understand why thats not 
happened this time.
He didnt receive a lot of letters from NewDay, or other parties involved, because his 
mail was regularly being intercepted. He says this was happening both at the time of 
the credit  card application, and since. 
When he first became aware  of it  and on multiple occasions  since  he believed  the 
matter had been resolved because of information he was told or letters he was sent.
He doesnt  understand  how NewDay could hold him liable based on the information 
they had  specifically around IP checks and his address.
The impact on him was that he couldnt  increase his credit card limit to cover a flight, 
he wasnt able to hire a car, and he wasnt able to get a re-mortgage  which  meant he 
couldnt take up a job opportunity.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He said that as the fraud  issue has now been 
resolved hes focused his investigation on NewDays actions since they became aware of 
the complaint  in November 2017.  Having done  so, he felt that NewDay should pay Mr T 
£200 compensation.
Mr T replied and explained he didnt agree with this recommendation. In summary he said:
While  the issues around  credit availability car hire were stressful, theres no mention 
of the time taken  to get this matter resolved and the stress, anxiety and amount of 
time taken.
The other lender  resolved this so much quicker, so he understood this to be the way 
to resolve matters.
Theres no mention of a message from NewDay in November 2017 to say the matter  
had been resolved.
Our investigators findings  suggest its not his or NewDays  fault, but he says it is 
their fault, and not making this finding allows them to do this again.
NewDay had access to information  that showed  it wasnt  a genuine application in 
November 2017  how has this been allowed  to go on for so long if information 
backing up his claim was ready and available.
Hes concerned that we believe had he made more phone  calls he could have 
resolved it earlier  he did the best he could under the circumstances.
Hes pleased we agree NewDay could have done better, but £200  doesnt cover the 
issues hes mentioned.
Hes had nothing further from NewDay to confirm the matter  is closed  and how to 
check his credit file has been  corrected. He says hes contacted  one of the credit 
reference agencies,  and their automated identity check  couldnt verify his 
identification  so he cant get access to a report.
Ref: DRN68166683NewDay also replied and disagreed with the outcome. In summary they said:
They dont agree they could have done  anymore   they say it was clear what  Mr T 
needed to do, i.e. phone  their fraud line.
They couldnt have  told us what information  they needed from Mr T, because  that 
information is specific and may vary as the conversation goes on.
They agree  that the entries on the fraud  database  are strong indicators that this was 
a fraudulent application  and its likely the information was reviewed  in November 
2017. But their procedures still required them to speak to Mr T before taking any 
further action.
Because of the above, they dont think any compensation is due.
As neither party is happy with the outcome  proposed, the complaints  been  passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I think its important to emphasise to 
both parties Ive read in detail all of their submissions, but my role is to decide the outcome I 
think is appropriate  rather than comment on each issue as its been raised.
Because the issue around the application  has been concluded, like our investigator,  Ill just 
focus on matters since  NewDay  became  aware  of the complaint in November 2017.
From all of the information Ive seen, it seems that NewDay have always been open to the 
possibility that this was a fraudulent application. I can see at times Mr T has been given 
conflicting information from the debt collection company  but even then, in one of the letters  
they explain if theres a problem  Mr T should  contact NewDay  directly and take it up with 
them.
NewDay have told us they only keep call recordings for a limited  time  so couldnt  provide 
the calls Mr T says he made when we asked for them. But Mr T has been  clear and 
consistent in telling  us he called NewDay in November 2017 to try and get the matter 
resolved. Hes said he was unable to pass their security because they asked for some of the 
fraudulent details to do so.
Because theres no call recordings I cant know what questions  were asked or what answers  
were given. And Im not going  to comment on NewDays  procedures for verifying someone in 
this situation.  But in Mr Ts case if hes complaining that someone  has applied  for a credit 
card fraudulently in his name  it does seem likely some of the details  provided  wont  match 
his.
In addition, NewDay have  told us its likely they checked a fraud  database and some of 
these details matched  Mr Ts. I think this adds more weight to Mr Ts argument that NewDay  
could have done more to help him at the time.
So, Im satisfied that Mr T called up in November 2017 and I think its more likely than not
NewDay could have  done more to try and help him resolve this issue.
But as noted above the issue  around the fraudulent application wasnt actually  resolved  until
June 2019  so I need  to consider whats taken place in between.
Ref: DRN68166684Mr T was sent a large  number of letters from NewDay, their debt collectors and the solicitors  
the debt collector  employed to recover the balance owing. Mr T says he didnt receive  all of 
these  given  this relates to a fraudulent application  where NewDay  seem to have since  
accepted he didnt receive the card and PIN, this seems  plausible  to me.
So, this will explain some of the delays that have  prevented this issue from getting resolved.
But it doesnt explain all of them, because Mr T has also told us he did receive  some  letters.
Mr T has told us on a number of occasions that he made one phone call when a similar 
incident happened before,  and it all got resolved. Up to a point,  it was therefore not 
unreasonable that he might expected that this time. But different financial businesses will 
have different processes. And in the event  of Mr T not being  able to resolve  the issues  as 
simplistically as he was able to do previously, in the circumstances here, I dont think  its 
unreasonable to expect  that Mr T should have done  more himself to sort his concerns.
For instance, from what I can see Mr T was told on a number of occasions to call NewDays  
fraud department. Ive accepted he tried this in November 2017, but given he kept receiving 
further letters I think its reasonable for him to have accepted this wasnt  going to be resolved 
without more of his input. I can see he doesnt  agree  he should  have  had to do this, but at 
the same  time I dont  think that means he isnt required to respond  when  NewDay  ask him to 
 or is absolved of all consequences if he chose  not to.
NewDays procedures require the individual to call their fraud line and speak to them. Im 
satisfied Mr T tried to do this in November  2017,  but I do think  there were other opportunities 
for Mr T to do so  which could have significantly lessened the time this issue  has taken 
overall.
I dont doubt this was a difficult time for Mr T  hes told us as much  and naturally being  the 
victim of fraud  is going  to be a worrying and stressful time.  But NewDays procedures 
required more from Mr T, and what they asked doesnt seem unreasonable.
Mr T could  point out he received letters which were confusing and at times contradictory. Id 
agree with that, and will factor that communication from NewDay  (alongside the debt 
collector and solicitors, as their actions were on behalf of NewDay) in to the overall 
compensation I think is appropriate.  But I also think the letters  he received would have made 
it clear to Mr T that he still needed to try and engage with this process  to get everything 
resolved.
Taking everything into account  I think NewDay could have done more to help Mr T bring this 
matter to a more timely conclusion. But I dont hold them entirely responsible  for the delays 
that have occurred, as at times I think Mr T should  have  known he needed to do more.
Our investigator recommended £200  compensation and referenced  the impact  of Mr Ts 
credit file not being updated earlier. Mr T has made it clear there are three issues  around his 
credit file. These are not getting  a credit limit increase to pay for an important flight, not being  
able to hire a car, and a lost job opportunity because of not being  able to re-mortgage.
Mr T has also talked  about the time taken and the stress and anxiety this has caused him. I 
dont doubt for a moment this has had quite a significant  impact  on him.
But looking  at everything in the round I think £350 is a fair and reasonable award  to make on 
this case. NewDay  (alongside the debt collectors  and the solicitors) havent  helped matters.
Ref: DRN68166685Their procedures appear to have stopped Mr T from getting this resolved earlier,  they sent 
confusing and contradictory letters and didnt seem  to recognise early enough how best to 
communicate with Mr T. But I dont think I can safely say NewDay  should be held 
responsible for all the issues Mr T has had around  his credit file.
I dont think theres sufficiently compelling evidence to suggest that the impact Mr T 
describes, e.g. the failure to secure  the job opportunity, was caused simply by the manner in 
which NewDay had added  information  to his credit  file. Its simply not adequately established 
that NewDays actions  directly and solely prevented Mr T from successfully re-mortgaging, 
moving and taking on the new job.
And for the reasons Ive previously explained,  I also dont consider NewDay  is responsible  
for the entire  time this has been going on - when I think theres more Mr T could have done 
to get the matter resolved  earlier.
My proposal for NewDay to pay Mr T £350  in full and final settlement  of this complaint, I 
consider, reflects  the above.
Ive noted Mr Ts comments about his credit file  and if he continues to have issues  
accessing it online he may wish to try and call the relevant company and see if they can help 
him that way.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T replied and said he didnt have any additional  points. He also said hell agree to what 
Ive said, but it fails to uphold  the impact on his freedom  to make decisions about  his future.
NewDay didnt reply  by the deadline  set.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr T has accepted my decision, albeit with reservations,  and NewDay didnt reply I 
see no change to change  my original decision.
My decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I uphold this complaint, and order NewDay  Ltd to pay 
Mr T £350 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.  
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6816668