K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Just Retirement  Limited  (JR) didnt carry out a withdrawal request from 
her pension correctly. She says it delayed payment of withdrawals in the 2017/18 and 
2018/19 tax years. Mrs B says that it carried out several conversion valuations of her 
pension but she was only given one set of values at the start. She says JR did not answer  
her complaint or some  of her correspondence. It also gave her incorrect information about  
the tax she would pay. She is also concerned that an amount of her pension value has gone 
missing. 
background
Mrs B wanted to make a lump sum cash withdrawal from her pension.  She decided  to 
spread this over two tax years, 2017/18 and 2018/19. She contacted JR on 23 February 
2018 to discuss  making  the withdrawal. 
JR said that it would have to calculate  a conversion  value for the pension before  the 
withdrawals could be made. This was received by Mrs B on 9 March 2018. 
Mrs B says she sent in the forms to make  the first withdrawal  on the same day. Mrs B says 
JR confirmed to her verbally  that the payment should be in her bank account by 26/27 March 
2018. Having  not received payment on 27 March 2018 Mrs B emailed  JR to chase payment. 
She then received the first withdrawal amount on 29 March  2018. 
Mrs B received her second payment on 11 April 2018 after another  conversion valuation  had 
taken place. Mrs B says this should  have been  paid immediately  in the 2018/19  tax year.   
An adjudicator at this service  considered  Mrs Bs complaint. He did not believe it should  be 
upheld. He thought JR had processed  the withdrawals within a reasonable amount of time.  
He also thought that JR had deducted tax from the payments appropriately. The adjudicator 
thought that only one conversion value had been obtained for the first payment, not two as 
Mrs B thought. He also thought that JR had responded to Mrs Bs complaint within  the 
permitted timescales. 
Mrs B did not agree  and so the complaint has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
withdrawal process
I can see that Mrs B first contacted JR about making a withdrawal on 23 February 2018. If 
she wanted to make that withdrawal then JR had to obtain a conversion value for the 
pension first. This is not the start of any actual withdrawal process   the conversion  value 
has to be obtained  before any steps  can be taken. JR gave this value on 9 March  2018. 
If the withdrawal was to take place JR needed  a withdrawal request form completing. 
On 15 March 2018 JR told Mrs B how much  she needed to withdraw to get the (net) 
payment she required. Mrs B asks for withdrawals to be made  one in this (2017/18) tax 
Ref: DRN68241032year and one in the next tax year. The JR notes suggest that Mrs B was to return the 
conversion option form so that the first payment could be made.  And then another  form 
would be sent to action the second  payment in the new tax year. The notes  suggest  another 
form was sent and both forms were  received  correctly completed on 21 March 2018.  
The first payment was made 29 March 2018.  
My view is that JR administered this withdrawal request  and did not take an unreasonable  
amount of time. There  were a number  of steps that had to be followed before payments  
could be made. Payment was made within five working days  of JR receiving  the necessary 
documents for that to go ahead. I appreciate that Mrs B was chasing  JR between 21 March 
and 29 March 2018 and may feel that the payment would not have been made on 29 March 
2018 without her intervention. It is not possible to know  what  would have happened 
otherwise. The factual situation is that JR did pay the first payment within a reasonable time.  
In terms of the 2018/19 payment, from the notes of the contact that JR had with Mrs B, it 
was discussed  in March that one withdrawal could be requested (2017/18) and then the next 
payment in the new tax year could be requested  requiring a new conversion value (and a 
new conversion form). The two payments were separate and because  the second  payment 
was outside the period allowed by the original conversion value request, a new conversion 
value was required for the second  payment. 
Although it is not entirely clear from the correspondence I think  it is more likely that the 
second conversion calculation was for the second  payment. The first payment did not 
require another  conversion calculation. That is what JR has said  it has said it did not carry 
out another conversation calculation for the first payment. It could be that Mrs B believed 
that only one conversion calculation  would  be required for both payments as she requested 
them at the same time  but that is not how the payments are administered   they were two 
separate processes. Whilst I appreciate that Mrs B may not have  seen the second 
conversion calculation  (probably  because of the short timescale  before  payment was due to 
be made in the new tax year) I dont believe this would have affected the process  that was 
followed or the withdrawal  that was made.
In any event the second payment was only made  a few days after the end of the 2017/18 tax 
year and so I do not believe JR took an unreasonable  amount of time to make that payment. 
missing value
The difference in illustrated values Mrs B received  is because  one is a conversion value and 
one is a guaranteed maturity value at the end of the term. The conversion  value is different 
than the guaranteed maturity value  because it assumes encashment immediately and the 
plan is not maintained. The guaranteed  maturity figure includes annuity  income  yet to be 
paid to maturity. 
JR dealing with the complaint
The evidence is that JR did deal with Mrs Bs complaint.  It acknowledged  the complaint  in 
early April and issued  a Final Response Letter on 16 May 2018.  JR has eight weeks  to deal 
with a complaint  and it did respond  within this period.  
tax 
Ref: DRN68241033JR has explained the tax treatment of income  falling in the 2018/19 tax year,  which it has 
checked with HMRC. I can see that the way the withdrawal is assessed means that a higher 
rate of tax was applied to it than Mrs B expected. As Mrs B indicates, it seems that total 
income and tax payable will be resolved  throughout  the tax year.  So I dont believe that JR 
has made an error in the approach it has taken to applying tax (bearing in mind it is following 
advice form HMRC).  
I have noted that Mrs B has said that she was told in March  2018 that her payments would 
fall within  the 20% tax band but I have not seen  evidence  of that with respect to the 2018/19 
tax year.  It would be unusual if JR would have confirmed that as it did not know Mrs Bs 
personal tax situation  in 2018/19. 
Having said that JR did work out a net lump sum withdrawal figure for 2018/19 based on 
20% tax applying (a not unreasonable assumption)  when  in fact a higher percentage of tax 
would apply initially because  of the way withdrawals are taxed. As discussed  the total tax 
Mrs Bs pays  over the tax year will be calculated by reference to her total income so I do not 
believe she has been caused to pay more tax than she should by JR. The higher initial  tax 
sum was caused by the application  of the HMRC  approach. Whilst I can see that it would 
have been better if all parties  had been aware  of this beforehand  I do not believe that JR has 
caused Mrs B a financial loss. 
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
David Bird 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6824103