K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complained about how the Society  of Lloyds  handled  and settled a claim she made 
under her buildings  insurance policy for water  damage.
background
Mrs C holds a Tenanted Property Insurance policy, which is underwritten by the Society of 
Lloyds (Lloyds). In February 2018 she made a claim under that policy for water ingress at 
the second and third floor levels of her property  via the upper roof terrace. She said pipes on 
her roof terrace burst and leaked and her glass reinforced plastic  covered flat roof was 
damaged due to snowfall  on around  26 February  2018. Mrs C said these problems caused 
water to enter her property.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to attend  Mrs Cs property and assist it in dealing with the 
claim. Ill refer to them as A throughout this decision. A visited  Mrs Cs property  in April 
2018. And it said it had spoken with Mrs Cs builders, who said the roof hadnt been  
constructed correctly  and this was the underlying  reason for the water ingress.
Following As visit to Mrs Cs property it told Lloyds the roof was not in the best condition 
and if it had been  in sound condition it would have  coped with the weather as it was 
designed to do. A thought the ingress  of water was probably due to the roof being 
overwhelmed when  the snow melted.  
Mrs C refuted As opinion  about how the roof had been  damaged  and said the comments of 
her builders had been misunderstood. She said her builders  didnt  think the roof was faulty;  
instead they felt the water  ingress had been  caused  by adverse weather conditions. She 
also said shed had a survey when she purchased her property in 2016, which hadnt 
identified any issues with the roof. 
Lloyds instructed an independent roofing  specialist, which Ill call D, to attend Mrs Cs 
property and provide  its view as to the cause of water ingress into the property. Following an 
inspection of the roof D told Lloyds it thought the main cause of the water ingress was the 
poor standard and condition of detailing  around  the roof light over the stairwell  to the main 
third floor area. It identified  evidence of patch repairs to the front of the roof light,  which  it 
said indicated the membrane and detailing had previously failed. D said the overall standard 
of workmanship in the construction of the roof was poor.  
Lloyds thought the reports from A and D demonstrated that the roof had been poorly  
constructed and that this had contributed to its premature  failing over a period of time.  It said 
loss or damage caused by faulty workmanship, general maintenance or anything  that 
happens gradually  was excluded by Mrs Cs policy, so it declined her claim for damage  to 
the roof. However, it agreed to cover all the internal damage caused by the ingress of water 
under the accidental damage section of her policy. 
Mrs C wasnt happy that Lloyds wouldnt cover the damage to her roof so she referred her 
complaint to our service. She said the roof light is far down on a slightly pitched roof and, so, 
the stains on the ceiling couldnt  have been caused by leaks  around the roof light. She said 
Lloyds had failed  to take this into account when assessing her claim.  She didnt think  D was 
independent and she was concerned about  how A and D had communicated with her and 
investigated the cause of damage to her property.
Ref: DRN65245892Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt  uphold this complaint. They 
werent persuaded that the damage  Mrs C had reported to Lloyds  had been  consistent with 
a one off identifiable storm event. And they thought  it was, most likely, caused by poor 
workmanship. So, they didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong in declining this claim. 
But Mrs C disagreed and asked an ombudsman to determine this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Theres no dispute that water damage  occurred to Mrs Cs property. However, theres a 
dispute between  Mrs C, Lloyds and its appointed agents about  the correct  outcome of this 
claim. 
Mrs C would like Lloyds to cover the damage to her roof because  she feels  it was caused  by 
adverse weather. Her policy with Lloyds covers damage caused by a storm. But for a claim 
to be accepted under this peril it must be shown that any damage was the direct  result of a 
single, weather event.  
When considering  a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to consider  three  main  
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage  consistent with what we would  normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Turning to the first question, I can see that Mrs Cs policy  doesnt  define the word storm. 
This isnt unusual. This service takes the view that a storm generally involves violent winds,  
usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. Based on what  Ive seen the weather recorded at 
around the time the damage occurred, and in the days  prior to that, Im not satisfied there 
was a storm. I say this because the winds werent strong enough  and no snow or rain was 
recorded. Taking all of this into account,  I cant fairly  find that the roof damage that Mrs C 
reported to Lloyds was weather related. 
Having carefully considered the reports from A and D, I think  its most likely that any ingress  
of water occurred due to the condition of the roof. Mrs C doesnt  accept  that the roof light 
caused water ingress and damage  all over her ceiling. Shes provided our service  with 
evidence that the roof light is located far down on a slightly  pitched roof. And shes also 
described and photographed pinprick  damage in the roof fabric,  which she says was caused 
by adverse weather. 
I want to assure Mrs C that I understand the point she is making here.  But Im not persuaded 
her comments about the position of the roof light or damage to the roof fabric  contradict what  
D says about  the cause  of damage. I say this because A and D inspected  the condition  of 
the roof and Im satisfied they would have been  aware of the position  of the roof light insofar 
as its relevant to the water damage inside Mrs Cs property.  
Both A and D have  comprehensively explained  in their reports  how the damage took place. 
They both think the ingress of water  came from the roof light. D found dampness  by the roof 
light and only minor  dampness  in the front bedroom. Its most likely  that water  entering Mrs 
Ref: DRN65245893Cs property would naturally run along  the plasterboard and joists towards the direction of 
the front bedroom, which explains why she found  damage  in this room  too.
  
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds has shown our service reliable evidence to demonstrate 
that the roof was poorly  constructed and maintained. Rooves are built to withstand adverse 
weather and Ds report identified a number  of issues which were likely to have contributed to 
the roof failing prematurely.
Mrs C hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show ingress of water was due to a 
separate leak and not caused by the roof light. I havent seen an expert  report to contradict 
what either A or D have said here. With that in mind,  I cant  fairly conclude that their findings  
were unreasonable.  
I can see that Mrs C has questioned the independence of D. But I think  Lloyds acted 
reasonably in instructing D to provide its opinion on the cause of damage   particularly in 
circumstances where  Mrs C was disputing As opinion  and saying  the comments  of her 
builders had been misconstrued.   
We think its right for an insurer to instruct companies with expertise to inspect a customers 
property to assist it in determining the cause of damage. Here Lloyds appointed A and D to 
do that. And I dont  think it acted  unfairly in accepting and relying  on their opinion  in the 
circumstances of this claim.  
As outlined  in the background  to this complaint, loss or damage caused by faulty  
workmanship, general maintenance  or anything that happens gradually is excluded  by Mrs 
Cs policy. As Im satisfied that both A and D presented cogent evidence demonstrating that, 
on balance, the roof was poorly  constructed  and maintained I think  Lloyds acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy in declining her claim for roof damage. 
I understand Mrs C feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the 
reasons stated above, Im satisfied that Lloyds acted fairly  here.  So Im not going  to ask it to 
do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Julie Robertson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6524589