K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that HSBC  UK Bank Plc has committed a catalogue  of service 
failures and management errors related to their investment  accounts,  and maladministration  
of those accounts, from around  2016/17  to date.
background
I issued a provisional decision (PD) for this complaint on 11 November 2019. A copy of the 
PD is attached below,  so I will not repeat its details. In the main, I provisionally concluded as 
follows:
There  does not appear to be dispute  about  HSBCs liability for the significant sequence of 
errors, misinformation,  mismanagement and delays  summarised above.  They  continued 
over around three years. There  is evidence  of detrimental effects they had on 
Mr and Mrs Ms ability to manage their tax returns,  in addition to substantial evidence of what  
I consider to be great efforts  deployed by Mr M throughout and, overall,  somewhat frustrated 
by delays and ongoing (and emerging) problems (and additional errors) caused by HSBC. 
For the sake of completeness, my first provisional finding is that HSBC is liable for the 
complaint as presented.
I am satisfied with the evidence that I have seen in this respect  and I provisionally conclude  
that they should be given  £2,000 for the trouble  and upset  they have faced due to HSBCs 
wrongdoings.
If my provisional  findings  survive, the final decision  will order  HSBC UK Bank  Plc to pay 
[Mr and Mrs M]:
£2,000 for the trouble  and upset caused  to them.
A full refund  of all fees charged and received by HSBC UK Bank Plc for the 
management of their portfolios between 1 September 2016 and 30 May 2017.
Both parties  were invited  to comment on the PD. Mr M mainly  said as follows:
Their request for a closing statement for the joint portfolio remains unresolved to 
date. The same applies to their request for the tax certificate for this portfolio. HSBC  
continues to delay  the resolution  of both matters  without a meaningful explanation. 
There are grounds  to contend that HSBC  has failed in its statutory obligations to 
keep proper records.
It is clear from the complaint issues (and evidence) that HSBCs changes  in 2015  
were unfit for purpose and the complaint presents  grounds to assert  that there is a 
 distinct  possibility  that [their] investments have  been  completely mismanaged 
since the new systems were introduced .
No comments from HSBC  appear  to have  been received.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I retain the findings and 
conclusions (and redress) presented in the PD and I incorporate  them  into this decision. 
Ref: DRN64056562Mr Ms comments present three main points:
The ongoing lack of a resolution  to the closing  statement and tax certificate issue.
The alleged breach by HSBC of statutory record keeping obligations.
The assertion  about the possibility that Mr and Mrs Ms investments have been 
completely mismanaged by HSBC since around 2015.
I consider that the provisional conclusions  in the PD about merit in and redress for the 
complaint already took into account  the absence of evidence  that the closing statement 
matter had been resolved. The PD said  It appears that the pursuit  for the joint account 
statement was still ongoing in July. There was no meaningful update  to refer to in that 
respect, until the update given in Mr Ms comments  which says the matter remains 
unresolved. This also captures the tied matter of the tax certificate.
Merit in the complaint was upheld, in the PD, mindful of the above and the same applied  to 
the redress that was provisionally presented. As I said above, I retain and incorporate the 
PDs findings and conclusions.  The conclusions about the complaint and about 
compensation due to Mr and Mrs M remain the same. My remit is to determine the 
complaint, which  this decision does. I appreciate that Mr Ms update  shows  that some action 
to conclude engagement  with HSBC remains outstanding  due to HSBC.  However,  the 
need presently  remains  to conclude this services decision process after the PD.
The problems within HSBCs record keeping, as far as they relate  to the complaint issues,  
have been covered within the finding that it has committed a catalogue of service failures, 
management errors and maladministration to the detriment of Mr and Mrs M. If, as it 
appears, Mr Ms point  about an alleged breach of statutory record  keeping obligations 
relates to the regulation of HSBCs record keeping, that is a regulatory matter  that is beyond  
the remit of this service.
I do not consider  that the notion of investment mismanagement, in terms of investment 
decisions and outcomes, was an issue clearly pleaded in the original complaint. Evidence of 
specific investments which were allegedly mismanaged does not appear to have  featured in 
the complaint  addressed by HSBC  or this service. Mr M is entitled  to consider that such  
mismanagement is a possibility. However,  a complaint about this would first need  to be put 
to HSBC and then, if it remains unresolved and if Mr and Mrs M choose,  referred  to us  if 
such a complaint is in time (and in jurisdiction). Furthermore, there would be a need to show  
at least probability of mismanagement  more than the possibility Mr M refers to.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay them:
£2,000 for the trouble  and upset caused  to them.
A full refund  of all fees charged and received by HSBC UK Bank Plc for the 
management of their portfolios between 1 September 2016 and 30 May 2017.
HSBC UK Bank Plc must  provide Mr and Mrs M with a calculation  of compensation in a clear 
and simple format. HSBC must pay the full refund of fees ordered above on the basis of an 
accurate calculation of the fees received for the specified period.
Ref: DRN64056563Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  is essentially that HSBC UK Bank Plc has committed  a catalogue  of service 
failures and management errors related to their investment accounts, and maladministration of those 
accounts, from around 2016/17 to date.
background
Mr and Mrs M provided us with the following history:
In 2008 they engaged HSBCs Discretionary Wealth Management service to manage their 
joint portfolio and a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) for Mr M. 
In 2015 HSBC applied changes   to the types of funds it offered and to its client relationship 
arrangements  which they did not welcome.  They  tested the changes  for a period of time 
and by 2017  they terminated HSBCs engagement. Their joint portfolio  was moved  to a new 
firm in April 2017 and Mr Ms SIPP was moved to the same new firm in May 2017.
Ref: DRN64056564In September 2016, and as part of HSBCs  changes, their investments were  migrated unto a 
new platform. They  consider  this to be an important part of the source  of the problems they 
have subsequently faced  and about  which  they have complained. 
In the main, the problems cited by Mr and Mrs M are summarised as follows  
Tax packs (for 2016/17)  which they received  from HSBC in August  2017 and which they 
required in order to complete their tax returns were erroneous and incomplete.
Dividends which  should have been paid to Mr Ms account in late 2016 were  not paid until 
September 2017. During the same period HSBC communicated and had to address a number 
of different operational income payment related errors  that had been  committed.
In early 2018 errors made by HSBC  in relation to Mrs Ms Capital Gains Tax (CGT)  position 
were identified. They  say these errors were not properly explained but HSBC reimbursed the 
additional tax cost that was incurred. Something similar was identified later in 2018 in relation 
to Mr Ms CGT position.  HSBC made a similar reimbursement to redress the matter but 
declined Mr Ms request for a refund of fees and compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Problems, delays, errors  and misinformation featured in relation to the tax packs for the 
2017/18 year (up to when  their investments were transferred away from HSBC). They began  
their pursuit to have  HSBC address and resolve these  issues around September 2017 and, 
after receiving erroneous packs which had to be disregarded and rectified (and delays in 
doing so and in clarifying issues  related to the packs) and after this services  involvement, 
they eventually received the requisite and complete tax packs in early  2019.
In May 2018 HSBC made a payment of £1,280.81 into Mr Ms account with the new firm, it 
has since  claimed  that the payment was made in error but Mr M says it has been unable to 
properly explain the alleged error (and has given conflicting explanations  in this respect).
In December 2018  Mr M received notice that HSBC  had identified  another error with regards 
to Excess Reportable  Income  (ERI). It subsequently confirmed, with apologies,  that the notice 
itself was erroneous and that no ERI related error existed in relation to his account.
In January 2019 Mr M requested closing  account statements which  had not been provided 
since their accounts  were closed; another delay  ensued; and another misinformation (about  a 
missed dividend  payment error) was subsequently withdrawn and corrected by identification, 
instead, of a fresh error  about stamp  duty being applied to transactions  in his accounts when  
it ought  not to have been applied. Receipt of the closing account  statement for the SIPP was 
delayed until April. Mr M was unhappy  with the delay and what he refers to as the almost 
incomprehensible contents of the statement. It appears that the pursuit  for the joint account 
statement was still ongoing in July.
Mr M submitted a number  of complaints to HSBC  about the problems he and Mrs M were facing.  
Overall, HSBCs position  appears  to have been to concede the complaints, to apologise (repeatedly)  
and to make  offers of compensation for the trouble and upset caused to them.  A total of £1,400 
(including a partial fee refund of around £300) appears to have been made  by HSBC. Mr and Mrs M 
declined its offers. 
The matter was considered  by this service and one of our adjudicators endorsed the offers HSBC  
made  at the time of the adjudicators  view the offers totalled £1,100 (including the partial fee 
refund). The adjudicator  also considered  that HSBC  could recover the May 2018  payment it made  to 
Mr Ms new account. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with this outcome. They  maintained their query  over 
HSBCs position to recover  the May 2018 payment  given that it has not properly  explained a basis 
upon which to do so (and has given  conflicting reasons for the payment). They also confirmed their 
monetary claim  mainly as follows:
A full refund of all fees charged  by HSBC  for the management of their portfolios, given that it 
has not delivered the level of service they were  entitled  to and paid for.
In addition,  meaningful financial compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to 
them by HSBC in all of the problems  they faced.
Ref: DRN64056565The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I have issued this provisional decision  because, whilst the adjudicator  and HSBC shared common 
ground about  HSBCs offers, at the time, being fair  and about HSBC recovering the payment of May 
2018  Mr and Mrs M disagreed, and I have provisionally formed a different  conclusion(s). As such, 
the parties are presently  given an opportunity to consider  and comment  upon my provisional  
conclusion(s) before a final decision  is issued.
There does not appear to be dispute about HSBCs liability  for the significant sequence  of errors, 
misinformation, mismanagement and delays  summarised above. They  continued  over around three 
years. There is evidence of detrimental effects they had on Mr and Mrs Ms ability to manage their tax 
returns, in addition to substantial  evidence of what I consider to be great efforts deployed by Mr M 
throughout and, overall, somewhat frustrated  by delays  and ongoing (and emerging) problems (and 
additional errors)  caused  by HSBC. For the sake of completeness, my first provisional finding  is that 
HSBC is liable  for the complaint as presented.
I am not persuaded that the matter of the May 2018 payment is sufficiently within my remit   or that of 
the complaint. The claim for recovery of this payment  belongs to HSBC, but Mr and Mrs M  not 
HSBC  are the complainants. 
In some cases, where there is sufficient evidence that an erroneous payment has been made to a 
complainant, it can be within the fair and reasonable approach of this service  to address such a 
matter. In this case, and as suggested within Mr Ms arguments, I do not consider that there is 
sufficiently reliable information or evidence that the May 2018 payment was erroneous. In the context 
of the numerous errors HSBC appears to have committed in this case and the somewhat conflicting 
explanations it has given about the payment, its claim about the payment could arguably also be an 
error. In the absence  of reliable evidence to determine  the matter,  I do not consider it safe to draw  a 
conclusion about it. HSBC of course retains its discretion to pursue  this matter further, beyond  this 
service.
I do not consider  that the total of £1,400  with or without  the partial  fee refund  is sufficiently fair 
compensation for the trouble  and upset endured by Mr and Mrs M on a seemingly continuous and 
escalating basis over around three years and arising  from the succession of issues/problems 
summarised above. I am satisfied with the evidence that I have seen in this respect and I provisionally  
conclude that they should be given  £2,000 for the trouble  and upset  they have faced  due to HSBCs 
wrongdoings. I suspect  HSBC acknowledges the gravity  of the trouble  and upset  caused to Mr and 
Mrs M. This appears to be reflected in the total offer it made, but I do not consider that it offered  quite 
enough  hence my provisional conclusion  in this respect.
I am not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms claim for a full refund  of all fees paid to HSBC  for the 
management of their portfolios. It appears to be their evidence that its service was acceptable up to 
the changes in 2015 and thereafter they wilfully elected to test the changes   before deciding to close 
their accounts  in 2017.  However, I accept their evidence  that the problems  they faced  began  around 
the change of platform in September 2016. The summary  of those  problems in the background  
section above supports this. I consider that the catalogue of service  failures, management errors and 
maladministration they have experienced  in relation to their portfolios since serves as ground to 
conclude that they did not receive the service that they were entitled to receive and that they paid for 
from September 2016 onwards. My provisional  conclusion is that they should  receive  a refund of all 
fees charged and received by HSBC in relation to the management  of their portfolios from September 
2016 and up to May 2017  when its management service  appears to have ended.
Ref: DRN64056566my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  If my 
provisional findings  survive, the final decision will order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay them:
£2,000 for the trouble and upset caused to them.
A full refund of all fees charged  and received  by HSBC UK Bank Plc for the management  of 
their portfolios  between 1 September 2016 and 30 May 2017.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6405656