K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax)    
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs E bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan in April 2003. This included  an 
MPPI policy. It was a joint policy and covered them for a split amount of benefit  with 50% 
covering Mr E and 50% Mrs E. They purchased the policy during a meeting with an advisor 
from Halifax in one of its branches.
Mr and Mrs E say Halifax mis-sold the policy to them. They  say they had enough cover at 
the time of sale through their employers and so the policy was not suitable for them.  They 
also say PPI was added without their knowledge.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr and Mrs Es complaint and I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs E say PPI was added without  their knowledge. So I have looked  into this.
Halifax has been unable  to provide much of the sales documentation that was used.  There  is 
little information  available  and so I cant be sure how or if the policy was presented by an 
advisor from Halifax to Mr and Mrs E during the meeting and Ive not been able to see most 
of the original sales documentation (such  as the agreement or application form).  So its been 
difficult for me to consider  whether Mr and Mrs E were given a choice or not as to whether 
they should have the MPPI policy (or whether they were told to have it and took it on that 
basis).
But Im not aware  of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies  around  this 
time. Ive also been able to see some sample documentation of what  most  likely was used 
by the advisor  in the meeting at the time of sale and the MPPI policy  is presented as optional  
on these sample forms. So, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion  that they werent given 
a choice taking  into consideration  what I know and the sample forms. I just havent  seen  
enough to make that conclusion. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI policy  to Mr and Mrs E during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional  responsibilities on the business,  I will proceed that 
this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs E, it had to ensure 
during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Es needs.  
Ref: DRN63679772After reviewing the information provided,  it doesnt  look as if the MPPI  policy was unsuitable 
for Mr and Mrs E based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time. Mr and Mrs E 
initially told our service  that Mr E received  13 weeks sick pay and Mrs E didnt  receive any 
sick pay but both had redundancy and life cover. But more  recently  they have said they both 
received sick pay. Mr and Mrs E both worked  for the same company at the time of sale so I 
think it is more likely  than not that they both did receive 13 weeks sick pay. But the policy 
would also have paid in addition to these  provisions.  So the benefit would have been of use 
to Mr and Mrs E during  a difficult  time as they could have used their sick pay to pay for other 
expenses. I think,  on balance,  Mr and Mrs E had a need for this cover for any extended  
period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt  find any other  reason  such as a 
significant or limiting  term that would make the policy unsuitable for them. Mr E did have a 
pre-existing medical condition at the time of sale but I dont think, from the information  
provided that this would have made  the policy unsuitable for him. It looks like he still could 
have claimed on the policy for all circumstances that he would have needed.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  that Mr 
and Mrs E took out but even though it has provided information detailing  the cover and how 
much it cost,  I cannot be sure that these costs  were disclosed to Mr and Mrs E in a clear and 
fair way at the time of sale.  That said, even  if they were disclosed clearly in the meeting I 
dont think Mr and Mrs E would have done anything  different and decided  against having the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable. Its possible 
Halifax didnt point  out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs E 
wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold                
Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6367977