K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complained about Barclays Bank  UK PLC. They were unhappy because:
-Barclays wouldnt lend them the extra money they asked for, when they wanted  to 
move home; and
they believed  this meant their original mortgage  had been mis-sold, so they shouldnt  
have to pay the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) if they changed lender.
Mr and Mrs A want Barclays  to lend them the total of £488,000 which theyd requested,  or to 
waive the £6,000 ERC  which theyd have to pay if they change lender.
background
In January 2018, Mr and Mrs A talked to Barclays about remortgaging to Barclays. On 2 
March, Barclays issued  an offer for a repayment  mortgage for £208,000 over 30 years. 
There was a fixed interest rate for two years. Section 10 of the mortgage offer set out that if 
Mr and Mrs A paid off the mortgage within that two year period, theyd  have to pay an ERC 
of 3% of the amount  repaid.
The mortgage offer also set out what would happen if Mr and Mrs A moved house. This said:
If you buy another property to move to, you can transfer (port) the mortgage interest rate to 
a new mortgage  for the purchased property in relation to an amount no greater than your 
outstanding mortgage balance, provided that you meet the lending criteria in force  at the 
time that you ask to transfer the mortgage rate to your new property. A mortgage exit fee will 
be payable and an early  repayment charge may be payable in respect of the mortgage  that 
is being redeemed.
Mr and Mrs A went ahead with the remortgage  to Barclays.
At the end of July Mr A emailed the Barclays adviser whod dealt with the remortgage. He 
said they were looking  for a new property. His current car lease was about to expire and he 
was considering a loan or a lease,  and he wanted  to know  whether this would reduce the 
possible loan. The adviser had moved jobs within the bank,  so said she couldnt comment 
but generally speaking having  a loan does reduce the amount we will lend. It also depends 
on the loan amount, term of the mortgage  etc. There are many other factors  in the 
background.  
Later in the year, Mr A emailed Barclays, saying he and Mrs A had found a property they 
wanted to move to, and they wanted to borrow more. But Barclays would  only agree to lend 
an extra  £135,000 on top of their current borrowing. Mr and Mrs A complained. They  said the 
adviser theyd spoken to earlier in the year had said their extra  borrowing  would  be possible. 
And Mr and Mrs A also said the recent adviser had been unhelpful and wouldnt put forward 
their complaint. They asked for the amount they wanted to borrow,  or their ERC to be waived 
on the grounds their mortgage had been mis-sold.
Barclays didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint. It noted that theyd said the adviser earlier 
in the year had said it would  be possible to borrow more.  But theyd have to make  an 
application before  borrowing could be approved, and its adviser hadnt guaranteed that Mr 
and Mrs A could take out further borrowing.
Ref: DRN62485622Barclays pointed out that although Mr and Mrs A may have met the criteria  earlier  in the 
year, it had to review  circumstances before making any offer. Mr and Mrs A hadnt met the 
criteria to borrow as much as they wanted. The bank offered Mr and Mrs A £50 because 
theyd said the second adviser had been  unhelpful.
Mr and Mrs A werent satisfied and asked  Barclays to review its decision. But Barclays  didnt 
change its decision.  It noted that Mr and Mrs A now had two car hire purchase agreements, 
and they had an extra child. And the Bank of England base rate had increased, so Barclays  
policy had changed  in line with regulations.
Mr and Mrs A werent satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.  He said hed looked  at the 
correspondence and there was no evidence  that an agreement in principle had been agreed 
for extra borrowing. And even if it had been,  an agreement in principle only shows  how much  
a lender might be willing to lend, once an application  had been made. When the customer  
goes through  the application process,  the lender must be satisfied that the customer meets 
the lending criteria at that time.
The investigator also didnt agree  that Mr and Mrs As mortgage  had been  mis-sold. The 
mortgage offer had contained all the details of their mortgage, including the ERC.  So 
Barclays didnt need to waive the ERC if Mr and Mrs A chose to move their mortgage 
elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs A werent satisfied. They said this had really  disrupted their lives,  and they 
hadnt been able to get their dream home, with a move stalled for nine months. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr and Mrs A are disappointed  and frustrated at not being able to borrow  what  
they wanted. But the mortgage offer which Mr and Mrs A accepted in early 2018  is the key 
legal document  relating to their mortgage.  This made no promises about  further  borrowing. 
Nor have  I seen any other documents which indicated  that Barclays gave Mr and Mrs A an 
agreement in principle  that they could borrow more. Even if the bank had provided an 
Agreement in Principle document, saying that Mr and Mrs A might be able to borrow  more,  
this would always have  been subject to an application  and meeting the lending  criteria at the 
time. 
Ive set out above the mortgage  offer wording  which relates to borrowers  wanting  to move 
home. Its clear from this that the ability to transfer  even an existing outstanding balance 
would be subject to lending criteria at the time they wanted to move.  So I dont consider that 
Mr and Mrs A could  reasonably have  thought  that extra borrowing could be guaranteed 
without undergoing a full application on the criteria at the time.
I note that Mr and Mrs A told Barclays their circumstances  hadnt changed. And I can see 
that the original  mortgage application  form did record  two credit agreement/hire purchase 
agreements, which Mr and Mrs A said hadnt  changed by the time they wanted more  money.  
But the original  mortgage application form also records that they had two dependent children 
and childcare costs, and they had three  by the time of the application.  And the banks criteria 
Ref: DRN62485623had changed too, which it said was because  of the rise in the Bank  of England  rate. Lenders 
are entitled  to make changes to their lending criteria,  and they dont have to provide 
customer with details  of this commercially sensitive information.
So I find that Barclays was entitled to assess Mr and Mrs As request for more  lending on its 
criteria at the time they wanted to borrow, and to say no if they didnt meet the criteria  for the 
much higher  mortgage  they wanted.  Ive seen nothing to indicate that the bank guaranteed  
theyd be able to borrow a total of £488,000.  And indeed the terms of their mortgage  set out 
that theyd have to meet  current lending criteria even to transfer  their current mortgage  
balance to a new property.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr and Mrs As mortgage was mis-sold on the grounds that 
theyd been promised theyd be allowed to borrow more. As I dont find theyd been given 
any such guarantee, I dont agree that the mortgage  was mis-sold. So I find that, if Mr and 
Mrs A choose to move to another lender, Barclays would be entitled to charge Mr and Mrs A 
the ERC  which was clearly set out in the mortgage  offer.
Finally, I consider Barclays offer of £50 compensation,  for Mr and Mrs As unhappiness  with 
its second adviser, was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
I leave it to Mr and Mrs A to decide whether  or not they wish to ask Barclays whether the 
bank is still willing to pay them the £50 it offered for the customer service provided  by the 
adviser they said had been unhelpful.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6248562