K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the increases in premiums  on her home insurance held with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background
In April 2008, Mrs M, took out a home insurance policy underwritten  by StAIP. It provided 
Mrs M with buildings and contents insurance  cover. The contents insurance also included 
accidental damage  cover.  
Mrs M received a staff discount on the overall  cost of the premium. So Mrs Ms policy initially  
cost £488.93 for the year and the policys price was also fixed for the first three years.  
In 2011, after the price  freeze, Mrs Ms annual premium was £496.60.
The policys  cost increased  over the years and in April 2014  Mrs Ms annual  premium was 
£719.21. Shortly after the renewal, Mrs M contacted StAIP amending the number  of 
occupants recorded as living at the property. The policys details were updated, and a 15% 
discount was also offered   reducing the premium by £75.37.
In April 2016 the policy cost £777.08. A theft claim was made under the policy  for around 
£9,500 which reduced Mrs Ms no claims discount  (NCD) on both the building and 
contents insurance at 2017s renewal. So in 2017,  Mrs Ms premium cost £1,195.87. 
Mrs M contacted StAIP for the 2018 renewal. Mrs M didnt renew the policy  and ended up 
taking out an alternative  insurance policy that StAIP offered  her. Mrs Ms new policy  cost 
£323.88.
Because of this Mrs M complained to StAIP. Mrs M says she doesnt  think  she had been 
treated fairly and consider  StAIP  had taken advantage of her by unfairly  increasing  the cost 
of the policy  every year. 
She says she was charged too much  and should  be reimbursed for the extra  she considered  
she had paid over the years. 
StAIP looked into Mrs Ms concerns. It said that the premiums Mrs M was charged over the 
years were  correct. It also explained  that part of the reason for the increase was in relation to 
the insurance premium  tax (IPT) increases that happened over the years. 
Unhappy with StAIPs response, Mrs M referred the matter to our service. 
 
Our investigator thought StAIP hadnt treated Mrs M unfairly. As Mrs M disagreed,  the matter 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mrs M, so Id like to explain  why.
Ref: DRN61391882First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether StAIP has treated Mrs M fairly during the time she held her policy. 
Its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy to change  at each renewal. And there can 
be several, legitimate  reasons for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a 
consumer doesnt  stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage with the renewal process  or shop  
around can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer. 
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should  have  taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  someone wasnt  engaging.  
So Ive looked  into the policy Mrs M held with StAIP to see what  happened.
StAIP has explained that when Mrs M took out her policy in 2008 it included an introductory 
discount. It isnt uncommon for insurers to initially price a policy at a lower  cost than the true 
cost associated with the risk of insuring a property.  This is to attract  new customers. Insurers  
aim to keep  the consumer and recoup that cost over the subsequent years. I dont think this 
unfair. 
As Mrs Ms policy had a price  freeze  for the first three years,  StAIP only started recouping 
the initial discount from 2011. 
StAIP says after 2011, the gradual  increases  in the premiums each year, were due to the 
initial discount being recouped and the increases in IPT. It says the increases each year 
were to bring  the policys cost up to the true cost of the risk associated  with insuring Mrs Ms 
property, alongside  the levels of cover  provided, under the policy.  StAIP has also said that 
by 2016 it still hadnt fully recouped the discount that had been  initially applied.
So there were reasons  for Mrs Ms home insurance cost going up from 2011   2016. 
Importantly, the cost going up wasnt because  Mrs M werent engaging with the cost of the 
policy at each renewal.
And the increase in cost for the 2017  premium was due to the theft claim in 2016 which 
resulted in Mrs Ms losing  her NCD on both her buildings and contents cover. 
Mrs M, within her correspondence, has said she thought she was paying to protect her NCD 
 but I cant see that this is the case.  Looking at Mrs Ms home insurance schedules I can 
see that she held buildings insurance,  contents  insurance with accidental  damage and 
also contents plus (which  provides cover for money, credit cards, mobile phones,  bicycles  
and camcorders). There isnt anything  to suggest  Mrs M was paying an additional amount to 
protect her NCD.
Ref: DRN61391883Mrs M thinks  because  she ended up getting a cheaper policy  shows  she was overcharged.  I 
appreciate Mrs M cancelled her policy and obtained a much  cheaper policy  with StAIP. But 
this doesnt mean StAIP had been overcharging her. Insurers use different pricing and risk 
models over time, so a policy taken out some time ago wont  be priced  the same way as a 
different product taken out many  years later. 
Also, the new insurance she got with StAIP would have been heavily discounted. As I have 
explained above, I think it's fair that an insurer recoups that discount over the subsequent 
years. I dont think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain that discount for the duration 
someone has their policy. So the new policy Mrs M obtained, while cheaper at the outset, is 
likely to increase in price  as well.
So I dont  think it is fair to compare the policy Mrs M initially took out with the revised 
insurance product  StAIP introduced many years  later.
Mrs M did engage with StAIP about the policy in 2014, which  resulted in a discount being  
applied. Mrs M thinks StAIP had an obligation, as she was a loyal customer, to switch  her to 
the alternative product, or at the least tell her about the alternative product, when it became 
available. 
I understand Mrs Ms frustrations, but StAIP wasnt a broker   whose obligations were to 
shop around each year for its consumers. StAIP provided an insurance policy   and many 
years later introduced another  product   that was different to its existing one. Theres no 
requirement for StAIP to automatically switch its existing customer  base on to the new policy 
 indeed, this might not be right for all customers. Also, when Mrs M contacted StAIP  in 
2014, the new insurance product wasnt available. The new insurance product only became 
available in 2016. 
There are now rules  (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers  should,  in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve  had their policy  for a number 
of years.  These rules didnt exist when StAIPs alternative policy  became available  in 2016  
and even if they had, they dont go as far as to say insurers need to tell their customers 
about alternative products. So I dont think StAIP needed to tell Mrs M about the new product  
when it was introduced  in 2016.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.  
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6139188