K821x#15complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about ongoing advice charges deduced from his ISA and pension plan 
between March 2013 and May 2018  and paid to SW Wealth  Limited (SWF).  
background
Mr T doesnt recall agreeing to ongoing advice  charges. He emailed SWF in early July 2018 
saying he and his wife had surprised to discover theyd been charged ongoing advice fees 
for the last five years. They complained they hadnt  been notified of the charges and werent 
able to detect  them as theyd been deducted directly from the investments. SWF didnt 
uphold the complaint and wasnt  prepared to refund the ongoing adviser charges. 
The complaint was referred  to us. It was investigated by one of our adjudicators.  He issued 
his view on 6 March  2020. In his summary of the facts he noted that the ISAs had been set 
up prior to Mr T becoming a client of SWF but SWF had completed a transfer of agency  in 
February 2013. Mr Ts Prudential pension  plan was established in February  2013.  Ongoing 
advice charges commenced  from March 2013. 
The adjudicator referred  to the application form for the pension and the illustration, both of 
which showed an ongoing advice charge. SWF had also provided us with a service  
agreement and fee schedule. But it was dated  21 May 2015  and unsigned. SWF had been 
unable to provide  a copy of its suitability letter. SWF said that was due to several changes to 
their systems. SWF maintained it would have been provided as it was a regulatory 
requirement.
The adjudicator also noted that, since setting up the Prudential plan and completing a 
transfer of agency,  Mr T hadnt had a review  meeting with his adviser and wasnt expecting 
one. Hed said his original  adviser (a predecessor firm of SWF) didnt charge him an ongoing 
advice fee and hed thought this would continue  following the merger  hed got a letter in 
September 2012 which said his current arrangements and services would continue  as 
normal. 
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. He considered,  on balance, that there wasnt enough 
evidence that Mr T had understood the nature of the ongoing service charge  and had 
knowingly agreed to it. 
SWF didnt accept the adjudicators view. It made  the following points:
It had provided evidence that Mr T was made  aware of and agreed to the ongoing 
adviser charges.  The annual  review  documents sent to him each year clearly 
explained the purpose of the review.
It had found  a further letter headed  Client Review  Reply  Form dated July 2017 
which had been signed by Mr T and his wife. There was some  engagement in the 
review process between Mr T and the adviser. 
It requested a copy of the letter dated  27 September 2012  sent by SWF  to Mr T 
which the adjudicator had referred  to (and which we supplied).  
It was disappointed that it had been  unable to locate a copy  of the suitability report. 
But, on the balance  of probabilities, it believed it was fair to assume  that, as a well 
established advisory firm, it would adhere to the regulators  requirements  and provide 
the client with a suitability report which would explain the costs, and specifically the 
Ref: DRN61000872ongoing adviser charges, associated with the recommendations. SWF said Mr T 
might have a copy of the document.  
The adjudicator shared  what SWF had said with Mr T. He said he didnt have a copy  of the 
July 2017 document and didnt recall  receiving it. But at the time, knowing that SWF  had 
access to their investment  providers,  he and his wife would have seen the document as 
SWF simply wanting  to update its records. Mr T said it was another example of 
correspondence from SWF that didnt mention it was charging fees on a monthly basis.  
As agreement couldnt be reached the case has been referred  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts complaint is that he wasnt made aware  that SWF was taking ongoing advice fees. Its 
for SWF to show  that Mr T was made  aware  of and agreed to that.  
SWF asked Mr T in April 2019  if he had a copy of the 2013 recommendation letter. Mr T 
provided Prudentials  key facts and illustration. He didnt  have a copy of the suitability report. 
I think the suitability  report (or lack thereof) is key. It would have set out the basis  for SWFs  
advice and recommendations and the costs and charges that Mr T would incur if he went  
ahead. I dont think Mr T could have  made  a fully informed  decision as to whether to proceed 
without knowing the costs involved,  including  any ongoing fees. I know  SWF says a 
suitability report would  have been  provided.  But unless a copy  can be produced I dont see it 
would be fair to proceed on the assumption  that a report was provided to Mr T and that it 
clearly set out the charges, including the ongoing adviser fee. Without  the suitability report  
its difficult to be satisfied  that Mr T was fully informed about the charges from the outset. 
Fees are sometimes set out additionally or separately in a fee agreement. There  is a service 
agreement and fee schedule. According  to SWF Mr T selected option  4  a Comprehensive 
On-going Review Service.  And theres  reference in the document  to an ongoing adviser 
charge of 0.50% (paid on pro rata basis in arrears) and which, for a portfolio of £230,700, 
would be £96.13, paid from the funds held. 
But the agreement  was dated  21 January 2015. And it hadnt been signed   either by SWF 
or Mr T and his wife. I dont think it helps SWF in establishing that Mr T had agreed  to an 
ongoing service  charge  in 2013 or indeed in 2015.  
The primary responsibility for making  Mr T aware of SWFs charges rested with SWF itself. 
That said,  wed also look at information  from other  sources and which  might lead us to 
conclude that the consumer was or should  have been aware  of something, even we cant be 
sure that the adviser drew  attention to it. 
SWF has pointed to the Prudential Flexible Retirement Plan application form which Mr T 
signed on 1 February  2013. Section 9 (page 14) deals with transfers and adviser charge 
instructions. Ongoing adviser charges  of 0.5%  of the fund value each year are shown. 
The form is lengthy  some 24 pages  in total.  Its complicated. Id assume it was filled in by 
the adviser before Mr T signed it. I can understand that Mr T would have relied  on the 
Ref: DRN61000873adviser to complete the form. The extent to which the content of the form may have been  
discussed and specific provisions highlighted isnt clear. I cant be certain that the ongoing 
adviser charge  was brought  to Mr Ts attention. SWF may say that Mr T should  have made 
sure hed read and fully understood the form before signing it. But I think  he was entitled to 
expect the form to have  been completed  in accordance with what  he thought  had been  
agreed. Without the suitability report I cant be sure Mr T had been made aware of the 
ongoing adviser charge. 
Ive also seen the illustration dated  30 January 2013, which also showed an ongoing advice 
charge. Under  the heading,  What  are the charges?, the illustration set out product and 
adviser charges.  The latter section said that an ongoing adviser charge of 0.50%  of the fund 
value each year, payable  monthly, would be deducted. And an example was given of the 
charge was given.  But that was on page 11 of the illustration,  which ran to 14 pages. I think 
Mr T could  easily  have  overlooked it. The same  applies to any statements Mr T received 
from the investment  platform.
I also think Mr Ts relationship with SWFs predecessors is also relevant. He hadnt  been 
charged an ongoing advice fee and the letter hed got in September  2012 indicated hed 
continue to receive the same service. He wouldnt  have been expecting  to enter into a 
different agreement with SWF. I dont see hed have actively  sought  ongoing  advice or been  
prepared to pay for it. 
Ive also considered the document  which SWF  provided in response  to the adjudicators  
view. I dont think it assists much. I accept what Mr T says about it  that he and his wife 
thought it was just to update SWFs records. 
I note that Mr T had no annual review  meetings.  But SWF  did write to him and his wife in 
July each year as part of SWFs annual review process. Ive also seen that SWF sent 
consolidated valuations. SWF recognised  that Mr T would have received individual 
valuations but these would have been at different times of the years and SWF saw a value 
(even if Mr T didnt) of providing an overall  picture.  SWF also asked Mr T to update his 
financial details and invited him to contact  SWF  to arrange a meeting if required. 
I dont think there was anything to alert Mr T to the fact that these were services  which  SWT 
didnt undertake for all its clients  and for which he was paying. But SWF  did carry out work  
for Mr T in return for the fee it was charging  him. If those fees are refunded  SWF wont be 
paid for that work. SWF may regard  that as unfair. But it was up to SWF to make  sure Mr T 
was aware of SWFs ongoing advice fees and that Mr T wanted that service and was happy 
to pay for it. If it didnt then it wont be fair to say that Mr T should pay for it and when he 
didnt avail himself of SWFs full services  for example an annual review meeting  because 
he didnt know he was paying for that and so didnt cancel the charges.  
All in all I agree with the adjudicator that SWF  should refund the ongoing adviser  fees. 
As the adjudicator suggested,  SWF will need to compare the value of Mr Ts investment 
holdings up to May 2018 had the fees not been deducted and refund the difference back  into 
Mr Ts respective investment plans where possible (and if not pay Mr T direct).   
To clarify, the date in May 2018 to be used should be 22 May 2018 (the date Mr T told SWF  
that he no longer  required  their services). SWF will also need to add a return  on the loss. It 
should do that by working  out the amount the investment would have been worth at the date 
of my decision if the amount calculated in the first part of the calculation had been  invested 
Ref: DRN61000874from 22 May 2018 to the date of my decision.  SWF should pay into the investment the 
required amount  to bring its value up to date taking  into account any available  tax relief and 
fees. Details of the calculation  should be supplied to Mr T in a clear and simple format.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. SW Wealth Limited must  redress Mr T as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6100087