K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Mrs O have complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester Plc (C&G) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr C and Mrs O took out a mortgage with C&G  in 1994. They took PPI at the same time.  In 
1999 they took out further borrowings  for home improvements and the PPI policy was 
amended to reflect this. The policy was in the name of Mr C only. 
If Mr C wasnt  able to work because of accident,  sickness or involuntary  redundancy, the 
policy would have covered the mortgage  repayments for up to 12 months per claim. It would 
have also paid out an additional  £3.00  for every  £1,000 Mr C and Mrs O had borrowed.
Mr C and Mrs O complained to C&G  that they had been mis-sold the policies. They  have 
said were told they had to have  the PPI in order to get the mortgage. They say they didn't 
need it. C&G  rejected their complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint but didn't think the PPI policy had been  
mis-sold. Mr C and Mrs O didn't agree with the adjudicators opinion  so the case  has been 
passed to me for final decision. 
In the meantime, C&G had told us it was offering to pay back to Mr C and Mrs O any 
commission and profit share it had been paid that was above 50% of the PPI premium.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Mrs Os 
case. 
Having reviewing this case  carefully,  Im not going to uphold Mr C and Mrs Os complaint. I 
know they feel very strongly  about this complaint so Id like to explain how Ive reached this 
decision.
Mr C and Mrs O have said they were  told they had to have the PPI in order  for the 
borrowings to be agreed. C&G have told us that the PPI was optional. So Ive looked at what  
both parties have told us along with the evidence that is available. Not all of the paperwork is 
available from the time of the sales. But its neither surprising nor unusual given how long 
ago the PPI was sold (over  20 years).  And businesses arent expected to hold on to such 
information indefinitely.  
C&G has told us that it doesnt have any evidence to show that the policy  was optional. But 
this absence of evidence doesnt necessarily  lead me to conclude  that Mr C and Mrs O 
werent told they had a choice about  taking it. When  evidence is incomplete and matters  are 
in dispute, as they are here,  I have to make my decision based on what  I think is most likely 
to have happened taking into account the evidence available. 
And having done so, I think that C&G made Mr C and Mrs O aware they had a choice  about  
buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN63170942PPI is noted on some  of the sales documents C&G has given us but, as C&G have said, this 
doesnt evidence  that Mr C and Mrs O had a choice.  
But I have added weight  to the fact that the policy was in the name  of Mr C only, and not in 
joint names like the borrowings. Mr C and Mrs O have questioned this. There isnt any 
record of why this was done  but it does suggest that there was a discussion about  the policy 
and how it would be of most benefit  to Mr C and Mrs O. I see that Mrs O says she had good 
employee benefits so it might have been  the case that she didnt consider it was of use to 
her. But I do appreciate we cant know this for certain - the sale was a long time ago and 
inevitably memories can, and do, fade over time. 
The sales  were carried out during  phone  conversations and followed up by post.  
Mr C and Mrs O cant  recall if they were given advice but C&G has told us it was its usual 
practice to do so. When making a recommendation for Mr C and Mrs O to have the C&G had 
to check it was right for them. And based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think it was.
Mr C and Mrs O were both employed  at the times  of the sales. Mr C has told us he would 
have received some sick pay from his employer if he wasnt  able to work.  But Mr Cs sick 
pay would  only have  been paid for a limited period whereas the policy  would have made the 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim, so for longer than the sick pay. And it would have 
paid out over and above any employee benefits, so they could have been used for other 
essential outgoings. Mr C and Mrs O havent  told us of any other financial means they could 
have used and the insurance  was intended to protect them  against  the unexpected.  I think  it 
could have given  them a level of comfort they wouldnt  otherwise have had. So I dont think 
the recommendation was unsuitable. 
As well as making a suitable recommendation, C&G also had to give Mr C and Mrs O clear 
information, and enough of it, so they could decide  if the policy was right for them.
C&G hasnt  been  able to show us it disclosed the cost of the policy  to Mr C and Mrs O. So 
its possible C&G could  have explained the cost and benefits of the policy better  than it did. 
But Mr C and Mrs O took on a significant  financial commitment secured against their home  
and the penalties for not making  the repayments  were considerable  even going  as far as 
losing their home. So the policy provided important protection,  at what  could have been a 
financially difficult time. So, for the same reasons I think the policy  was suitable, I think  
Mr C and Mrs O would have still bought it even if the cost and benefits  hadnt been disclosed 
as clearly as they could  have been. 
Its possible that C&G didnt point  out the main things the policy wouldnt cover  a pre-
existing medical condition for example,  which Mr C has told us he had. We asked him for 
more details about that and I dont think that condition would have  made it any more difficult 
for him to have made a successful claim on the policy. So while  I cant clearly determine  
what information was given to Mr C and Mrs O, doing so isnt crucial to the outcome of this 
complaint as I dont  think they would have done  something different, and not taken  the 
policy, had they been given all the information  they should have. 
I know Mr C and Mrs O will be disappointed  with my decision. But I would like to assure  
them I have thought very carefully about what they have told us, their circumstances  at the 
time and what we know of C&G. I am sorry to disappoint Mr C and Mrs O, but after taking all 
of the above into consideration, overall  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN63170943So C&G dont have to repay the premiums  to Mr C and Mrs O. But C&G have told us that 
it will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI. This is because  In 2017, following a Supreme 
Court judgment, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), issued some new rules about how 
businesses should  deal with complaints about  PPI. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share on the sale 
of a PPI policy   more  than 50% of the PPI premium   and didn't tell the consumer, then that 
was unfair.  And it created  an unfair relationship between the two parties. 
To put that right, the FCA has said businesses have to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
what the business needs  to do
C&G has to pay back to Mr C and Mrs O any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. C&G  should also pay back to Mr C and Mrs O any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
C&G should pay back to Mr C and Mrs O the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. C&G should also 
pay Mr C and Mrs O 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C and Mrs O can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C and Mrs O.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C and Mrs O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C and Mrs O 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6317094