K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  with their mortgage. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought PPI in 2002 at the same time as taking out further  borrowing on their 
mortgage. They applied  for the further advance and PPI policy  in-branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs S  it was in her sole name  only - for accident, sickness 
(the policy called these  two things disability) and unemployment subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay just under £640  a month  towards Mr and Mrs S mortgage 
(the policy covered the new borrowing and their existing  borrowing)  in the event  of a 
successful claim. It also provided an additional monthly benefit amount of £3 for every  
£1,000 of the original mortgage balance. At the time,  it cost around £37 a month. 
At the time of the sale Mrs S was employed as a book seller. She told us she was entitled to 
sick pay and had some savings  but Mrs S said she couldnt  recall the level of sick pay or 
the amount of savings. Mrs S said she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds records show that the PPI was cancelled in 2003. And following further borrowing in 
2007, the mortgage became regulated from this point until it closed in 2014.
Mr and Mrs S representative made  lengthy and substantial representations  on their behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs S representative  said:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
S representative believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN64542592The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
I issued my provisional decision of November 2019.  Here I said I was likely not to uphold Mr 
and Mrs S complaint  and I gave the parties the opportunity to reply with anything  further 
they wanted me to consider before reaching my final decision.
Neither party has replied  to my provisional decision.
Im mindful that Mr and Mrs S  whether directly or via their representative  havent  
provided me with a response to my provisional decision. But Im satisfied that it was received  
 it was emailed as well as posted to their representative. And they were given and 
reminded of the deadline for responses. So I think that if theyd wanted to reply they 
wouldve done so by now. I therefore think it is safe for me to go ahead  and issue  my final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs S. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; and nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
As I referred  to above, Mr and Mrs S arranged  a further advance  on their mortgage after 
mortgage lending  became  regulated in October  2004  this led to the whole mortgage 
becoming an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out 
in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A 
of that Act and the rules  and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints 
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN64542593The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs 
S case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN64542594-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both parties,  Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
I can see Mr and Mrs S have said theyre  certain that PPI was not mentioned, discussed or 
made optional  in any way during the meeting.  They say the adviser just presented them  with 
the paperwork and asked them to sign  they didnt know what they were signing for.
Lloyds has provided  copies of the paperwork Mr and Mrs S completed at the time. The first 
of which  is Mr and Mrs S further advance application form. Here I can see that at the end of 
this form under the heading Payment Protection Insurance there is a tick in the box which 
says I wish to apply for ...Payment Protection Plus cover. I have completed the relevant 
proposal form and am returning it with this application. 
Underneath this there was an option to tick a box to say that a quotation for PPI wasnt 
wanted. And this box is blank.
Mr and Mrs S then signed the above  referred to proposal form  I accept the adviser  most  
likely completed the information  on the form given this was a branch meeting. And this isnt 
in my view unusual or surprising. This form set out which party   Mr and/or Mrs S  required 
PPI and how the benefit should be split between them. Its written here that Mrs S required 
100% of the benefit.
Mrs S also signed a separate direct  debit mandate to allow the premiums to be debited from 
Mr and Mrs S bank  account.
In light of the above, Im not persuaded that there was no discussion or conversation about 
PPI as Mr and Mrs S say. The paperwork used language that would reasonably  describe the 
policy  including  the words Payment Protection  Insurance. The policy  was set up for Mrs S 
only and there is personal information  recorded on the proposal form  for example Mrs S 
previous employment  and answers to questions  about her health  and if she had other similar  
accident and sickness policies - which I think could only reasonably  have come  about 
following a discussion about  the policy and what it (broadly) provided.
So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs S didnt know  what 
they were signing  for. I think its more  likely  than not that Mr and Mrs S chose and agreed to 
take out PPI and that they did so without undue pressure.
 
Ref: DRN64542595did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mr and Mrs S say they cant remember if they received any advice. Lloyds said that it did 
and it recommended PPI to them.  Given  that I think Lloyds is best placed to understand how 
sales like Mr and Mrs S were conducted at the time  and because Ive seen nothing  to 
undermine what Lloyds  says - I think its likely this was an advised sale.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs S with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable for Mr and Mrs S. 
The adviser had information about  some of Mr and Mrs S financial circumstances as part of 
the mortgage application. And the PPI proposal form completed went  some way to try and 
establish whether  Mr S had a need  for the policy and whether she was caught by some of 
the significant exclusions to and limits  on the cover  by asking questions about  her wider 
circumstances  for example any health  issues and any existing insurance cover  held. 
But I dont think Lloyds  did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this because the 
available evidence doesnt tell me that the adviser asked questions about Mrs S entitlement 
to sick pay and how long she might receive  this for. And it seems they didnt ask whether Mr 
and Mrs S had any other means, such as savings they could use to make their mortgage  
payments for a period  of time.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs S as the sole insured met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs S ability  to continue 
to meet  their mortgage repayments would  have been put under strain if Mrs S wasnt 
working for an extended period  of time - even allowing for any sick pay and savings 
Mr and Mrs S say they would have  been  entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs S. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs S employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions  that 
could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
Ref: DRN64542596-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mrs S be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before she could  make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided useful 
cover given:
Mrs S circumstances, including her employers sickness and any redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to Mr and Mrs 
S home and the potential consequences should  they be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mrs S was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs S 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be  Im mindful Mrs S signed a separate direct debit mandate for 
the PPI for example.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell me whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs S representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
S. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
Ref: DRN64542597-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs S representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
This was an advised  sale, so Lloyds did have to consider the exclusions and limitations  of 
cover to determine if the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S. But Im not persuaded by their 
representatives views on the duty of utmost good faith. 
The duty of utmost  good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract 
to disclose material facts  and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be 
certain what a court  would  say  I think its unlikely  a court  would find that this extended  to 
the insurer having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of 
the limitations and exclusions  in the way Mr and Mrs S has suggested.  And taking into 
account the law, industry codes and standards of good industry practice  applicable to this 
complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  
either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
S. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs S would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN64542598The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mrs 
S was unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs S circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs S would  have been  
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs S would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely their expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if anything,  it 
is more likely than not that the policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than they 
would have expected as there was an additional cash payment as I referred to earlier on.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs S knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy   albeit  with time limits;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs S 
wasnt a permanent employee
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs S be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the 
policy. 
But as Ive already found, the evidence about Mr and Mrs S circumstances at the time of 
sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mrs S was eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
useful to them should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Ref: DRN64542599I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mrs S wouldve been caught  by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mrs S didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think Mr and Mrs S had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. 
And I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have  expected to make  a disability claim on the 
policy without first providing some evidence  to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if Mrs S was unable  to do both 
her job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view she might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mrs S was unable (through disability) to 
carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar  
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but based on what Mr and Mrs S have  told us I think they had limited  other  means to fall 
back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mrs S be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mrs S was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs S would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs S representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN645425910Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs S 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had things happened as they should have. So Im not persuaded it would 
be fair and reasonable in those circumstances,  to conclude Lloyds should  pay Mr and Mrs S 
compensation, as that would put them  in a better position than they would  have been  in if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2002  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs S representative says a court might  take if 
it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith.
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
Ref: DRN645425911my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 February  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6454259