K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that a car acquired  through a Hire Purchase Agreement with CLS 
Finance Ltd (CLS) wasnt fit for purpose. They would  like either  a replacement car or a full 
refund.
background
Mr and Mrs M say they took out a Hire Purchase Agreement  with CLS in February  
2019.They say within a couple of weeks of having  the car a loud noise started  coming from 
the front of the car.
Mr M says he took the car to be looked at and says the dealership told him both arms at the 
front of the car needed replacing. He says at that point  he asked why the car didnt have a 
full years MOT. And was advised MOTs are only renewed if they fall below six months  from 
when the car las had one.
He says in March 2019 the noise was still continuing  and getting  louder. He felt it was even 
worse than before the arms were changed
He says at that point  he contacted CLS. He had to make another  trip to the dealership to 
have more parts fitted at a later date. 
Mr M and Mrs M say they felt there  had been too many faults with the car over such  a short 
period of time and so asked to reject the car.
They also said they had suffered financially as a result of problems with the car. For example 
the cost of trips back to the dealership  and then having to use public transport whilst without 
the car. And they had suffered loss of earnings  during  this time.
CLS didnt feel it was reasonable to allow Mr and Mrs M to reject  the car on the basis  that a 
bracket needed securing after being  driven for more  than 10,000  miles. However during the 
investigation it agreed to take the car back and refund Mr and Mrs Ms £500  deposit. It said 
Mr and Mrs M agreed to this.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
He noted the problems  they had had. And felt it was likely there was a fault with the car 
evidenced by a diagnostic report Mr and Mrs M had sent in. 
But he felt that the offer that CLS had made during the investigation, and that Mr and Mrs M 
had accepted, to take back the car, refund the deposit of £500  and settle  the debt was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
He didnt feel he could  take into account  any impact on Mrs M as he didnt believe the 
finance agreement  was in her name.
CLS accepted this view but Mr and Mrs M didnt.
Mrs M said the agreement was in joint names. And said that she was disabled and she 
couldnt use the car as the vibration caused a lot of pain in her back  and legs. She felt CLS 
Ref: DRN63562562should be punished or fined as she didnt feel the company had treated them  very well. And 
that they had felt pressured into accepting CLSs  offer.
Our investigator considered these comments but didnt change his view.
He explained  that our role isnt to punish  or fine businesses but gave details of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  if Mr and Mrs M wanted to contact it about CLS.
He acknowledged  that the agreement was a joint agreement.  And Mrs Ms comments  about 
her health.
He noted that Mr and Mrs M wanted  more compensation. He explained that when we look at 
compensation we consider a range of factors  such usage of the car and what the business 
has done to put things  right.
He felt the offer from the business, which Mr and Mr M had accepted, to take back  the car 
and refund the deposit was more  than we would necessarily expect it to do in the 
circumstances. The fault identified was repairable. Mr and Mrs M had driven approximately 
10,000 miles in the car so he felt they had had fair usage of it. He also noted  that although 
Mr and Mrs M had had the car for seven  months  they had only paid four monthly 
instalments.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept this second  view.  They  disputed they had only made four 
monthly repayments.
CLS wished it to be noted that no evidence had been provided to show  that Mrs Ms health  
had deteriorated  as a result  of the defective exhaust. It felt it was unlikely that the problem 
with the exhaust mounting had caused any health  problems. That they had signed a form 
accepted the settlement CLS offered. It didnt  agree  to Mr and Mrs Ms request for additional 
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that there were some issue soon after Mr and Mrs M got their car. That 
the first repair didnt seem to resolve  the issue. And that a diagnostic  report showed  that the 
ongoing rattle was due to catalytic converter not being securely fitted.
We would  usually say a business has an opportunity to carry out one repair when an issue is 
identified. Its unfortunate  that the first repair didnt seem to resolve  the issue.  But I am 
inclined to agree with CLS that the problem, identified in the diagnostic  report,  seems  to be 
one that could be easily repaired.
However in order to resolve  this complaint CLS agreed to take the car back  and to refund  Mr 
and Mrs Ms £500 deposit as a gesture of goodwill.
Although Mr and Mrs M werent  happy  with the offer CLS made of taking  back car and 
paying £500 they made  that clear in continuing  their complaint through  us - they did accept 
the offer. They didnt  have to do so. Mrs M says she was pressured into accepting  this offer. 
But I havent seen  any evidence to support this.
Ref: DRN63562563Mr and Mrs M feel CLS should pay more compensation. We might typically  look at refunding  
some part of monthly instalments paid to reflect loss of usage of a car. But in this case  it 
seems to be that as the car had a mileage of 7,834 at the point of sale,  and at 5 July 2019 
when the diagnostic report was done a mileage of 89,791,  that Mr and Mrs M have had more 
than fair usage  of the car. So I dont feel I can reasonably expect CLS to refund any part of 
the instalments  Mr and Mrs M have  paid.
I also understand that Mr and Mrs M had the car for seven months but have only paid four of 
the seven payment instalments. Mr M has disputed this and said he would send bank 
statements in to confirm  more instalments were paid. But he hasnt done so. And in an email 
dated 8 July 2019 to CLS Mrs M made it clear no further payments would be made. So on 
that basis I think its reasonable  to conclude that Mr and Mrs M havent paid all of the 
instalments that they should have.
Mrs M has said she feels compensation should  be considered as the problems with the car 
exacerbated a problem  she had with her back. Unfortunately she hasnt given any evidence  
to prove  this. And in fairness to CLS she would need  to do so.
Finally Mr M has said he has lost earnings,  had to take time off and incurred public transport 
costs as a result of problems with the car. But again he hasnt given us any proof of this that 
I can take into account. 
We dont automatically award compensation. In this case I feel CLS has acted reasonably in 
taking back the car and refunding the deposit paid.  And as Mr and Mrs M have had fair use 
of the car I dont  think I can reasonably  ask CLS to pay any compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6356256