K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC play a message to her about financial difficulty  
every time she calls them. She finds this message offensive and it is causing her distress.  
Ms A would  like Barclays to stop playing the message to her. She would also like to be 
compensated for the time taken in making the complaint and the distress  and inconvenience 
caused to her. 
background
Ms A has a Barclays credit  card.  In July 2018,  she found that she wasnt going to be able to 
make a payment  towards the balance on time.  She called Barclays  and arranged  for the 
payment to be delayed.  She made  the payment before the arranged  delayed date. 
From that point, Ms A found  that, when she called  Barclays, an automated  message would 
play saying that Barclays were there to help and she could contact them if she was in 
financial difficulties. 
Ms A found this message  offensive because she wasnt  in financial difficulties and had only 
delayed one payment. Other than that, she had made regular payments. 
She asked  Barclays to stop playing  the message. 
Barclays wrote to her on 7 February 2019  (but Ms A says that she got the letter on 29 March 
2019) saying that the message was played to lots of customers and that they couldnt 
remove it for her. They said that they needed  to make customers  aware  that they could help 
them. 
Ms A wasnt happy with this outcome so she came to us. 
Our investigator found that Barclays hadnt done  anything wrong. He didnt think that 
Barclays did treat Ms A unfairly  in playing the message because it wasnt specific to her as it 
was played to lots of customers. As Barclays had agreed that they no longer needed to play 
the message to Ms A, he didnt think anything further needed to be done. 
Ms A wasnt happy with this decision so it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Ms A wont be happy  with my decision. Im not upholding  her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
I think that Barclays were acting responsibly when they played the message for Ms A. They 
should let customers  know  that they can help if there are any financial difficulties. 
I completely understand that Ms A wasnt in financial difficulties and manages  her finances 
well, as is clear  from her credit card statements. But she did delay one payment and I can 
see how this triggered Barclays to play the message for her. I dont  think  that it was intended 
Ref: DRN62420752to offend Ms A and Im sorry  that it has. I think it was played to try and help her. Even though 
Ms A knew that the help wasnt  needed, Barclays didnt  know  this and wouldnt know  this 
without doing  a full financial assessment. As they hadnt done this, even though  Ms A called 
and asked them to stop playing the message,  I think that it was reasonable of them to 
continue to lay the message. 
Once they were  assured that Ms A wasnt in financial difficulties,  they agreed to stop playing  
the message.  
Ms A says that they have  now stopped  playing the message. She thinks  that this only 
happened because  she cleared her balance. I think they stopped playing the message 
because they had agreed to do so in May 2019  and it may have taken some time to action 
this. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Ms A hoped  for. I hope  that Ive clearly explained 
why I have come to this decision.  
my final decision
I think that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted responsibly in playing  the message to Ms A and 
they have now stopped  playing it. So, I dont  require them to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6242075