K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Amtrust Europe  Limited caused them considerable trouble and 
upset due to the way it handled their insurance  claim  for damage at their home.
background
Mr and Mrs K made a claim on their New  Homes  Warranty for problems with their lounge 
floor. They mainly dealt  with the scheme administrator and the contractor appointed for the 
repairs. However, their policy is underwritten by Amtrust, which means  its responsible for 
their claim and complaint.  So for ease, I will simply refer to Amtrust  when  referencing  the 
actions of the parties involved.
Mr and Mrs K were  unhappy with a number of issues that occurred during the claim process, 
so they complained. When making their complaint, Mr and Mrs K set out a detailed  timeline  
of the issues they had experienced. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint Amtrust explained that the claims it deals with are 
complex and in this instance the claim took significantly longer than first thought  due to new 
issues being found and having to be addressed. It said the claim rapidly  escalated  with the 
works spreading to the whole ground floor. It said significant remedial works were  required 
and its contractors were presented with problems that were unforeseen and needed the 
input of external  professionals to investigate  and provide guidance.  
Amtrust also commented that although  the repairs were to be completed,  the house was 
habitable prior to Mr and Mrs K departing for their holiday. But it says it took into account 
their circumstances, particularly their health,  and extended their accommodation  which  
was above and beyond their policy cover.
Amtrust concluded that Mr and Mrs K had been treated fairly throughout the process  and 
said a significant  claim like theirs  is likely  to cause stress and anxiety to any home owner.  
However, Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with Amtrusts response,  so they contacted our 
service. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr and Mrs Ks timeline, along with Amtrusts claim history  
and supporting documentation. He thought  that Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. 
He recommended £350 compensation be paid for the trouble and upset  they had suffered 
due to the overall claim handling and delays. Our investigator made  the following 
observations:
There was a six month delay between Amtrust receiving Mr and Mrs Ks claim form 
and it agreeing to repair the damage, this was due to uncertainty  over whether the 
developer that built the property was responsible for the repairs.  However, Amtrust 
made regular contact with the developer to try to resolve the issue,  and it wasnt  
responsible for the developers failure to respond.
The developer  failed to provide its own report so Amtrust appointed a contractor  to 
carry out the works, which  were intended  to start four weeks  later.  However, the 
schedule of works then werent  agreed for more than two months.
Ref: DRN64284332This delay was due to the consideration of different repair  options   followed by a 
delayed estimate. Our investigator  noted measurements and quoted costs were in 
dispute for some time, and he thought it was unreasonable to take more than two 
months to agree  a schedule of works  particularly given delays were caused by 
inaccurate measurements.  He said Amtrust was aware the problem  had been  
ongoing for some time, and was causing considerable stress to Mr and Mrs K.
Mr and Mrs K moved into alternative accommodation, arranged by Amtrust, with the 
understanding the repairs would  take four weeks. They raised concerns about the 
cleanliness of the accommodation,  but their concerns  were  largely resolved. They  
also had to make their own parking arrangements as these werent available. 
Mr and Mrs K discovered the locks  had been changed at their property without their 
consent. They were  told this was due to health and safety concerns. But because  
they remained unhappy the locks  were eventually  changed back. Our investigator 
explained it was appropriate for locks to be changed on the grounds  of health and 
safety, but he also thought Mr and Mrs K should  have  been informed before this 
happened.
Soon  after the works started it was established  that additional works would likely be 
needed, and Mr and Mrs Ks accommodation extended. But four days before their 
original four weeks was due to expire,  they were informed by the accommodation 
provider that their stay was coming  to an end and they would need to vacate. The 
accommodation was later extended  that same day, but our investigator noted  that  
Mr and Mrs K had found the situation  extremely distressing  and he thought  the 
communication could  have been  better. He also said Mr and Mrs K had a similar 
experience when the accommodation needed to be extended a second time.
Amtrust eventually established  that the kitchen  floor also needed  to be removed, in 
addition to the lounge. Our investigator  acknowledged Mr and Mrs Ks opinion that 
this should have been established  much earlier  but he noted a claim had been 
made for the lounge floor, and concluded  that he wouldnt expect  an insurer to 
inspect other rooms.
The anticipated completion date was the day before Mr and Mrs K were  due to go on 
holiday  so because  they wouldnt have time to move back in to their home before 
going away, Amtrust suggested  they vacate the accommodation on the completion 
date, but move their possessions into storage  until their return. Mr and Mrs K were  
unhappy with this suggestion  because  it wouldnt  give them any opportunity to look 
for outstanding  issues before moving  back in. So Amtrust eventually  agreed to 
extend their accommodation  until after their return from holiday  which  our 
investigator thought  was reasonable in the circumstances.
Our investigator noted that when Mr and Mrs K returned from holiday and inspected 
their home, they identified a list of snagging  issues. But he understood that these 
issues were resolved within a month.  He also noted  they had raised other costs 
incurred during the claim, but these had since been settled. 
Ref: DRN64284333In view of the above  observations,  our investigator concluded that there  were  some 
aspects of the claim which could have been  handled better  specifically noting  the 
delay in starting repairs once liability had been established. He also concluded that 
there were a number  of instances when communication  could have been better, 
particularly with Mr and Mrs Ks accommodation.  However,  he didnt think that the 
delays during the repairs were foreseeable or reasonably avoidable due to the 
complexities involved. Overall, he thought £350 was fair compensation.
Both parties  disagreed with our investigator. 
Amtrust commented that the claim had cost £90,000  and over £20,000 had been spent on 
accommodation to ensure  Mr and Mrs K were happy and settled for the disruptive time they 
spent away from their home. It also explained  that the claims handler became seriously ill, 
so it had to appoint another handler  at short notice to oversee the remainder of the claim. 
Amtrust said that it had handled their claim correctly and didnt think any compensation 
should be paid.
Mr and Mrs K made the following points:
The measurements were taken three times,  including an occasion when Mr K was 
asked to provide  measurements.
The issues regarding the cleanliness of the accommodation were resolved by them 
after making countless phone calls to the property manager. They say they had to 
have the carpets  and oven cleaned  and organise a new fridge freezer,  pots and 
pans a few days  before  Christmas. They say all these  issues added to their stress 
and anxiety.
Their lounge, kitchen,  and dining room are all one room,  so they thought  that Amtrust 
should have known to inspect all of these  areas.  They say major delays could have 
been avoided  if Amtrust had opened  up the floor in the kitchen area, as they had 
done in the lounge  area.
Our investigator hasnt mentioned that when Amtrust decided to remove the kitchen 
area, in order for the works to continue on the following Monday, they were asked to 
attend the property over a weekend to remove all the contents of the kitchen units. 
Mr and Mrs K say the contractors werent prepared to remove  the items and pack 
them up, so they had to do it. They highlighted it was winter and there was no 
heating or flooring,  and limited insulation  and they are in their late sixties.
Our investigator hasnt mentioned that during the repairs  they were called by their 
alarm company early one morning due to the house alarm  going off. Mr K says he 
found an unknown  person  at the property.  He says he was informed by this person 
that he had been  given  keys by the foreman  whilst they were away.  Mr and Mrs K 
arent happy that they werent informed their keys were  being given to a third party, 
highlighting that most  of their personal belongings were  in the property. Mr K also 
says during the few days the unknown  person  was at their home he had to attend 
each day to activate  the alarm system, which caused more  stress and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN64284334When they returned from their holiday their home wasnt  habitable. They say some of 
the walls  were still being plastered, the walls  hadnt been painted, and some of the 
light switches hadnt been installed. They also say that after they moved back  raw 
sewage was coming down  the internal walls due to downpipes  not being correctly  
fitted, which caused more stress and anxiety.
They say they suffered  stress  and anxiety  due to the claim, and Mrs K had to attend 
counselling. They added  that this impacted their ability to enjoy their holiday which 
was to celebrate one them turning 70. They  also say they suffered inconvenience  
over and above what should  be expected  and they point towards countless 
telephone calls and emails.
In the circumstances, they consider  £350 compensation derisory.  But they would be 
happy to accept £700.
Because the parties disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
I have reviewed Mr and Mrs Ks timeline, alongside  Amtrusts file which includes copies of all 
the written exchanges.  A number of issues were  raised during the claim, which  went on for 
over twelve  months. But its not my intention to comment on every  issue,  Ill focus on the 
issues our investigator identified and the points the parties made in response.  
I will do so under the following headings:  first six months; scoping and related delays; other 
issues; and compensation.
first six months
Mr and Mrs K first notified  Amtrust of the issues at their home in November 2016. They were 
asked to complete  a claim form which was returned to Amtrust in February  2017.  Amtrust 
accepted responsibility for the repairs in August  2017. I have considered what happened 
during this six month period.
Mr and Mrs Ks policy has two periods  of cover. The developer remains  responsible for any 
defects that are identified during  the first two years, whilst Amtrust is responsible for more 
limited issues  that are identified during the following eight years. However,  within the initial  
two year period  Amtrust also assumes the developers responsibilities  if certain conditions 
are met, such as the developer not responding to a claim within a reasonable timeframe.
Mr and Mrs Ks policy documentation shows cover started in May 2015  and the developers 
period of responsibility ended in May 2017. Because Mr and Mrs K identified the issues  at 
their home in in 2016, Amtrust referred them to the developer in the first instance.
Ref: DRN64284335However, in March 2017 the developer disputed it was responsible.  It concluded the dates 
on the policy documents were incorrect because the property was completed  in 2013, so it 
said the initial two year period expired before the issues were identified.  After some internal  
considerations, Amtrust  remained of the opinion  that the developer was responsible as per 
the documented dates. Therefore, it requested the developer to investigate the issues at 
Mr and Mrs Ks home.
During April and May 2017 Mr and Mrs K chased Amtrust due to their increasing concern 
that the developer hadnt been in contact to progress their claim  despite being given a 
number of deadlines by Amtrust. They also expressed concern about the safety of their 
home and urged Amtrust  to take responsibility.
At this point, Amtrust did consider whether  it should  simply  deal with the claim  based  on the 
issues arising in years three to ten. However,  it concluded that doing so would likely leave 
Mr and Mrs K with significant uninsured losses due to the cover under this section of the 
policy being more  limited. So Im persuaded Amtrust was acting in Mr and Mrs Ks best 
interests by pursuing  the developer in the first instance.
If theres a dispute between the developer and the policyholder about  issues identified  within  
the first two years, under the policy terms Amtrust can provide  a conciliation service   and it 
decides the way forward. So due to the developers lack of response, Amtrust assessed  the 
damage at Mr and Mrs Ks home to determine whether the issues should be covered under  
the developers  period of cover. The visit took place at the end of May 2017 and its report 
was finalised three weeks  later. However, Amtrust says due to the complexity and sums 
involved, the report was subject to peer review  by senior staff,  which  delayed  its findings. 
Nonetheless, it concluded a defect  was present, and therefore the repairs  were the 
developers responsibility.  
In July 2017 Amtrust  sent its findings to the developer with a final deadline. The developer 
requested an extension to commission its own report, but Amtrust  declined. Because the 
developer didnt contact Mr and Mrs K to progress the repairs  within the final deadline, it 
confirmed it would now take on the developers responsibility, and pursue recovery of its 
costs from the developer.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ks upset  about  the six month delay. This is clearly a long period of 
time to be living with such uncertainty over repairs to their home, particularly given the safety  
concerns. But having  carefully  considered the timeline, and the correspondence  between the 
parties involved, Im persuaded Amtrust took reasonable  steps  during this period  apart 
from one period of delay.  Ill explain  why.
Under the terms, Amtrust assumes  the developers responsibilities if the developer doesnt 
respond within a reasonable timeframe. This timeframe isnt defined, but Amtrust had to 
give the developer  an opportunity to respond  to the claim  before stepping-in.  Amtrust did 
step-in, after about ten weeks, by assessing  the damage.  Overall, Im not persuaded ten 
weeks was unreasonable given Amtrust was chasing the developer,  and escalating  the 
matter in the background  and although  there were discussions  about when the cover  
started, at no stage  did the developer refuse to investigate. So during this period, Im 
persuaded Amtrust  had a reasonably held belief that the developer would consider             
Mr and Mrs Ks claim.
Ref: DRN64284336I also consider it reasonable that Amtrust gave the developer a further opportunity  to accept 
the claim based on its findings.  However,  after its inspection it took about eight weeks  for its 
report to be sent to the developer  and although I accept what  Amtrust says about the 
complexities involved,  Im not persuaded this length  of time was reasonable given the 
accepted health and safety concerns and the delays so far.
That said,  Amtrust  quickly assumed responsibility after finalising its report and declined  the 
developers request for further time  which was reasonable in my view,  given the damage 
had already been assessed by Amtrust as part of the conciliation process.
scoping and related delays
Amtrust confirmed it would assume  responsibility for the repairs  at the start of August 2017, 
but the scope  of works wasnt authorised for a further two months.  Mr and Mrs K are also 
unhappy that the kitchen  area wasnt investigated from the outset  which caused further 
delays once the work got underway.
Ive seen there were  a number of considerations and parties  involved  with the repairs, which 
caused delays  to the scope of works and costings being authorised.  I understand the works 
were initially  expected to cost around  £50,000, so its fair to say the repairs were relatively 
involved. In that respect, a period of delay is to be expected, in my view,  whilst the parties  
agree whats  required.
But having  said that, I do understand Mr and Mrs Ks upset about these further delays  given 
the history of the claim  particularly given part of the delay was caused by an issue  with the 
measurements. Theres also some acknowledgement  in Amtrusts file, and in its response  to 
Mr and Mrs Ks concerns, that there  were  delays with authorising the works. So overall,  Im 
persuaded some of the two month period was unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs K say further delays could  have been  avoided if their kitchen floor had also been 
opened up from the outset. But although I appreciate their strength of feeling on this matter 
and understand  their frustration, Ive not seen anything which persuades me Amtrust ought 
to have investigated the kitchen, or known  there  was an issue in this area.  The information 
Ive seen shows Amtrust originally thought the kitchen flooring had a different construction,  
and there  wasnt previously signs of issues in this area. So Im not persuaded it would be 
reasonable for me to decide Amtrust did something wrong simply because the issues 
evolved. 
other issues
I accept what Mr and Mrs K say about  the cleanliness  of their alternative accommodation 
and the inconvenience this caused.  In my opinion, the steps they had to take,  such as 
arranging for the carpets and oven to be cleaned, were unreasonable.  They  were  also 
without access to the secure parking  for six weeks  which meant they had the 
inconvenience of finding and using  an alternative.
Having been through  Mr and Mrs Ks timeline  and Amtrusts file its also evident there were a 
number of occasions over the twelve months when  they werent kept updated or responded 
to in a timely manner,  which  led to Mr K having  to do a lot of chasing. I appreciate  the claim 
had many moving parts, but their requests and expectations regarding  updates  were  largely  
reasonable, in my view.
Ref: DRN64284337Overall, I also accept  what Mr and Mrs K say about the trouble and upset caused to them by 
the lack of communication regarding their alternative accommodation, the change  of locks,  
and the third party working at their home who triggered the alarm.  Amtrust hasnt offered 
anything in response to these  points, which were documented in Mr and Mrs Ks original 
complaint letter. However,  whilst I appreciate the inconvenience of packing  their kitchen 
items, Im not persuaded it was Amtrusts responsibility to arrange the packing of their 
personal possessions   and this needed to happen so the works  could progress. They 
havent said anything  which  leads me to believe they werent able to do this.
I also understand Mr and Mrs Ks upset  that there were still issues at their home  when they 
returned from holiday, having being told the works would be complete. But based on the 
outstanding issues  they have described,  I wouldnt consider their home to have been 
uninhabitable, and its my understanding all issues were put right soon afterwards.
compensation
So to summarise, this claim went on for over a year, and the circumstances understandably  
had a significant impact  on Mr and Mrs K. However,  significant works were involved and a 
degree of inconvenience is to be expected. So what I need  to decide here is whether, on 
balance, Amtrust caused Mr and Mrs K trouble and upset due to issues that could have 
reasonably been avoided.  
Im persuaded Amtrust wasnt responsible for the majority of the initial six months  delay, or 
the delay caused by the discovery  of further issues in the kitchen area. But Im persuaded 
the time it took for its report  to be sent to the developer, and the initial works to be 
authorised, was unreasonable. 
Im also persuaded  that trouble and upset was caused due to issues  with Mr and Mrs Ks 
alternative accommodation, and some  incidents  of poor communication  throughout the 
claim. But Im not persuaded  Amtrust can reasonably be held responsible for all the 
inconvenience and upset they suffered.
I appreciate what Amtrust  says about the claim value and the amount spent on alternative 
accommodation for Mr and Mrs K. Im also sorry to hear that their claims handler became 
seriously ill during  the claim.  But Im not persuaded either of these things should be taken 
into account when  considering the impact of the service issues and the delays.
Having thought about matters carefully, overall  I consider £350 compensation to be a fair 
acknowledgement of the impact certain  issues had on Mr and Mrs K  issues that arose 
during the claim  that were, in my opinion, unreasonable or avoidable.
my final decision
I appreciate both parties will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive set 
out above, I uphold this complaint in part. My final decision is that Amtrust Europe Limited 
should compensate  Mr and Mrs K £350.
Ref: DRN64284338Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6428433