K821x#15complaint
Mr O has complained about XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limiteds handling  of his taxi 
insurance policy.
background
In early March 2017, Mr O took out taxi insurance through an independent broker.  The 
underwriter (or insurer)  of the policy was Catlin. The broker asked Mr O a number of 
questions. One of the questions asked was how many no claims bonus  (NCB) years Mr O 
had. Mr O said he had two NCB years. During a second call with the broker he changed that 
to three  years.
Another question  was to do with how many  accidents or claims Mr O had in the past five 
years. Mr O said he had two accidents  in June 2016. One had been settled as not being his 
fault, but he said the other was ongoing . He said he was dealing with the ongoing claim 
privately implying there was no claim against his policy resulting from that accident.
The broker  then sent Mr O a document called Proposal Form. That document  said Mr O 
should read it carefully to make sure all the details were correct before signing and returning 
it. The information in the document said Mr O had two NCB years. It also said both the 
June 2016 accidents had been settled. Mr O signed and returned that document to the 
broker. The broker passed on all the information  to Catlin.  Catlin were responsible for setting 
the premium and the terms  of the policy. The price  of the premium  was set on the basis  of all 
the information Mr O gave being accurate. 
Within a few weeks,  Catlin contacted  Mr Os previous  insurer and found out that one of his 
accidents was still open and that he didnt have any NCB years. On the basis of that 
information Catlin amended the policy and recalculated Mr Os premium. Mr Os premium 
almost doubled. Catlin  asked Mr O for the additional premium but when Mr O didnt pay they 
cancelled his policy.
Mr O didnt think that was fair so he complained.  Catlin  looked  into his complaint  but didnt 
uphold it. Mr O then brought his complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators looked into the 
complaint. He felt that Catlin hadnt  treated Mr O fairly. He felt that Catlin  were  wrong  to 
cancel the policy.  So to put things  right he said they should recalculate the premium on the 
basis of the original rate (not after the additional  premium was added)  and only charge Mr O 
pro-rata for his time on cover. As Catlin didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 1 March  2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. I must decide  if Catlin  have dealt with Mr O in 
a fair and reasonable way.
premium calculation
Ref: DRN69618232Although Mr Os premium did go up substantially once his policy  was amended,  I 
dont think he has complained about  the cost being  unreasonable. But for the sake  of 
completeness, it might  help if I explain that just because Mr Os premium increased,  I 
don't think  that means that Catlin have  treated him unfairly. When setting premiums 
insurers treat open claims the same as fault claims until they are settled. Thats  
because its not known if a claim will eventually be settled as fault or non-fault.  So 
insurers work on a worst case  basis by treating  an open claim as though it will be 
settled as the policyholders  fault.  That is what Catlin did when they discovered Mr O 
had an open claim.  And if later on the claim is settled as being  non-fault,  we expect 
the insurer to then recalculate  the premium with the claim as non-fault. In most 
cases, that results  in a refund to the policyholder.  Its usual for premiums  to be higher 
when the policyholder has a recent  open claim.  Not having any NCB  years also 
causes the premium to be higher. From  the information I have seen,  I dont think  the 
additional premium  was unfair or unreasonable.
declaring that he had two NCB years
Under the Insurance Act 2015,  Mr O had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
when he bought his policy. That means he needed  to tell Catlin about anything that 
would affect their decision about  whether to offer him cover, on what terms and at 
what cost. 
Mr O has told us that when he was asked how many NCB years  he had, he 
answered honestly believing that he had two years. He said he didnt think  the open 
claim affected that position because he wasnt at fault for the accident. Theres  no 
suggestion that the question asking how many NCB years he had was unclear and I 
think Mr O understood it.
Mr O initially said that he had two NCB  years, but later he changed that to three. It 
appears that he wasnt certain.  So I think he should  have taken steps to find out the 
exact position. The reasonable thing for him to have done would have been to 
contact his previous  insurer to ask them. Had he done that they would have told him 
that he didnt have any NCB years because of the open claim. I think he would have 
then told Catlin and they would have quoted him the higher premium from the start. 
But I think Mr O saying he had NCB years was a mistaken belief, it wasnt deliberate 
or reckless. I accept that he had no intention to deceive. 
charging the additional premium
As Mr O didn't answer the question  about NCB years  correctly he didn't make  a fair 
presentation of risk. And in those circumstances under the Insurance  Act, where the 
insurer would have  charged a higher premium had they known of the information that 
wasnt disclosed, the insurer can tell the policyholder that they will settle  any future 
claims on a proportionate basis. But if the consumer  isn't happy  with that approach,  
we think its fair to allow them to cancel the policy themselves.
But the insurer cant simply  charge an additional  premium, as Catlin have done. But 
we think its fair for the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of paying the 
additional premium  allowing  the insurer to settle  any future claim in full instead  of 
settling the claim proportionately. 
We think its fair for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres a problem and give 
them the option of paying the additional  premium in order to keep the policy  going  or 
Ref: DRN69618233otherwise to cancel  the policy themselves. Thats because  the insurer  cancelling  the 
policy, as in this case, will have serious consequences on the policyholder because 
they will have to declare  it when they want to take out insurance later on. And many 
insurers will consider a policyholder with a cancelled policy  on their history as a high 
risk.
In Mr Os case, when he was told he would be charged an additional  premium  he 
said he wasnt happy with that. And when he didnt pay Catlin cancelled the policy,  
which I think was unfair.  What would have been  fair for Catlin  to do would have been 
to tell Mr O that if he didnt pay the additional  premium they may reduce any future 
claims he may have proportionately  or that he could cancel the policy  himself.  But 
they did neither.  So I dont  think Catlin acted  reasonably.
To put Mr O back in the position he would have  been had Catlin  not cancelled  the 
policy, I intend to require Catlin to calculate Mr Os premium for the time he was on 
cover at the original premium rate. If he is due a refund Catlin should refund that 
together with simple  interest at 8% a year. A letter clearly  setting  out the calculation 
should be sent to Mr O. I also intend  to require Catlin to correct  the insurance 
database to show  that the policy was cancelled by Mr O and not by Catlin.  A letter 
confirming that has been done  should be provided  to Mr O. Finally, to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered, I intend to require Catlin to pay Mr O 
£150 compensation.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr O didnt  comment on my findings.  
Catlin said my provisional decision was unreasonable. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same for the reasons  given in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN69618234my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require XL Catlin Insurance  
Company UK Limited to:
Calculate Mr Os premium for the time he was on cover at the original premium rate. 
If he is due a refund Catlin should  refund that together with simple  interest  at 8% a 
year.1
Correct the insurance database to show that the policy was cancelled  by Mr O and 
not by Catlin
Pay Mr O £150 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr O has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman 
1 If Catlin pay interest and consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr O how much they have taken off. They should also 
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6961823