K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the way Inter Partner  Assistance  SA (IPA)  responded to his home 
emergency claim.
background
Mr E had a home emergency policy with IPA. On 7 December 2017 his boiler  failed and he 
had no hot water or heating. He called IPA around 17:00 and spoke to one of its agents. 
Mr E says he was told that someone  would call him within  two hours.
Mr E didnt receive a phone call and a few hours later called IPA again.  Mr E was told the 
office dealing  with his claim was closed  and that he would need to wait until the following  
morning. Mr Es call was then disconnected.  Mr E called several more times, all resulting in 
his calls being disconnected before he was given any more  information. The final time Mr E 
called he was again told that he would  need to wait until the following morning but was also 
informed that he was covered for up to £1,000  if Mr E wanted to use his own engineer. But 
as it was 21:30 by that time,  Mr E was unable to contact his own engineer so he says he had 
no option but to wait until the following morning. Mr E says this subjected his family to 
unnecessary risk in a very cold house.
The following  morning IPA contacted Mr E and an appointment was booked for an engineer 
to attend later that day. He also had a conversation with IPA about his concerns regarding 
the way his claim had been handled.  During this call he was told the information he was 
given about using his own engineer was incorrect  only £150  was authorised initially to 
diagnose the problem. Mr E later arranged for his own engineer to attend. The engineer  
diagnosed the problem  but when he called to get authorisation for the boiler to be fixed while  
his engineer was there, he wasnt able to speak  to someone that could  authorise  the works  
before they were  carried out. Mr E was eventually able to get his boiler fixed and has been 
reimbursed for the cost of this.
Mr E is unhappy with the customer service he received, the response time to his emergency 
and the fact that he was not offered alternative  accommodation despite  the fact that there 
were vulnerable people and an infant  in the house. Mr E is also unhappy that he wasnt sent 
copies of call recordings he later requested.
IPA responded  to Mr Es complaint. It acknowledged that it had provided  incorrect 
information and that his calls were terminated. It explained that the first person Mr E spoke 
to should have informed him that he would receive  a call back to book an appointment within 
four hours and that the appointment would take place within 24 hours, which  is its usual 
timeframe for an emergency  call out. It also apologised that he wasnt  offered the 
accommodation allowance but explained that Mr E had told it there  was a heater in the 
house and it wouldnt  usually provide the allowance on the first night if there was some  form 
of heating in the house. It also offered Mr E £150 for any distress  and inconvenience caused 
by its actions.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She said that 24 hours  was a 
reasonable response time to an emergency  call out. And she thought  that IPA had made 
mistakes but that the £150 offered was reasonable compensation for those mistakes. Mr E 
didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN69273442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Mr E has said that he feels hes been  misled  and doesnt want others to be subjected to the 
same experiences hes had with IPA. If Mr E has concerns  about  the sale of his policy, he 
will need  to raise a concern with the company that sold him the policy  as this complaint is 
about the policy provider. And my role is to consider whats happened  during Mr Es 
individual. claim,  rather  than his wider  concerns  about IPA. So I will only be commenting on 
the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA has already acknowledged  that it didnt provide the level of service it should have done 
and it has offered £150 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience its mistakes 
caused. Mr E doesnt think this is sufficient compensation so I have considered whether IPA 
should offer more compensation.
Mr E believes his family was put at risk  and I dont doubt thats the case.  But I can only 
consider what actually happened, not what could  have happened.  And while I can 
appreciate that the night Mr E spent  without hot water or heating for his family must have 
been unpleasant and stressful, thankfully Mr E hasnt given any indication  that there were 
any long-term consequences of this for his family. And ultimately  Mr E was only without hot 
water and heating  for one night.
The policy Mr E has with IPA doesnt  give any indication about how long it expects  to be able 
to resolve emergencies. It has told us that its expected timeframe  is within  24 hours   and in 
this instance it has met that timeframe. But it wasnt clear about that with Mr E from the 
outset so it didnt  give him the opportunity to consider if there  were  any other options, rather  
than spending  the night  in a cold house. So I dont  think it provided the level of customer  
service I would have expected  to assist Mr E in this instance.
There is no doubt that Mr E received poor customer service throughout this claim. His calls 
were repeatedly disconnected, which must  have  caused additional stress at an already 
stressful time. He wasnt  given clear timeframes  for when it was expected  that his boiler 
would be fixed.  And Mr E wasnt sent the calls he requested in a timely way. IPA has already 
acknowledged these  issues.
Mr E says he should have  been offered alternative  accommodation for the night. His policy is 
clear that this will be paid if a "home cannot be occupied overnight because it is 
uninhabitable for a period  of over 48 hours due to an insured event. IPA has acknowledged 
that it couldve offered  Mr E alternative accommodation for the night   and I think that 
wouldve been particularly  good  customer service. But I havent seen anything in the policy  
documents to suggest IPA had to offer alternative  accommodation in this situation.
Taking everything into account,  I can see that Mr E was caused trouble and upset as a result  
of IPA not handling this claim well. But I also have  to consider that the event  happened  over 
the course of one night and the boiler was fixed the following day so this was a fairly short  
series of events. And while I can understand Mr Es concerns about his family being at risk, 
Mr E hasnt told us that this had any lasting impact on his family. So taking everything into 
account, I think the compensation IPA has already offered  Mr E is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and I wont be asking  it to do any more.
Ref: DRN69273443my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay 
Mr E the £150 it offered  him if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6927344