K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Santander  UK Plc failed to tell him that he could move his bonds  from 
Santander, did not give him the interest rate advertised, and required him to visit his local 
branch when he was unable  to due to his poor health.
background
Mr L has a bond  with Santander  (and formerly had two). He complained  that he was not told 
that when a Santander bond matured he could move his money elsewhere. He also 
complained that the interest rate was not as advertised,  and that the bank required  him to 
visit his local branch with some proof  of his identity, which he was unable  to do due to 
illness.
Santander did not accept that this was true. It provided statements showing what the interest 
rates were, and a Maturity Option Form  showing that Mr L had been given the option to have 
his money paid into an account  nominated by him. It said this form had been sent to him 
each year, one month before the bond matured (which happened  annually).
Mr L brought this complaint to our Service, represented by his son.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that the documents  sent by the bank 
were clear, and that the bank had been entitled  to ask Mr L to visit the branch so it could  
verify his identity.
Mr Ls son did not accept  that decision.  He said that the investigator had formed  her opinion 
after reading just one letter from Santander.  He asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The investigator did not base her opinion on a single document, and neither have I. I have 
seen bond opening statements for the years  2016  and 2018.  These  clearly  set out the 
interest rate, the opening date and maturity date, and the dates from and to which  interest 
will be paid.  I have seen annual account  summaries for 2017 (which  refers to the closed 
bond as well as the live one) and 2018. These set out the interest rate, the gross  interest  
paid during the year, and the account balance. I have checked  the balance  for the live 
account in 2017 and the balance in 2018,  and the balance  has increased in line with the 
interest rate, so I accept that the interest  rate is accurate and that the correct amount has 
been paid to Mr L.
I have also seen a template  Maturity Option Form of the kind which Santander says it sent to 
Mr L each year. In section  4 of the form, at the top of page  2, it says (emphasis in original):
Any money not reinvested will be paid into your nominated account within  five 
working days.
If you don't want to reinvest your maturing money and the details shown in 
this section  are correct,  you DON'T  need to return this form.
Ref: DRN67973232It then sets out the sort code  and account number for the nominated  account,  and gives 
instructions for how to nominate a different  account. This can be done  either  by phoning  a 
number or by filling in the account  details on the form and returning  it.
It seems  very clear  to me that this form does inform  the recipient  that they can move their 
money elsewhere if they wish. Mr L says he didnt receive this form, but I dont  believe  that, 
because the default option,  which happens automatically if no response is received, is to 
return the money to the nominated account. In order to keep his bond  going in 2017  and 
2018, Mr L would have had to return the form or otherwise respond to it and instruct the 
bank to reinvest his money. He did that twice. So I am satisfied that Santander has complied 
with its obligations  and has given Mr L all of the information he says he didnt receive, and 
that it paid him the correct interest.
Finally, the bank was entitled to ask Mr L to come to the branch with some identification. If 
this is not possible  because of his health,  then I am sure that the bank will arrange a home  
visit. If it refuses to do so, then he may bring a new complaint about that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. My final decision concludes this Services  
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L (or his son on 
his behalf) to accept  or reject  my decision before 13 October 2019.  But if we dont  hear from 
them, then we will presume that they reject it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6797323