K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Lloyds Bank  PLCC mis-sold them mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs G first took out PPI with their original mortgage in 1995. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  and Ill explain why.
But firstly I think  I need to try and clear up some misunderstands about what has happened  
so far with this complaint and how Lloyds  has dealt with it.
Mr and Mrs G first took out PPI when they arranged their initial mortgage in 1995.  In 1998 
they took out some further borrowing and again  arranged another  PPI policy.  Over the years 
they continued to request further  borrowing. Each  time they did this it was set up as a new 
sub account on the mortgage.  In total it looks as if they had up to 13 different sub accounts 
at one time or another.
Mr and Mrs G say they had PPI policies covering all of these sub accounts,  but thats not 
quite true. The PPI they took out in 1995 covered  the mortgage at that time.  Then  the PPI 
they took out in 1998 covered all the sub accounts  they had at that time. But when they 
arranged further  borrowing  after between  1998  and 2008, they werent sold new PPI and 
they also didnt  amend  the existing 1998 policy. It wasnt until they arranged  further 
borrowing in 2008  that the PPI was brought up to date. Mr and Mrs G were  sold a new PPI 
policy at that time which covered the remaining six sub accounts that made  up the mortgage 
borrowing. So, to recap, Mr and Mrs G were  sold three separate PPI policies on three  
separate occasions  1995,  1998  and 2008.
When Mr and Mrs G made a complaint  to Lloyds, they mentioned  that Mrs G had tried to 
make a claim for sickness but that this was turned down  as her condition  was considered to 
be pre-existing. In response Lloyds said that it was upholding the complaint and sent Mr and 
Mrs G a cheque for £2,929.07. This was calculated  on the basis that the total premiums paid 
were £4,804.58, to which interest was added. But, because Mrs G had made  a successful  
claim for unemployment which had paid out £3,239.79, that amount was deducted from the 
pay out. 
Mr and Mrs G say that this cant be right because they have had PPI since  1995 and 
calculate that they must have paid at about  £14,000 in premiums  in total.
Ref: DRN61141972But what  Lloyds didnt  make clear to Mr and Mrs G was that it wasnt upholding their 
complaint about  the policies being  mis-sold in 1995 and 1998. It was only upholding the part 
of their complaint  about the 2008 sale.
In 2008, the premiums were £64.15 per month and these went  down to £43.65 per month in 
2010. Based  on this, Lloyds calculation of £4,804.58 for the premiums paid seems  right.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs G have been confused about this. Lloyds didnt make it 
very clear that it was only the 2008 sale that it was upholding and it didnt  explain  why it was 
upholding it. However,  the calculations look correct.  Lloyds  were entitled to deduct the 
amount of the successful claim from the final figure.
Mr and Mrs G have also said that Mrs Gs claim for sickness in 2008  shouldnt have been 
turned down. This is a separate issue that doesnt  form part of whether the policy was mis-
sold or not. But as has been previously mentioned to the couple, had Mrs Gs sickness  claim 
been successful,  any claim  payment that she received for that would also have been  
deducted from the mis-sale payment that Lloyds made to her  so I dont think  they are now 
any worse off than they would have been if the claim had paid out.
I hope I have sufficiently explained why the amount that Mr and Mrs G received from Lloyds 
wasnt as much as they were expecting,  because  it didnt  include all the premiums that Mr 
and Mrs G had paid from 1995 until 2008.  It was only a refund of those premiums that they 
paid for the new policy they set up in 2008.
This decision will now deal with whether the policies that Mr and Mrs G bought in 1995  and 
1998 were mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs G havent  said that they didnt know they had the policies or that they werent  
given a choice  about having  them. On balance, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think that 
the policies were probably presented  as optional. It seems to me that Mr and Mrs G decided  
to buy the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to.
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs G to buy the policies. So, in recommending  the PPI to them,  it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs.  And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances in 1995 and 1998,  the PPI was suitable.
Mr and Mrs G have both said that their employers would have given them six months  full 
pay, followed by six months half pay, if they were  unable  to work due to sickness. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer  than they would 
have received full pay for. Mr and Mrs G also had some savings. But having  the PPI would 
have allowed them to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what  would have 
been a difficult  time.  And Mrs G has told us that her medical condition didnt arise until later, 
so it was not a pre-existing condition at the time of the 1995 or 1998 sales.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on the 
mortgage can be serious. So it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs G had an interest  in 
protecting their repayments.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information about the policies as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs G werent  affected by 
any of these things.  As I think  that Mr and Mrs G had an interest  in the policies and decided  
Ref: DRN61141973to buy them,  I dont  think that further  information  would have caused  them  to change their 
minds. So I do not consider that the policies were mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs G some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Gs became 
a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont  apply.  So Lloyds doesnt need  to refund 
any of the commission  Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  about  the PPI sold in 1995 and 
1998. Lloyds Bank  PLC has already  agreed that it mis-sold the 2008 policy  and has provided 
the correct compensation, so I dont require  it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6114197