K821x#15Complaint
Mr G complains a car supplied to him by BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited (trading as 
Alphera Financial  Services) (Alphera) was defective. 
Mrs G has acted on Mr Gs behalf  in his dealings with Alphera and other relevant parties, so 
where I refer to Mr G this should  be taken to include things said or done by Mrs G also.
Background
Mr G entered a regulated hire purchase  agreement with Alphera  in May 2017 for a two-year-
old used car. Under the agreement Mr G made  an advance payment of £800, which was to 
be followed  by 47 monthly repayments  of £248.11  and an optional final payment of 
£3,886.31 if he wanted to keep the vehicle at the end of the agreement. The cash price of 
the car was £14,500.
On 31 March 2018 the car was being driven by Mr Gs son, who reported hearing  a loud 
bang when he went to change gear, and saw sparks  and smoke coming from the engine 
bay. He stopped on the hard shoulder and got out of the car, which  was on fire. The fire 
destroyed the vehicle, which had had about  21,000  miles  on the odometer  at that point.
The motor  insurance  company  carried  out an inspection and couldnt  determine the cause  of 
the fire. Ultimately, the insurance claim in relation to the fire was not successful. Mr G 
contacted Alphera about what  had happened in May 2018,  saying that he believed a 
mechanical fault had caused the fire. Alphera  treated  this as a complaint  about the car and 
began an investigation.
The next month Mr G contacted Alphera  and said he wanted  to commission  an independent 
fire report on the car. Alphera  said it would be happy  to look at such  a report but couldnt 
help with the cost of it. Mr G went ahead  and commissioned a fire inspection report, at a cost 
of £1,500. 
As part of their investigation, Alphera  spoke to the car manufacturer,  which said the car 
wasnt defective and the cause of the problem had been an error by the driver.  They  also 
read the fire inspectors report, which concluded the fire had been caused by sudden  
mechanical failure of the clutch systemnotrelated to driver/operator  error.
In November 2018 Alphera said they would take the car back,  write  off the credit agreement 
and refund the repayments Mr G had made after the car had been destroyed  by the fire. 
Mr G was unhappy with this offer because it didnt include  the deposit hed paid for the car, 
or the cost of the fire inspectors report.  So he referred the matter to this service for an 
independent assessment.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Gs complaint. She concluded the complaint should  
be upheld because the car hadnt  been of satisfactory quality. She recommended that in 
addition to what it had done already, Alphera should refund Mr Gs deposit and cover the 
cost of the fire report. She also concluded  Mr G had been caused some  distress by his son 
being involved in a thermal incident, and that Alphera should  pay £150 compensation in 
respect of this.
Alphera didnt  agree. It said it didnt think the car had been faulty at the point it had been 
supplied to Mr G, so it didnt believe it was right to ask it to refund  his deposit. It also didnt 
Ref: DRN67517652think it was fair to ask it to cover the cost of the fire report because  it had specifically told 
Mr G it wouldnt  do this before he commissioned the report. Additionally,  it was up to Mr G to 
prove the car was not of satisfactory quality  as the problem had occurred  more  than six 
months after hed acquired it. Alphera  asked for an ombudsman  to review the case.
More recently, Alphera said it would look into matters again. Having done  so, it has repeated 
that it disagrees that the car was faulty,  but has offered to refund Mr Gs deposit in addition 
to what it had already  agreed to do. Mr G has said he doesnt  want to accept this offer so it 
now falls to me to decide the case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement Mr G entered into with Alphera is a contract to supply goods under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The provisions  of the CRA mean that Alphera,  as the 
supplier of the car, needs to make  sure it was of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied to 
Mr G. 
Satisfactory quality means the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  paid, and any other relevant 
circumstances. If the car in this case was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to 
Mr G, he has certain rights under the CRA. Depending  on the circumstances, these rights 
include the right to a repair or replacement, or to reject the vehicle  and end the hire purchase  
agreement.
Alphera has argued the car was of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied to Mr G. In 
support of its case it has said that the sudden nature of the mechanical failure, and the fact 
this occurred ten months after purchase, suggests the car was previously defect-free. It 
doesnt think it was likely  there was a slowly-developing but pre-existing defect which  caused 
the later failure.
Mr G on the other hand, has said there are known problems with this particular model of car 
and he believes there was a pre-existing defect which  led to the failure and subsequent fire.
Ive read the fire report commissioned by Mr G, which is 36 pages long and very detailed 
and comprehensive.  It is supported by photographic evidence and it makes logical findings  
based on the evidence the examiner considered. I see no reason not to accept those 
findings.
The report  concluded  that the most likely ignition source for the fire was the cars hot 
exhaust system, and the fuel source  was oil from the cars transmission. The examiner 
thought the evidence showed there  had been a sudden mechanical failure of part of the 
transmission. This had fractured the transmission housing, causing the oil to leak onto the 
exhaust, starting the fire. These findings havent been disputed  by either party.
The examiner made an observation about  part of the transmission, which I think  is of 
particular relevance  in this case.  He described the clutch pressure plate friction  surface  as 
fractured with many  of the segments missing.
Ref: DRN67517653The manufacturer recalled vehicles of the same  model, engine and transmission as Mr Gs 
in the USA. Similar recalls  have  been issued in South Africa  and the UK, with the UK recall 
including 2015  models. All of the recalls relate to the possibility of the clutch  pressure plate 
fracturing; in my view the recalls are linked and information appearing in one recall is 
relevant to the others.
The recall  in the USA was the most detailed. It explained that in certain circumstances the 
clutch pressure plate  could fracture or suffer structural failure, and that the issue  was 
corrected in production by changing  the material the pressure plate  was made of after a 
certain date. It went on to say that the pressure  plate  fracture  could lead to breach of the 
clutch cover  and transmission housingpotentially  leading to a leak of transmission  fluid 
[oil]. The manufacturer noted it was also aware of two reports  of fires in Europe linked to 
failure of the pressure  plate.
Although I cant be certain of the cause of the mechanical failure  which caused Mr Gs car to 
catch fire, I am struck by the similarities between the findings of the fire inspection  and the 
information given  by the manufacturer  when recalling cars of the same model, engine and 
transmission. On balance,  I think its more likely than not that the failure  on Mr Gs car was 
due to the problems with the clutch pressure plate outlined in the manufacturers recalls and 
it would  be fair to conclude the root cause of the fire was an inherent defect.
But even if thats  not right, I note the car was just under three years old at the point of the 
fire, and had covered a little over 21,000 miles.  I wouldnt expect such  a critical component  
of a car to fail, and in such a catastrophic  manner, within that time and distance.  The fire 
report ruled out driver/operator error, so I dont think the driver of the car can be held 
responsible for the failure, as the manufacturer has apparently suggested. One of the 
aspects of satisfactory quality as defined by the CRA is durability  in other words goods  
should last for an appropriate length  of time.  Taking  into account all the evidence  and the 
circumstances, I dont  think  the transmission of Mr Gs car lasted long enough before failing, 
for the vehicle to be considered satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied.
Ref: DRN67517654It follows that I uphold  Mr Gs complaint.  Because the car was destroyed  by the fire, repair  is 
an impossible solution, and I think it would be impractical for Alphera to source  a car of the 
same specification, age and mileage to replace  it. Allowing Mr G to reject the car and end 
the agreement  is the fairest solution  here.  He should receive a refund of his deposit, and of 
any payments which relate  to the period of time after the car was destroyed.
Our investigator noted Mr G had been  caused  some distress by the situation.  I dont doubt 
that Mr G would have  been distressed at learning his son had been in a car which had 
caught fire while he was driving it. Ultimately the fire, and the distress,  were caused  by the 
car not being  of satisfactory quality, so I think its right that Mr G receives  some  
compensation for this. I agree with our investigator  that an amount of £150 seems  broadly 
fair in the circumstances.
Finally, there is the matter  of the fire report. This cost Mr G £1,500 and Alphera have said 
they wont agree to pay this, partially  because  they told Mr G before he commissioned the 
report that they wouldnt do so. While the report is quite expensive,  it is highly  
comprehensive and its possible  a less-detailed report would have been unable  to identify 
the cause of the fire as a mechanical failure,  and the exact location of that failure. 
Without some evidence to support his case, Mr G faced  the potential  prospect of having to 
continue to pay for a hire purchase agreement for a car which  had been destroyed, and the 
expense of sourcing  another  vehicle.  The potential  costs  of this were  far in excess  of the 
cost of the report, so I dont think it was disproportionate of him to obtain it at the cost he did. 
Ultimately, its an expense  he has incurred  in proving his case  and so its fair that this is 
reimbursed. It would be unfair for Mr G to be out of pocket as a result of Alphera  supplying 
him with a defective  vehicle.
Putting things  right
Alphera has already agreed to take a number of actions to put things right.  If any of my 
directions below are things it has already  done, then it doesnt need to do them again. 
Alphera must:
Arrange for the disposal of the car at no cost to Mr G.
End the hire purchase agreement with nothing  more  for Mr G to pay, recording it as 
settled on his credit file from the date of the fire. Any adverse information recorded  in 
relation the agreement  should  be removed.
Refund any payments  Mr G made towards the agreement which relate  to any period 
of time after the fire. If payments were made in advance for the following month, a 
pro-rata refund must be given for any unused proportion of an advance payment. 8% 
simple interest per year* should be added to the refunded payments, calculated from 
the point at which Mr G paid them, to the point he is refunded.
Refund any deposit Mr G paid for the car, adding 8% simple  interest  per year* 
calculated from the date Mr G paid the deposit  to the date it is refunded.
Ref: DRN67517655Reimburse Mr G the cost of the fire inspection report, adding 8% simple interest per 
year* calculated from the date he paid for the report,  to the date he is reimbursed.
Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress  caused to him as outlined above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Alphera to take tax off this interest. Alphera must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr G asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  to take the actions outlined  in the putting things right 
section of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6751765