K820x#14complaint
Ms M brings this complaint as executor of the estate  of her late mother. Ms M is unhappy at 
the way in which Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires and referred to here 
as BM) dealt  with the mortgage account  after her mothers death. 
In particular, Ms M says that, as a result of delays by BM in releasing the charge it held over 
her late mothers  property, the estate has incurred expense and has lost rental income. To 
settle the complaint, Ms M wants compensation of £11,500.
background
I will summarise  the events giving rise to the complaint briefly. 
I am sorry  to note Ms Ms mother passed away in March 2018. There was a mortgage on her 
home in favour of BM. Ms M was named as executor in her late mothers  will. She contacted 
BM and asked it to freeze interest on the account. BM explained this wasnt possible without 
a grant  of probate.  
Payment was made towards  the mortgage  by Ms M between 6 April and 6 August 2018. The 
mortgage account was redeemed on 15 August 2018. The title deeds were sent to the 
solicitors on 24 September 2018.
Ms M says that, as a result of delays on the part of BM, the estate lost the opportunity  to rent 
out the property  for six months  for the period June 2018-November  2018  inclusive, at a 
rent of £1,850 per calendar month   a total of £11,100.
Ms M also says that she was put to the expense of supplying a letter  from her solicitors  
which cost her £360, and had to provide evidence from the letting agents about the lost 
rental income.
BM explained that when the mortgage  was redeemed, the payments Ms M had made  toward 
the mortgage  a total of £839.19  had been included  in the surplus  funds paid to the estate 
after redemption of the mortgage.  
BM accepted  it didnt redeem the account  when it should have,  it asked Ms M for documents 
which caused delay  and then when the mortgage  was redeemed it wouldnt remove the 
charge without a grant of probate. BM didnt  think it had done its best in the circumstances 
and so it made an offer to Ms M as follows:
£360.00 for solicitors  costs
£3.54 for postage costs
£5,550.00  for lost rental income
£52.22 net interest on lost rental income
This totals  £5,965.76 for monetary loss.
In addition BM offered  Ms M £750.00 for the distress and inconvenience  she was caused.
The adjudicator who looked at the complaint thought  the compensation of £5,965.76 for 
monetary loss was fair and reasonable. But he explained  that we cant  make an award of 
compensation to Ms M in her capacity as executor. 
Ref: DRN65912922Ms M disagreed, so the case has come  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  BMs offer is fair 
and in fact goes beyond what I am able to award.
First, Im glad to note BM has acknowledged  its errors in the way it handled the redemption 
of the mortgage.  All I have to decide is what is a fair and reasonable outcome to compensate 
the estate for BMs errors.
Ive looked at the timeline of events.  Having done so, Im not persuaded the estate has lost 
rental income for a total of six months. The evidence  provided by the letting agent doesnt 
support the contention that there was a tenant available  to enter  the property on 1 June 
2018.
I also note that, even after the deeds  were released in September 2018, it wasnt  until 
December 2018  that a tenant was able to take occupation. So Im not persuaded that the 
losses claimed by the estate are borne out by the evidence. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that the refund  of three months rent totalling £5,550 is fair and reasonable.
I agree  that BM should refund the solicitors  costs of £360 and the £3.54 postage costs. I 
also think the net interest of £52.22 is fair.
So Im satisfied the compensation offered of £5,965.76 for monetary loss is fair and 
proportionate in all the circumstances.
As far as a payment for trouble and upset  is concerned, I see BM has offered £750 for this. 
But I must explain that the Financial Ombudsman  Service doesnt award compensation to an 
executor for trouble  and upset. We can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble 
and upset experienced by their customer  not by a third party. And in this case, Ms M isnt 
the customer. BMs customer was her late mother. 
So although  I acknowledge  this was a difficult time for Ms M, I cant  order  BM to pay her 
compensation for the trouble and upset  she was caused. I leave it up to BM to decide 
whether it wants to honour its offer of £750  as a gesture of goodwill.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Im satisfied  that the compensation 
offered by Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Birmingham Midshires)  of £5,965.76 for 
monetary loss is fair and reasonable.  I make  no other order  or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M on behalf  of 
the estate of her late mother  to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6591292