K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited wont  fully settle a claim made 
following a burglary at his home.  
background
Mr A has his home insurance  through Lloyds. He was away between  mid-October  2018  and 
early November 2018 and on his return he discovered he had been burgled. Mr A had 
jewellery and other items stolen. Lloyds asked  Mr A to provide proof of ownership  for his 
items but he was only able to provide a limited amount  of information  mainly  a few photos 
of the jewellery  which belonged to his late mother.  During the claim Mr A complained  about  
the level of service he received and £150  compensation was paid to him.
Lloyds didnt fully settle the claim as they said Mr A hadnt been  able to provide evidence of 
ownership for some of the jewellery,  a watch and some valuable coins.  Lloyds also refused 
to cover the claim for his stepbrothers games console, games and games cards.  
The claim also included a laptop and laptop  bag, but Lloyds and Mr A were  unable to agree 
a settlement figure  for them. Mr A complained  to Lloyds  but they stood by their decision to 
refuse settlement  for the items where  no proof  of ownership was provided and maintained  
their stance on the games cards and laptop.
Our investigator didnt  agree with Lloyds  and felt Mr A shouldnt have needed to provide 
proof of ownership for all the items and the proof  he had provided  should  have been 
sufficient to accept  the whole  claim. He also felt Lloyds should pay more for the replacement  
laptop due to Mr A, in his view, providing  a more comparable replacement model. Lloyds 
agreed to accept the claim for the remaining items  of jewellery  and the games console and 
games. But continued to decline settlement for the watch, coins  and game  cards   and they 
felt the settlement they offered for the laptop was sufficient. 
As Lloyds  didnt fully agree with the investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me for a 
decision. The outstanding issues relate to the watch and coins,  the game cards and the 
laptop/laptop bag so I have considered  them separately below. 
Because I disagreed with our investigators view of the complaint, I decided  to issue  a 
provisional decision before I made my final decision.  This allowed both parties  to comment  
on my thinking before  I made my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsmans  
Services last word  on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr As policy  does  provide cover  for the loss of items,  which would include theft. And 
so the watch,  coins and game cards are potentially covered. But the policy does 
place certain obligations  on the policyholder  when  a claim  has been made. The 
policy says at page 9:
What youll  need  to give us
We may also ask you for proof  of ownership to support your claim, such as
Ref: DRN69896042oReceipt
oInvoice
oCredit  agreement  
oPre-loss  valuation
oPhoto
As the policyholder its for Mr A to show he has a valid claim under the policy  this is 
a general principle of insurance. As he is claiming  for items being stolen, he would 
need to show  ownership of the items  that is, its for him to validate  his claim. 
Watch and coins
Mr A provided a detailed  list of the items stolen and a brief description for the watch  
and coins he has claimed for. Mr A has been able to provide limited  evidence for 
some items of jewellery but he hasnt been able to provide  sufficient evidence  for the 
watch or coins. Mr A provided us with some paperwork relating to a watch, but I dont 
think its the same model as the one he is claiming  for because on his original list of 
items he names a different model  to the one he has provided some paperwork for. 
Often, insurers will accept photos of lost or stolen items as proof  of ownership or 
possession. And that might have been  helpful  in this case. But Mr A said the only 
photos he would have had would be on the laptop  which was also stolen.
I understand how stressful it must be to have a burglary at the family  home  and to 
lose a number of irreplaceable  family  gifts and inherited items.  But Mr A hasnt been 
able to provide  any meaningful evidence to show  that he owned the watch  or the 
coins that were stolen. Lloyds has settled (or agreed to settle) the claim for the other  
items stolen  and, on the evidence available, I think its reasonable for Lloyds to reject 
Mr As claim for the stolen watch and coins. Lloyds have offered to repay  any 
additional premium  charged to Mr A on the policy for the watch  and I think  that is fair 
in the circumstances. 
Game cards
Lloyds has now agreed to settle  the claim for the games console and games  so the only 
issue outstanding  on this part of the claim seems to be the games cards belonging to Mr 
As stepbrother. Whilst Mr A hasnt been able to provide any meaningful  proof of 
ownership I dont think  he has to provide the same  level of evidence as I would expect 
for the high value  watch and coins. He has provided  a photo showing the cards have 
been replaced. Lloyds have said they cant be sure that they were  the same  cards that 
were stolen but I dont  think  Mr A is trying to overstate his claim regarding  these cards 
and I dont think he would have paid for replacements if they hadnt been stolen. As long 
as Mr A provides evidence of the replacement  cost to Lloyds, I think  its reasonable for 
Lloyds to also make payment for this part of the claim.
Laptop/laptop bag
I have also considered Mr As claim for the laptop and bag. Lloyds said the 
specification of the laptops are the most important aspect and the brand is irrelevant. 
I agree  to an extent  but the specification  provided for the replacement laptop  by 
Lloyds doesnt  match the specification of the stolen laptop. Both laptops suggested 
by Lloyds dont  contain an optical drive  which the stolen laptop  had. The laptop 
suggested by Mr A from the independent  retail  store does include one, so I think  its a 
Ref: DRN69896043reasonable replacement laptop  that is as close as possible  to the stolen laptops 
specifications. Lloyds  has also already agreed  to provide a replacement  laptop bag 
so they should make sure one is provided or provide an equivalent settlement 
amount so he can purchase  one himself. 
Delays in settling the agreed parts of the claim
I note Lloyds previously  agreed to settle parts of this claim mentioned above but as 
yet I understand  they have not paid any further settlement to Mr A. So, I also 
currently think Lloyds should also add 8% gross interest per year to the outstanding 
claim amounts from the date of the loss. 
On that basis, I was minded to partially uphold Mr As complaint.
the responses to my provisional  decision 
Mr A responded to my provisional decision and said he disagreed with the conclusions. 
Mr A raised the following  main points:
the Navitimer was the watch stolen and this was a gift from his late mother.  Mr A 
provided a photo of him wearing the other Breitling  watch (Transocean) to show  he 
was still in possession  of this watch - he says he'd only looked at the Navitimer watch 
a few times and he was confused about  which watch had been stolen.
the policy says he may have  to provide proof  of ownership, but Lloyds should have 
specified that he had to  he feels Lloyds didnt make this clear. 
Lloyds has settled  some items  without  proof  of ownership and Mr A feels its unfair of 
them to be strict on some items  and not others.  And by agreeing  to settle  some  items 
without proof of ownership Lloyds have set a precedent so they should  now settle the 
whole claim. 
He now has concerns about how the claim for the jewellery was settled  he feels the 
settlement figures for the jewellery  could be incorrect because  the assigned  jeweller 
didnt sell traditional high street jewellery.  
Lloyds responded saying  they agreed  with the provisional decision and said they had settled 
the claim for the outstanding  jewellery  with Mr A in December 2019. They also said they 
would calculate  the outstanding 8% interest on the remaining  items  on the conclusion of the 
complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  again  about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  However I have answered the points put forward  by Mr A. 
Ref: DRN69896044Ive considered the further information  Mr A has provided about  the claim for the watch. Mr A 
says the watch was gifted to him by his late mother but Lloyds have told us that Mr A 
previously made a claim for a Navitimer watch,  gifted by his mother, in January 2018 so said 
it couldnt be the same watch. If it was the same model of watch  that Mr A had previously 
claimed, then its likely it would have been a replacement  he purchased after making the 
claim in January 2018  so I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lloyds to ask for some more 
recent evidence of ownership.  
I appreciate Mr A says there was some  confusion regarding the watch that was stolen but 
even if there  was Mr A hasnt provided any meaningful proof that he owned the watch  he is 
claiming for, so I dont  think  Lloyd asking for proof  of ownership was unreasonable  especially 
considering the high value  of the watch. 
The policy says the policyholder may need to provide  evidence  of ownership   its for the 
insurer to decide  if they feel further evidence is needed. As mentioned  in my provisional  
decision for low value  items it may be unreasonable to ask for the same  level of evidence as 
high value items. The coin collection was of considerable value especially considering  Mr A 
has said he wanted to use this towards a house  deposit, so I dont think is was unreasonable  
for Lloyds  to ask for proof of ownership  for the coins. 
Mr A says by accepting some of the claim without  proof (such as the remaining items  of 
jewellery) Lloyds has set a precedent,  but I dont agree. Its up to Lloyds which  evidence  they 
accept as proof and if they want to pay for lower value items  based on limited  evidence or 
without any receipts or other documents. In this case  Mr A has provided some  photos of 
some of the jewellery  so it would be reasonable for them to accept the claim for the 
remaining items. But given the value of the watch and coins, I dont think  Lloyds acted  
unreasonably as mentioned above.   
In his response Mr A has also raised  some concerns about the settlement already paid for 
the items  of jewellery. As per the terms and conditions,  Lloyds  can use its approved supplier 
to help settle the claim for these items  the terms say when settling claims, it will repair,  
replace or make a money payment.  If a money payment is agreed,  then Lloyds can deduct 
any discount they can obtain.  So whilst Mr A may not have wanted to replace the jewellery, I 
dont think it would be fair to make  Lloyds pay more than what  it would have cost them with 
their supplier.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr A has said, and although I may not have  
highlighted everything hes said in this decision, I want him to know  Ive read it and taken it 
into account. But overall, I dont think Lloyds acted  unreasonably in requesting  proof of 
ownership for the watch and coins. 
Lloyds have agreed to settle the claim for the laptop, laptop bag and the replacement cost of 
the game cards. And I also understand they have now settled the claim for the outstanding 
jewellery. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  Im partially upholding this complaint. To settle it, Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited should:
if theyve not already done  so, settle  the claim for the agreed outstanding items  of 
jewellery.
Ref: DRN69896045pay £749 to Mr A for the replacement laptop and either provide Mr A with an appropriate 
laptop bag or appropriate settlement figure  so he can buy one.
pay Mr A the replacement costs  of the game cards once he provides Lloyds with 
evidence of this. 
pay Mr A 8% gross  interest per year from the date of claim until the date of settlement 
for the items listed above  and any other items on which  the 8% gross  interest  has yet to 
be paid1. 
repay any additional  premium charged to Mr A on the policy for the watch plus 8% gross  
interest from the date of this payment until its repaid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs  rules may require Lloyds Bank General  Insurance Limited to take off tax 
from the interest elements  of this award. If Lloyds  Bank  General Insurance  Limited does deduct  tax, it 
must give Mr A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off.
Ref: DRN6989604