K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of his company  that I will refer to as R, that Allianz  Insurance  Plc  
unfairly cancelled  the cover for subsidence on its commercial property insurance policy.
background
R had insurance  with Allianz to cover a number  of properties owned by the company. The 
policy was first taken out through a broker in 2014  and renewed each year.
In 2017 Mr B, on behalf of R, made  a claim for subsidence at one of his properties. Allianz 
sent its contractors to look at the property. However during the inspection Mr B explained 
that he had made a claim for subsidence at the property on his previous insurance policy. 
And mitigation and repairs had been  carried out at the time by that insurer.
Subsequently Allianz declined the claim and cancelled  all cover for subsidence under the 
policy. It said that had it known the property  had experienced subsidence previously, it 
wouldnt have provided cover for this. Allianz said it was clear on the schedule  of insurance 
provided at each renewal  that previous subsidence claims should be declared. So it said 
Mr B hadnt  made a fair presentation  of Rs risk when taking out the policy.
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He said he didnt believe  that Allianz wouldnt have provided 
cover if it had known about  the previous claim.  He made a complaint to Allianz.
Allianz didnt uphold the complaint. It said the policy schedule and key facts  document  it 
provided when  R took up and renewed  the insurance clearly  stated that the properties 
should be free from any history of subsidence.  So it felt Mr B had not given a fair 
representation of Rs risk when taking out the insurance.
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He said he thought it was more likely Allianz would have just 
charged him a higher excess  rather than not offering subsidence  cover  at all. He brought the 
complaint, on behalf of R, to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
She said that Allianz had provided her with guidance  from the underwriters of the policy and 
this showed that it would have been  unlikely to provide cover for subsidence if it had known 
about the propertys history. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said on reviewing the paperwork Allianz had provided,  he had found 
some discrepancies  regarding the excess, which he thought proved it didnt  provide  accurate 
information. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has said that Mr B misrepresented Rs risk by not telling it about the previous 
subsidence claim at one of his properties. It says it wouldnt have offered subsidence cover if 
it had known about the claim. I need to decide if Allianz has treated Mr B, on behalf  of R, 
fairly by cancelling the cover.
Ref: DRN69926972In order to determine this, I have considered  the relevant law. Although  R originally took out 
the policy in 2014, each  renewal forms a new insurance contract  between  R and Allianz.  
Therefore I have considered the most recent renewal before the claim was made  in 2017. 
This renewal is covered  by the Insurance Act 2015.
Under the Insurance Act 2015,  when  R renewed  the policy Mr B had a duty to make a fair 
presentation of Rs risk to the insurer.  In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the act says 
a commercial policyholder  must disclose everything  they know, or ought to know,  that would 
influence the judgment of an insurer  in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what  
terms. 
In this case it is clear that Mr B knew about the previous subsidence  claims at the property.  
So I have  considered whether he ought to have known that this would influence the 
judgement of Allianz when it made  an assessment of the risk. 
I have looked  at the renewal documents Allianz  issued as part of the 2017 renewal.  The 
statement of facts states as follows:
Where subsidence  is covered  all properties  are free from any sign of damage caused by 
subsidence, ground heave  or landslip, and have no history of such damage.
This text also appears on all previous key facts documents issued at each renewal. I think 
this statement makes  it clear that Allianz  has made  the assumption  that the properties dont 
have any history of subsidence. So I think its reasonable that Mr B ought  to have known this 
was something he should  have disclosed.  
The next thing  I need to determine, under the Insurance Act 2015,  is whether the 
misrepresentation amounts to a qualifying  breach.  If the insurer  can show  that it would have 
acted differently if it had been provided  with the information, then it meets  this definition.  
Allianz has said that if it had known that one of Rs properties  had a history of subsidence 
then it wouldnt have  provided subsidence cover. It has sent us an extract  from its 
underwriting guidance  and I can see from this that subsidence claims would be excluded  
from cover. 
Under the Insurance Act, Allianz is entitled to offer cover on different terms if those terms 
would have applied  if it had all the correct information at the point of sale or renewal. As this 
is what Allianz has done by removing subsidence cover from the start of the policy, I am 
satisfied that it has treated R fairly.  As it has done  enough to prove that cover for subsidence 
wouldnt be provided if it had known about the previous claims. I therefore wont require 
Allianz to do anything differently.
Mr B has also raised concerns around the value of the excess agreed for subsidence cover  
for some of Rs properties. As he says he has been  given incorrect information by Allianz  
about the correct  amounts. Although I can certainly see there  has been some  confusion 
between Allianz  and the broker  over the correct  excess, I havent  considered  this as part of 
this decision. This is because it would have no bearing on the outcome of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont require Allianz  Insurance Plc to do anything differently.
Ref: DRN69926973Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B on behalf  of 
R to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6992697