K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr H holds with Blemain Finance Limited.  Hes 
unhappy that he still owes more than he borrowed,  even though hes had the loan for around  
nine years.
background
Mr H took the loan out in 2010;  it was for £20,000,  plus fees, making the total amount 
borrowed a little over £23,000. The security for the loan was a buy-to-let (BTL) property.
Mr H had periodic difficulties in keeping up with the repayments, and at one point, Blemain, 
as is commonplace  with BTL loans that are in arrears, appointed Law of Property Act (LPA) 
Receivers to manage the property and the loan. The LPA Receivers  added  their own costs 
to the account.  
More recently, Mr H has been making regular payments of £400 a month  higher than the 
contractual payment of around £268   to try and catch up. But he contacted us recently to 
say that he never really  understood  the loan terms,  and whilst he doesnt mind paying  
interest, Blemain is charging an extortionate rate and ripping him off.
Our investigator explained to Mr H that wed only be able to look at events  since 
1 April 2014, which ruled out the sale of the loan itself. When  he did that, he wasnt 
persuaded Blemain had done anything wrong. He identified various fees and charges, some  
of which  were applied  before  1 April 2014.  As to those applied afterwards, the investigator 
didnt think theyd been applied unfairly  in the wider  circumstances. He also pointed out that 
the activities of the LPA Receivers (including any fees they apply) dont fall within our remit 
because the Receivers  act for the borrower rather than the lender.
Mr H asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
For completeness, Ill explain why we can only consider matters since 1 April 2014. Our 
rules specify, amongst  other things,  what types of complaint  we can consider, who is eligible 
to bring a complaint, and which businesses fall within our jurisdiction.  Blemain joined our 
compulsory jurisdiction on 1 April 2014; before that date, we could only consider complaints 
brought against it in respect of loans regulated by the Consumer Credit Act, which isnt the 
case here. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Mr H. But although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep  my comments  to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Having reviewed the various fees and charges on the account Im satisfied those were 
applied reasonably in the circumstances. I say this because they were charged in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of Mr Hs account and were based  on the conduct 
of his account due to the arrears. I cant see that any were charged unfairly.
Ref: DRN68506362I appreciate Mr Hs concern that he still owes so much money  despite  having paid so much  
already. The figures  on the loan agreement are based on a person paying  all of the 
contractual monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. 
Clearly that didnt happen here as Mr H has been in arrears for much of the time. As interest 
is constantly being charged this means its not as simple as making  up the missed payment, 
theres also the extra interest incurred for every  day that payment is overdue. 
This interest  roll-up can add up significantly as Mr H has found. Thats not to say Blemain 
has charged interest on interest,  its just a simple  fact that for each delayed payment extra 
interest will be charged on the unpaid capital for every day it is late. Then  there are the 
charges for the unpaid direct  debits, missed payments and LPA Receivers  added  onto the 
debt.
The original  loan agreement shows  Mr H was due to make  240 monthly  payments of 
£268.58. So if Mr H had made all his payments on time, and nothing else had changed,  it 
should have cost him about £64,400 over the 20-year term. But as I said,  on top of that is all 
the extra interest accumulated because the payments werent always made in full or on time, 
as well as the fees and charges. This means much more interest has been charged  than 
was anticipated  when calculating the figures for the original loan agreement.  In summary, 
having very carefully considered this matter, Ive not been provided with anything  that shows  
the balance still owing  is incorrect.
We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction history and theres  nothing on there  that appears unusual  or 
incorrect. Of course, its open to Mr H to instruct an independent qualified professional to 
audit his account. But that would  have to be at his expense   though if errors were found to 
his detriment, he could  complain about them and his costs in discovering  them  could be 
taken into account  in putting  matters  right. But as things stand, Im not persuaded that 
Blemain has mis-managed his account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6850636