K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Atom Bank  PLC wouldnt agree to extend the term of their 
mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Atom over a nine year term, on a repayment basis.  
In 2018, they decided  to make some changes  in their lives. Mr H wanted to give up his job 
and start a self-employed  business, and Mrs H reduced her working hours. They  asked 
Atom for a term extension  to their mortgage,  which  would reduce their monthly payments 
and allow  them to make  the changes they wanted to make.
Atom refused their request. It said it wasnt its policy generally  to allow  term extensions   
unless it was necessary  because  of financial difficulties. Mr and Mrs H then said they wanted  
to apply because  of financial difficulties, so Atom  carried out an assessment  of their 
circumstances  and again refused the term extension.
Mr and Mrs H complained. They  said it wasnt fair that Atom  wouldnt agree the term 
extension. They said that when they took the mortgage out, they were  given a list of fees 
that Atom would charge for various things  one of which was a term extension.  They said 
this led them to believe they would be able to extend  the term in the future, and in reliance  
on that they agreed to a nine year term. Had they known this would never  have been an 
option, theyd  have taken a longer term. And they said that they could no longer afford the 
monthly payments  were their circumstances to change, so it wasnt  fair to expect them  to 
keep paying the higher amount. They want Atom to agree to extend  the term  or to waive 
the early repayment  charge (ERC)  so they can move their mortgage elsewhere.
Our investigator didnt  recommend we uphold  the complaint. So Mr and Mrs H asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the price list Mr and Mrs H were given when they took the mortgage out. It sets 
out all the fees and charges Atom  applies when a mortgage is taken out, and during its life.
Under the heading If you change your mortgage , theres a fee named Change of term. 
The heading  What this charge is for says Extending or reducing the remaining term of 
your mortgage,  and the stated fee is £20.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage offer clearly sets out that they were agreeing to a nine year term. 
Theyve explained that they chose this term because  they could afford high payments and 
wanted to pay the mortgage off more quickly. But theyve also said that they believed  from 
the price list that they could extend  the term at any time if they needed to on payment of a 
£20 fee.
I dont think the price list says that. It says theres  a £20 fee if the term is extended. So its a 
possible charge,  not a certain one. And the document says nothing about  the circumstances 
in which  a term extension  can be applied for, or whether or not it should  be granted. And 
Ref: DRN61568242looking at the wider content  and context of the document, I think the document  is clear that 
its purpose is to set out all the possible fees Atom  could  charge to its borrowers  and that 
not every  fee will be applicable to every  mortgage. I dont think  the inclusion of this fee on 
the price list can reasonably be considered  to amount to a guarantee that every  application 
to extend the term of a mortgage  will always be granted.
And I bear in mind that Mr and Mrs H were given  advice about the mortgage by a broker. So 
it was the brokers  responsibility, not Atoms, to make sure it was suitable  for their needs and 
that their possible future plans were taken account of.
In any case, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs H really were  contemplating a term 
extension at the time they took the mortgage. They were in high paying  jobs and deliberately 
chose a short term to pay it off more quickly. Their plans, needs and circumstances have 
since changed  in a way not foreseeable at the time  and I think  thats  influenced their 
recollection of what it was they wanted  at the time.  Thats  not to cast any aspersions  on their 
honesty; Ive no doubt they genuinely believe what they now say they wanted and thought 
about then. But human  memory is fallible and malleable, and can be subconsciously 
influenced by later events.  I think its likely Mr and Mrs H took out the mortgage  they wanted  
at the time, and it was only later they decided they wanted a longer term and lower 
payments.
So I dont  think the mortgage was mis-sold by Atom,  or that Atom misled  Mr and Mrs H, or 
that the price  list could  reasonably said to have led them to believe a term extension was a 
formality  or that they relied on a belief it was when  they agreed to the mortgage.
Nevertheless, they want to make  that change now. So Atom  has to give fair consideration to 
their request.
Atoms explained  that it doesnt generally  consider term extensions  as a matter of policy  
except where doing so would be appropriate  forbearance for someone  in financial difficulties. 
So it thought  about whether a term extension was necessary or appropriate as forbearance, 
and refused the application when it decided it wasnt.
The rules  of mortgage regulation dont require a lender  to agree to term extensions   though 
the rules do say a lender should  consider  whether its appropriate in cases of financial 
difficulties. So Atom  doesnt have to agree to a term extension. And I dont think  its 
unreasonable that it expected them to keep  to the agreement theyd made  unless 
Mr and Mrs H were in financial difficulties and this is the right form of forbearance. If 
Mr and Mrs H didnt consider the mortgage was right for them anymore,  they could have 
moved to another cheaper  mortgage with another lender before making changes to their 
employment and lifestyle.
That leaves the question of forbearance,  and whether a term extension is the appropriate 
way of dealing  with financial difficulties.
Its worth  saying  that at the time they applied, Mr and Mrs H werent  in financial difficulty.  
They could afford the mortgage. But Mr H was considering leaving his job to go 
self-employed, and Mrs H was considering reducing her working days. If they did that, it 
would potentially reduce their incomes   and could cause difficulties with the mortgage  
payments.
Ref: DRN61568243As Mr and Mrs H werent then in financial difficulties  and didnt have to change  their lifestyles 
and reduce their income, Atom didnt think a term extension  was necessary based on their 
income and expenditure at the time  as they could  still afford the mortgage.
Atom also considered Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances if they were  to make the change. The 
difficulty with that is that Mr H didnt know what his income would actually be if he went self-
employed, and there was a risk hed have  no earnings at all for a while.
The purpose of forbearance is to avoid  a payment shortfall, or where theres already a 
shortfall to allow  the borrower time and space to get the mortgage back on track. There are 
various ways of doing this, including a reduced payment arrangement, temporary  conversion  
to interest only and deferring  interest,  as well as a term extension.
A term extension would reduce the monthly payments. But it would commit Mr and Mrs H to 
paying a specific  amount  each month, albeit  less than theyre paying now.  If they cant then 
afford the new payments, they would still go into arrears and risk losing their home. So while 
a term extension might be the right thing in other cases, Im not persuaded it was in this 
case. Mr and Mrs H could  afford the mortgage  as it was. And if they changed  their jobs so 
that they could  no longer afford it, Atoms income  and expenditure assessment showed there 
was no guarantee  they could afford lower payments either  since Mr H couldnt say what 
his income would be or even whether hed have one. Once thats known, and if the mortgage  
isnt affordable on the old term but would be on a new one, a term extension might then be 
the fair thing  for Atom  to agree to. But while its not clear they can afford  to commit to a 
specific payment each month, it isnt. If Mr H goes ahead with his career  change,  hell need 
to keep in touch with Atom  and it may need  to consider a reduced  payment arrangement  
until things have stabilised.
Taking everything into account,  then, I dont think Atom has acted unfairly  in this case. And 
so I dont think it would be fair to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 December 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6156824