K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) wont cancel a fixed sum
loan he took out to pay for a training course for his daughter and wont provide him with a
refund.
background
In March 2018, Mr S paid £2,999 for a training course for his daughter using a fixed sum
loan with Omni. Mr S applied for the loan on behalf  of his daughter, as she said she was
unable to take out the loan in her name  at the time.
Mr S says the supplying  company, which Ill call F, didnt provide his daughter with the right
course material and that the course  was unsuitable  for her. So his daughter asked F if she
could cancel the course. Omni say F told Mr S daughter  that the course couldnt be
cancelled as the request was made outside of the 14 day cancellation period  which was a
term in Fs terms  and conditions.
Omni said the fixed sum loan agreement also confirms Mr S had 14 days  to withdraw from
the agreement. But as Mr S requested to withdraw from the loan outside  of this period, he
wasnt entitled to a refund and the loan wouldnt be withdrawn. Mr S complained  to Omni as
he didnt think this was fair. But Omni didnt uphold his complaint. Omni  also said they didnt
consider Mr S complaint under section 75 as this wouldnt have made a difference to their
outcome.
Our case handler said she didnt think Omni acted unfairly in not considering a claim for Mr S
under section 75. She said based on the information  available, it was most  likely the contract
for the training course was between Mr S daughter and F. And because  Mr S didnt have a
contract with F, she didnt  think the relationship requirements necessary for a section 75
claim had been  met.
Mr S didnt agree. He said its unfair  that he should have to continue  paying for a service
that was never provided to his daughter. So the complaint has been  passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Omni have said they didnt consider Mr S complaint under section 75 as it wouldnt
have made  a difference to the outcome. However,  in addition to looking at Mr S complaint
about cancelling the loan,  I think Omni ought  to have  explained their reasoning  for not
considering the section  75 claim, irrespective of the outcome. So Ive looked at everything
afresh and considered whether Omni have treated Mr S fairly and reasonably in all of the
circumstances.
Section 75
I must decide here what, if anything, Omni should do to resolve Mr S complaint. To do
this, I have to decide what  I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other
things) any relevant  law. In this case, relevant law includes  section 75 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Ref: DRN61349202Section 75 of the CCA provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit
agreement has an equal right to claim against  the credit provider if there  is a breach of
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
Whilst this transaction  falls within the financial limits of section 75, there are certain criteria
that also need to be satisfied. This includes establishing a direct relationship between the
debtor, the creditor and the supplier as set out within the CCA. This is often called the
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship, or D-C-S link and I need to decide if the link exists in
this case.
This means  the person  who paid for the goods  (Mr S), should have a contractual  relationship
with the company who supplied the goods (F), as well as with the credit provider
(Omni).
It is clear from the credit  agreement  that Omni provided the finance for Mr S  the debtor.
However, I can see the tailored training programme provided by F shows Mr S daughter as
the recipient of the programme. I have  also been  provided with a copy of the welcome pack,
which includes an enrolment  form. I can see these  documents  are in Mr S daughters name
and are addressed  to her.
The nature of this training course is for the course attendee, Mr S daughter,  who would have
had to carry out its requirements and complete an assessment at the end of it - its not in
dispute that the training  programme provided by F was to be carried out by Mr S daughter.
So having  considered all the information,  including the documents,  Im persuaded that this is
a contract solely between Mr S daughter and F. While Mr S paid for the course, its clear
that his daughter was the sole contracting party. And given the nature of the course was just
for her, I dont think it was part of Mr S joint affairs.  Even though Omni didnt explicitly  say
this was why they werent considering a section 75 claim, I dont think this has caused  Mr S
a loss because  as Ive explained,  I dont think he had the requisite relationship with F.
As I dont think there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in these circumstances,
Im currently  planning  to say that I dont think Omni have acted unfairly or unreasonably by
not considering  the claim under section 75.
Withdrawal right
I note Mr S comment  that hes continued to pay for something  that his daughter  felt was
unsuitable for her and that she hasnt been  able to fully benefit from. So Ive considered
whether Mr S would  have  had any cancellation rights,  either contractually or by law, that he
could have exercised in relation to the contract with F or with Omni.
Having looked  at Fs terms  and conditions and those on the fixed sum loan agreement,
along with the relevant laws about cancelling contracts, I dont think  Mr S had any withdrawal
or cancellation rights that he couldve exercised at the point he complained, as it was too late
for him to withdraw or cancel. Ive also reviewed the rest of the loan agreement  Mr S signed,
and theres no other terms in there  that, outside of the 14 days, would have allowed him to
withdraw or cancel it. Therefore, I also dont  think  Omni acted unfairly by not allowing him to
come out of the agreement.
Omni responded to my provisional decision and said they didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr S responded and in summary, he said that his daughter wasnt happy  with the service 
Ref: DRN61349203she received from the supplier, F. He also said on the assessment day, the assessor told his 
daughter that her training  plan was unbalanced and as a result, she didnt want  to continue 
the course as shed  lost confidence in F. Mr S said that F havent provided a service despite 
him paying for the training course for his daughter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said in response to my provisional  decision. However, as 
Ive explained,  because the finance  was provided by Omni to Mr S and because the contract 
was solely  between the supplier and Mr S daughter, I dont think there  is a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship in this case.
So, whist  I understand Mr S daughter  may be unhappy with the products and services, I 
dont think Omni have acted unfairly by not considering Mr S claim under section 75 for the 
reasons Ive explained.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6134920