K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about the refusal  of a claim under  his home  emergency  insurance policy. 
The parties will see that Ive changed  the respondent from Collinson Insurance  Services 
Limited to Astrenska Insurance Limited. 
This is because we have  no jurisdiction  over Collinson Insurance  Services  Limited  for a 
complaint about  the handling of this insurance policy, as it is not the insurer.  This is an 
important legal technicality but it does  not affect the outcome of the case  and as Collinson 
Insurance Services Limited  responded to the complaint on behalf  of Astrenska Insurance  
Limited theres no need for it to review the matter  again or issue a further  final response.  
All references to Astrenska in this decision should be read as including  Collinson Insurance  
Services Limited.
background
On 26 January 2019, Mr A called to report an issue with the heating in a property he rents 
out. I understand the heating would  only stay on for a few seconds and then cut itself off. 
Astrenska sent an engineer  out who apparently said he would come back  with the required  
part. However, after chasing this up with Astrenska,  Mr A was told that the claim wasnt  
covered under the policy. Astrenska said the problem was the result of a faulty  wireless  
thermostat and this isnt covered.
Mr A therefore bought  and fitted  a new thermostat himself. However he found this did not 
resolve the problem.  The fault was apparently with the radio  receiver for the thermostat. The 
receiver is fitted to the boiler itself. Mr A says that as it was not the thermostat  itself that was 
faulty, Astrenska should  cover  the cost of the part, the additional  expenses  he incurred and 
also pay some compensation  to his tenant  who was without heating  for days.  
Mr A says there was no way of bypassing the thermostat  and therefore  the boiler would not 
work at all. As the boiler was not working,  the claim should have been  covered. The blanket 
failure to cover thermostats is at odds with a policy designed to keep the heating on and is 
therefore an unfair restriction of cover.
 
Astrenska maintained its position but after Mr A complained  offered  £50 compensation, as 
its engineer should have  made the position  clear earlier  on.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He did not think  that the complaint should be 
upheld, as he considered the receiver was effectively part of the thermostat. As thermostats 
arent covered by the policy, he therefore didnt think Astrenska  did anything wrong by 
refusing to cover the cost of the claim. The investigator thought that Astrenskas offer of 
compensation was reasonable.  
Mr A does not accept  the investigators  assessment, so the matter  has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64667982No policy  of insurance will cover  every single eventuality.  Cover  is usually provided for 
certain specified insured events, subject to terms and conditions. 
Mr As policy  covers  the complete  failure of Your central heating system involving a boiler  or 
warm air unit. This is subject to a number of exclusions including  the exclusion of, any 
costs relating to the repair or replacement  of  wall or room  thermostat. 
There is nothing inherently unfair  with this exclusion and it is not uncommon  in such 
insurance policies.   
I can see the force of Mr As argument  that the boiler wasnt  operational at all as there was 
no way of manually overriding the thermostat. However,  overall I am not persuaded that this 
means the claim was covered. The policy is sufficiently clear in my opinion.  It excludes any 
faults with the thermostat.  It seems reasonable to me to deem this to be the whole  operation 
of the thermostat so the way it sends and receives signals. And there  was nothing to repair 
on the boiler itself,  so the claim cant reasonably be considered to have been a boiler  fault. I 
do not therefore consider that Astrenska  acted unfairly in refusing the claim. 
It follows that I also do not consider that it is responsible  for any expenses  incurred  by Mr A 
in replacing the thermostat and receiver. 
Finally, I can see that the engineer knew the fault was with the thermostat when he first 
attended and so Mr A could have been told this sooner than he was. I agree that the £50 
offered is reasonable compensation for this. I do not intend to ask Astrenska to pay anything 
further.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Astrenska Insurance  Limited  as I consider it has 
already made a reasonable offer of settlement in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6466798