K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Miss D have  complained about repairs undertaken  by Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited after their bath was damaged and needed replacing.
background
Mr C and Miss D made a claim in late May 2018  to Lloyds after their bath was accidentally  
damaged. Repair  contractors were appointed and it was felt work  would only take two days. 
The only work necessary  for the contractor  to do was to remove and replace the bath and 
remove and replace the lino flooring.
The bath was replaced on 22 June 2018, although the installation wasnt completed at this 
time and the bath couldnt be used. Mr C and Miss D noticed there was dripping coming from 
under the bath. Some isolation  of pipework was undertaken. On 25 June a major leak 
occurred with water cascading into the kitchen.  After this the property  had to be dried and 
more extensive  repairs undertaken before the bath could be reinstated. Work  was finally  
completed in October 2018.
Mr C and Miss D had complained to Lloyds prior to the second  leak occurring. It, at that 
point, agreed to appoint a single point of contact to help the claim progress. It offered £850 
compensation for delays and inconvenience  suffered  to date. When  Lloyds learnt Mr C and 
Miss D had complained  to us it provided  the update confirming  repairs were now complete.
Our investigator considered what had happened  between May 2018  and when the repairs  
completed. She noted there had been  significant  disruption and upset caused by Lloyds 
poor repairs. She said it should  pay a further  £250  compensation (in addition to the £850  
previously offered by Lloyds).
Lloyds agreed.  Mr C and Miss D did not. They felt a further £250 wasnt enough, given 
everything Lloyds  had put them  through.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Effectively, until Mr C and Miss D complained, Lloyds didnt handle  this claim at all. All it did 
was appoint contractors  and then left Mr C and Miss D to deal with it all. And the contractors  
it appointed did such poor work, further and significant damage occurred at the property. In 
short what, at worst,  should have been  a weeks worth of simple work, turned into months of 
disruption. Near enough everything Mr C and Miss D went through  following the loss that led 
to this claim could and should have  been avoided. Im satisfied that total compensation of 
£1,100 is fairly and reasonably due to them.
I know Mr C and Miss D dont think that amount is sufficient. But it is in line with our 
approach to compensation awards,  and other awards made by this service  in similar 
circumstances. Im satisfied that awarding  more than this figure would equate  to punitive 
compensation. It wouldnt fairly and reasonably reflect the upset caused. 
Ref: DRN60110752my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  Limited to pay Mr C and 
Miss D a total of £1,100 compensation. If £850 of this sum has already been paid, only the 
remaining £250 will now need to be paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr C and Miss D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6011075