K822xcomplaint
Mr R says Instant  Cash  Loans  Limited  (trading as Payday Express) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  Payday  Express  provided  to Mr R between  
November 2015  and April 2016. Mr R borrowed amounts between  £100 and £220 and they 
were each to be repaid  in two instalments. From what  I can see, Mr R repaid all his loans.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint in part and thought loan six shouldnt  have been 
given. Payday Express agreed  but Mr R didnt. He said he had a low income  at the time of 
the loans. And so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Payday Express needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Payday Express should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Payday Express  was required to 
establish whether  Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN67845412Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Payday Express asked Mr R for his monthly  income which he said was £2,020 for loans one 
to three, then £1,400 for loan four and about  £1,250 for his last loans. Payday Express  also 
asked Mr R about his monthly expenditure which he said was £1,275  for loan one and which 
decreased to £905 for loan six. 
I think these checks were  enough for loans one to four. The loan repayments  were small 
compared to Mr Rs stated income and looked affordable compared to his disposable  
income. So the repayments  looked  sustainable  and I cant say Payday Express was wrong 
to have approved  these  loans. 
I think further checks should have been made  for loan five as this was Mr Rs fifth loan in 
four months. But, from what  I can see of Mr Rs finances at the time, better checks  would 
have also found  that this loan was affordable for him. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan six would most likely have 
shown that Mr R:
Was having trouble  managing his finances;
His regular expenditure outweighed his income for this loan.
So the repayments for this loan werent  sustainable.
And so I think Payday  Express was wrong to approve loan six. 
putting things right  what Payday Express needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loan six
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan six from Mr Rs credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Payday Express to take off tax from this interest.  
Payday Express must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Ref: DRN67845413my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. I require Instant Cash Loans  Limited  (trading as Payday Express) to pay Mr R 
compensation as set out above,  as its already agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6784541