K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  about end of contract charges when her agreement  with LeasePlan ended. 
Shes also unhappy about delays  in collecting the car.
background 
Ms S was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with LeasePlan. The 
agreement ended in January 2019.  LeasePlan asked Ms S to arrange collection of the car.
Ms S arranged collection from her husbands  workplace and cancelled  her insurance.
On the morning of collection  the collection agent  contacted Ms S and advised her that it 
wouldnt be able to collect the car for another two days. Ms S says that because the car was 
uninsured she had to leave  it in a haulage yard over the weekend.
The car was collected and inspected  and LeasePlan asked  Ms S to pay damage  charges.
Ms S complained about the delay in collection and disputed the charges.
In response, LeasePlan said the inspection report showed damage which went  beyond fair 
wear and tear and that therefore  the charges were payable. In relation to the delay with 
collection LeasePlan apologised and compensated Ms S with a gift voucher for £25.
Ms S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought the damage fell outside fair wear  
and tear but noted that LeasePlan had offered to reduce the charges by a further £111.50 as 
a gesture of goodwill.  
Ms S didnt agree. She said she didnt dispute the damage to the wheel trim but she 
disputed the rest. She said the delay  in collecting the car had caused  her inconvenience. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Ms Ss agreement say that she must return  the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is her responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these are accepted  as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage  exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive considered the damage, which includes damage to the bumper, both front alloys,  a dent 
in the OS Qtr panel and a stained seat.
Ms S has said that she accepts the damage to the alloys.  But she disputes everything else. 
Shes provided her own photographs and says the interior  was valeted just before the car 
was handed back  which explains  why the seat looks stained whereas it is just drying out.
Ref: DRN62369142Ive looked at the photos but Im not persuaded that the damage is within  fair wear and tear 
according to the guidelines. Its difficult to see the dent in the bumper but on balance  I think 
there is some distortion there.  Ive thought  about whether the valet  caused  the stains on the 
seats but I think that any residual wetness would have dried  out after three  days  so on 
balance I think this is more likely  to be a stain.
Ive considered whether the damage could have happened over the weekend  before 
collection. On balance I think the damage  is so varied and widespread that this is unlikely. 
But even if it did happen over the weekend,  this doesnt change my view because  the car 
remains the responsibility of Ms S until it is collected.
Taking everything into account  Im satisfied that the damage exceeds fair wear and tear and 
therefore chargeable. LeasePlan has said that as a gesture of goodwill it will deduct 50% of 
the charges in relation  to the bumper and the stained seat, which  reduces  the charges by 
£111.50.
In relation to the delays in collecting the car, I understand that this wouldve caused 
frustration to Ms S. Shes said that she wants compensation for storage charges  but I 
havent seen any evidence that she actually  incurred any storage charges. I can see that 
LeasePlan has already compensated  her with a gift voucher, which I think  is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this aspect of the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6236914