K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about the way Lloyds  Bank  PLC dealt with a chargeback  request  in 
respect of a payment he made using his debit card.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 14 February 2020. A copy  of this is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As my provisional decision  has been accepted by both parties theres  no need for me to 
change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision my final decision is that I uphold  this 
complaint. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr A £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Charles Bacon
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN66425382Copy of provisional  decision
background
In November 2018 Mr A agreed  to buy a sofa from a furniture retailer (the merchant). The 
agreement was made at the merchants shop and Mr A agreed to buy a sofa that was on display in 
the shop. He paid a deposit  of £1582 using his Lloyds debit  card.
Mr A says that, after hed paid the deposit, the merchant stamped his copy  of the order as follows:
The discounted goods on this order which you are purchasing are ex-display and sold as seen which 
will be shop soiled and have marks  and abrasions.
Mr A says the merchant also told him the sofa would  be left on the shop floor for several weeks before 
he could collect it. He wasnt happy with this and asked to cancel the order but the merchant  wouldnt 
do this or refund the deposit.
Mr A contacted Lloyds. It asked him to send it details of what had happened with supporting  
documents and in December 2018 Lloyds raised a chargeback under  the rules made by the card 
scheme operator.
Mr A contacted Lloyds in January 2019 because he hadnt heard  anything. It explained the timescale 
for the merchant  to respond to the claim.  It accepted it had given  Mr A poor service  by not keeping 
him fully informed and it paid him £100 for this.
Lloyds then received a copy  of the merchants response  to the chargeback request. It defended  the 
chargeback because Mr A had agreed to the its terms and conditions which said the deposit was non-
returnable. Lloyds wrote  to Mr A saying  it was unable to assist him further with his dispute.
Mr A complained to Lloyds about the way it had handled the dispute. It repeated that it couldnt help 
him any further but it offered  to pay him another £100. Mr A didnt  accept Lloyds offer and referred  his 
complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  They thought the additional £100 
Lloyds had offered was a fair way to resolve the complaint. Mr A didnt agree  with our investigators  
recommendation.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback  isnt a legal  right, and isnt guaranteed to succeed.  Where there is a dispute,  the card 
issuer (Lloyds) may raise a chargeback under the relevant card scheme. Chargebacks are decided  on 
the card schemes  rules. The rules specify the circumstances in which a chargeback can be 
successful. 
Ive listened to a recording of the telephone call Mr A made to Lloyds to tell it about the dispute.  I think  
the Lloyds advisor should have explained to him that the chargeback was governed by the card 
scheme rules and wasnt guaranteed to succeed. But they didnt do this and I think  Mr A could  
reasonably have believed that Lloyds  alone would decide if he was entitled to a refund. The advisor  
also made comments about the action taken by the merchant which  could have caused Mr A to 
believe his claim would be approved.
Ref: DRN66425383I dont think Mr A could have  done anything differently if hed been given a proper explanation  of the 
chargeback procedure. But I think he was given  an unrealistic expectation  about the prospect of 
getting a refund and this caused him unnecessary  trouble and upset  when he became aware of the 
true position.
Mr A has referred to the fact that the merchant didnt respond to the chargeback request until the last 
day it could do this. But it still responded  in accordance with the scheme  rules. Lloyds  had no control 
over the timing of the merchants  response and Im not persuaded it could have  taken any action 
because of it.
Mr A has referred to clear  disparities between  the copy of the order form he had in his possession 
and a copy provided by the merchant. Ive looked at both copies and the main difference  is that, on 
Mr As copy, the stamp  containing the wording Ive referred to above appears twice. It only appears 
once on the copy provided by the merchant. Theres an alteration to the purchase price, but that 
appears on both copies.
The dispute  raised by Mr A isnt about whether or not the order form was stamped once or twice. Its 
about when the stamp was applied. It isnt possible to reach any conclusion  about Mr As comment 
that the stamp  was applied after hed paid the deposit from the copies of the order form as theyve  
both been stamped.  It seems that the second stamp on Mr As copy  may have been applied after the 
order had been made as it doesnt appear on the merchants copy. But that doesnt automatically  
mean the first stamp  was also applied after the deposit had been paid.
In its response to Mr As complaint Lloyds has said it must accept the evidence given  by the 
merchant to be factual. Im not aware of any provision in the card scheme rules to that effect. My 
understanding is that Lloyds could have requested arbitration when the dispute hadnt been  resolved. 
While its possible this might have been done, its difficult to see that it would  have changed the 
outcome. As Ive said above, the dispute is really  about  when  the stamps  were  applied to the order 
form and what was said between Mr A and the merchant. I think it would  have been reasonable for 
Lloyds to decide that was something the chargeback  process wouldnt ever be able to determine. 
Lloyds should have explained this to Mr A. I think the explanation it gave him was both inadequate  
and inaccurate.
Given the above,  Im satisfied the service Lloyds  gave Mr A in relation to his chargeback request fell 
below the standard he was entitled to expect and that this caused him unnecessary trouble and upset. 
Mr A says he managed  to resolve  the situation with the merchant, himself,  so I dont think he suffered 
financial loss as a result  of Lloyds actions. But I dont think the additional sum of £100 Lloyds  has 
offered him is sufficient to compensate him for the trouble and upset  he suffered as a result of its poor 
service. I think  it should  pay him another £250.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties, my provisional decision is I 
uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr A £250.
Ref: DRN6642538