K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1995. 
Mrs J says she took out the PPI when she applied for her card during a meeting at the bank. 
Theres only limited information  now available and she may well be right about that. Lloyds 
couldnt confirm  how or exactly when PPI was sold to Mrs J.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Mrs J mainly said that it wasnt  made  clear to her that the policy  was optional  and she 
doesnt feel she needed it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Mrs J being able to remember everything  as it happened so long ago. So I cant 
know exactly what the bank said to Mrs J, if anything, when she took out PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  an example  of a credit card application. But I dont know  if Mrs J 
wouldve filled in a form like this when  she took out the PPI  because  it isnt clear exactly 
how or when this happened. So Im not relying  on this. 
Based on what we know about  the way Lloyds usually sold PPI around this time, I think its 
likely that however the sale took place, Mrs J wouldve had to say if she wanted PPI  it 
wasnt automatically added onto a credit  card account. And it looks  to me as if Mrs J 
couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim.  So, on balance, I think its more 
likely that Mrs J decided she wanted  to have the benefits PPI offered and Lloyds added  PPI 
to her account at her request,  even if understandably she no longer recalls  that. 
Lloyds said that in fairness to Mrs J it would look at her complaint as if it had advised Mrs J 
personally to have the PPI. This means  it not only had to give her important policy  
information in a clear  way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable  for Mrs J.
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable  for Mrs J based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN61095292Ive taken into account everything Mrs J told us about the sick pay she couldve relied on 
getting from her employer. During the course  of our investigation, shes told us different 
things about this. I can completely understand how difficult it is to try and remember precise  
details from so long ago. But what Mrs J says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold her complaint.  I have to look at all the available  information  and decide  what I think  is 
most likely  making reasonable assumptions  where  necessary.
Mrs J initially told us that she couldve expected to get less than 3 months  sick pay from her 
employer. Looking at her job at the time,  that seems reasonable to me. 
But PPI wouldve covered her for accident or sickness, paying  out for longer than this - up to 
12 months per claim. So I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult 
time. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out in the event  Mrs J lost her job unexpectedly and was 
out of work. Mrs J didnt  initially  mention having  any significant other means she couldve 
depended on if she wasnt able to work.  So I think PPI was suitable for her.  
Mrs J has recently  told us that she wouldve been  able to rely on getting full sick pay for a 
minimum of 12 months, and some sick pay for even longer  than this. Looking at what shes  
told us about her circumstances, I dont  know  how likely  it is that Mrs J wouldve got as much 
sick pay as she now thinks likely. Being entitled to 12 months  full sick pay would be quite 
unusual. We asked  for more information about  this. But Mrs J hasnt been able to send me 
anything further  to show shes correctly remembered the amount of sick pay she couldve 
relied on. So I dont feel I can attach much  weight to this new information.
In any event, PPI wouldve paid out, on top of any sick pay, for up to 12 months per claim. 
This couldve been a useful  benefit at whats likely to have been  a difficult time if Mrs J 
needed to claim as she mightve  had extra costs if she was ill or disabled. So what  Mrs J has 
now told us about  her sick pay doesnt change  my overall view.
And although shes recently  mentioned  also having some savings, I dont feel that I can 
safely rely on this information. I dont  know, for example,  where savings mightve come from 
(Mrs J previously said she had none).  I dont  know if any savings mightve been tied up in a 
long term account  or what Mrs J mightve been  saving for. This information hasnt been 
provided. So I cant assume Mrs J wouldve had ready access to enough money to make 
PPI unsuitable  when she took out her credit  card. So this information doesnt  change my 
decision.  
Looking at the likely policy terms, I think Mrs J was eligible for the cover.  It doesnt look as if 
Mrs J was affected by any of the main policy limitations or exclusions that mightve  made it 
difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
Some of the information Lloyds gave  Mrs J about  the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  For example, I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would  
cost, or what it might  pay out if Mrs J made  a claim. But it seems to have been affordable  for 
her. And Mrs J couldve  cancelled the policy at any time without further  cost if her 
circumstances changed or she no longer wanted to pay for it.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely Mrs J 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy. 
Ref: DRN61095293This means  Mrs J hasnt lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds may have done wrong. 
So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6109529