K821x#15complaint
Mr F and Ms M complain  about how Allianz  Insurance Plc handled their claim following an 
escape of water. 
background
Mr F and Ms M had insurance underwritten by Allianz for a property they rent out. In 
September 2017 they discovered  a leak that had caused extensive  damage to the property. 
They made a claim on the insurance, including claiming for loss of rent incurred while  the 
property was being repaired.
Drying of the property  began and quotes were  requested from four surveyors  for the repair  
works and submitted to Allianz for review. Three  were similar  in price and one was 
significantly lower. Allianz  said it would go with the lowest  quote as this was the most 
competitive. 
In March 2017 Mr F raised concerns that the property  wasnt structurally sound due to the 
extent of the water damage. He instructed an independent surveyor  who produced a report  
highlighting a number  of areas  of concern caused by the leak.  Allianz  also instructed an 
expert report and it disagreed with Mr Fs experts findings. It said that structural  defects 
were to blame for the problems and not the escape of water, so these wouldnt be covered 
under the policy.
After some back  and forth a joint meeting was agreed with Mr Fs expert and Allianzs.  
Although Allianzs  expert still thought most  of the structural  problems werent caused by the 
escape of water. However they agreed to dig a trial pit in order to check  the foundations 
hadnt been affected.
During the claim Allianz advised Mr F that he had reached the policy  limit for loss of rent 
payments, so no further payments would  be made.
At the start of 2018 Allianz offered a final cash settlement based on the scope of works, loss 
of rent and contents claim. Mr F disagreed  with this as it was based on the lower  quote and 
he felt it didnt include all the necessary  repairs.
Mr F and Ms M made a complaint to Allianz as they disagreed with the proposed settlement. 
They raised a number of objections in the complaint. They said that Allianz had caused a 
number of unnecessary  delays  which had meant  the loss of rent limit had been reached. 
They therefore said Allianz should  pay additional  rent to cover this period.
Further, they complained that the lowest quote of the four had been selected. And pointed 
out a number of errors and missing items from this quote. They  also disputed the £9,000  that 
appeared to have been deducted  to cover fees for his independent surveyor that Allianz had 
agreed to pay for. And they said their contents claim had been undervalued. They also said 
council tax should be paid as well as loss of rent, as this would usually be paid by their 
tenants.
In response to Mr F and Ms Ms complaint Allianz  agreed to go with the second cheapest 
quote rather than the cheapest. It also agreed  to all additional repairs  they had identified  that 
had been missed off. As such, it increased the settlement offer by £60,000.  However Allianz 
didnt agree that the delays had been  avoidable  and therefore didnt make  any further 
Ref: DRN67098192payments for loss of rent. However  it accepted  it had provided some poor customer service 
and offered £1,000 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr F and Ms M werent happy with this response as they said they had lost out on additional 
rent because of the poor service. They also felt Allianz hadnt  addressed  all their concerns 
Further, they said the cost of the repair work had now increased by 12% so Allianz should 
also pay this extra cost.  They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld.  She 
said she thought  Allianz had caused  a number of unnecessary delays so should pay five 
months loss of rent payments plus an additional six months for the period  it took for the work 
to be carried out after. She also agreed that Allianz  should pay the fees for Mr F and Ms Ms 
surveyor., including refunding the £9,000 deducted for this.
However our investigator said she hadnt  seen enough evidence  to show  that Mr F and 
Ms M had paid an additional  12% for the repairs, so couldnt recommend  Allianz  pay this. 
She also said council  tax isnt covered under the policy so wouldnt make  up part of the 
settlement. She also agreed with Allianzs  offer of £1,000 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience it caused.
Finally, our investigator said she had encountered  problems receiving information from 
Allianz. As such had not seen evidence that the calculations for additional contents were  
incorrect.
Mr F and Ms M didnt  agree with our investigator. They said they thought  more  
compensation should be paid as well as a contribution towards  additional utility bills. They  
asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr F and Ms M raised a number of different complaint  points throughout this claim. As this is 
an informal service I havent responded to every one. I have only addressed  what I consider 
to be the key issues. However I want to reassure Mr F and Ms M that I have  considered all 
the points raised  when  reaching my decision.  I have addressed them in turn below.
Since the complaint has come to me I have been in touch with Mr F and Allianz as I have 
reached slightly different  outcome to our investigator. Both have provided further comments  
which have been  considered as part of my assessment.  
Loss of rent
Allianz said that under the policy, Mr F and Ms M were  entitled to 18 months  loss of rent 
while the property  is uninhabitable. Allianz  has shown this limit was reached in April 2018.  
And therefore says that Mr F and Ms M arent entitled to any further payments under the 
policy.  
However Mr F has explained that delays caused  by Allianz led to the repair work taking 
longer to complete, therefore meaning he was unable to rent the house for a longer period of 
time.
Ref: DRN67098193The claim was settled  in September  2018. And although the settlement has led to this 
complaint which  has been ongoing for much  longer,  that isnt something I can consider as 
part of the delay. So I need  to consider  whether Allianz caused avoidable delays to the claim 
that meant  Mr F and Ms M would have  been  able to receive rent payments earlier. And 
therefore whether  it should make further  payments above the policy  limit. 
Mr F has explained  in detail the delays that have been experienced as part of this claim. I 
have looked at all the information  both he and Allianz have provided and I agree that some  
of the delays could have  been avoided. 
In claims for extensive damage following an escape of water, the process for settling is a 
lengthy one. The insurer has to deal with a number of different contractors with different 
schedules and who produce complex schedules  of work. So arranging  this does take some 
time and I have taken  this into account. 
However there are some delays that think were caused by Allianz and could have been 
avoided. 
Firstly, I dont think Allianzs  decision  to select the lowest of the four quotes for repairs was a 
fair one. The purpose of going to tender for quotes,  is to get an idea of a reasonable price for 
the work.  In this case, three quotes  came  in at very similar prices.  The fourth was nearly 
£20,000 less. We would  generally  expect  an insurer to select a mid-point when selecting  
from quotes, as this would indicate a reasonable cost. So I dont think  it was fair or 
reasonable for Allianz to select the cheapest. Particularly as the only reason  it gave  for doing 
so was the price. Further, Mr F pointed  out a number of items on the cheapest scope of 
works that had either been wrongly  priced or missed  off completely. 
In response to Mr Fs complaint Allianz agreed  to go with the second  cheapest  quote  
instead. However this was around nine months  after the quotes were originally produced. 
And after Mr F had repeatedly disputed the choice.  This process delayed progress of the 
claim by a number of months  and I think it could have been avoided.
I also think Allianz caused further  delays with the time it took to properly assess  information  
provided by Mr Fs expert. He produced a report in March 2017  which  suggested the escape 
of water had caused  significant structural damage to the property. Allianz didnt  agree.  
However it only sent its own expert to formally assess these assertions in September  that 
year. This meant the issue  wasnt properly resolved until that point. 
Allianz has said that it only sent its expert  to appease Mr F and that the report produced  from 
this visit showed  that Mr Fs expert had been  incorrect. However from looking at the Allianzs 
report, its expert agreed to do further  exploratory  work to check whether the foundations  of 
the house had been affected by the water damage. I therefore  think this shows that there  
was some basis for Mr Fs experts  concerns. Ive not seen a reason why it took Allianz so 
long to get its own expert opinion. And by taking this time, it delayed  the claim further.
For these reasons I think Allianz did cause avoidable delays during the claim. Had it not, 
Mr F and Ms M may not have reached the limit for loss of rent under the policy  at the time it 
did. When looking at the claim overall and considering some  delays are to be expected,  I 
agree with our investigator that Allianz  caused  around eight months months  of avoidable  
delays. I therefore  will require Allianz  to pay an additional eight months  loss of rent to 
Mr F and Ms M.
Ref: DRN67098194I will also require  it to pay 8% simple  interest  on each payment from the date of the loss until 
the date it is paid to make  up for the fact Mr F and Ms M have been without the funds.  
Surveyors fees
Allianz agreed to pay for the fees of an independent surveyor  instructed by Mr F and Ms M 
to help manage the claim. Mr F has said that a deduction has been  made  for the fees as part 
of the settlement, rather than the costs  being added to the settlement. 
I have reviewed the information provided and I can see that Allianz  has confirmed it agreed 
to cover the fees.  I can also see that in the final settlement around £15,000 was paid 
towards the surveyor fees.  However  this is £9,000 less than what  Allianz agreed to pay.
Allianz said it paid the extra £9,000 to Mr F and Ms M directly  as part of a separate payment. 
Mr F has confirmed that this payment was received. However Mr F has pointed  out that this 
amount was later deducted from an earlier settlement. Mr F has also provided an email that 
confirms this. I therefore agree that although  Allianz  initially paid the £9,000, as this was later 
deducted it should re-pay this amount. I therefore require Allianz to pay Mr F and Ms M 
£9,000 towards  their assessors fees.
Price increase
Mr F has said that since the claim was settled,  the fees for the repair work have gone up by 
around 12% largely  due to inflation. Allianz had previously said that it only agreed  to settle at 
the mid-tender  quote as a gesture of goodwill  so it wouldnt be responsible for price 
increases. As I have  laid out above,  I dont think this is reasonable as we would expect an 
insurer to choose  a mid-point tender rather than the lowest,
Mr F has provided  a letter from the contractor  that states prices have increased  by around 
12-15%. I have  said to Allianz  that as I have  seen proof of the price  increase, I think it is 
reasonable that the settlement is increased to cover this amount. 
As Mr F has proved he will no longer be able to get the same  work done for the same price  I 
think its fair that Allianz pay 12% extra to cover  the new cost of the work.  I have looked  at 
the quote that Allianz agreed  to settle on and 12% of this would be around £25,000. I will 
therefore require  Allianz to pay Mr F and Ms M an additional £25,000 to cover the price  
increase of the required work.
Additional costs
Mr F has said that that the amounts settled for contents is too low and there should  be an 
additional amount for repair work.  Allianz  has explained that the reason Mr F and Ms M have 
received less than the value of what they expect, is because the policy  limit was below the 
total value of the contents. So they were  underinsured. Allianz  has shown that it calculated 
the contents settlement by reducing  the amount payable by the percentage Mr F and Ms M 
were underinsured by. In situations  where the value of items exceeds the policy limit, this is 
the approach  this service would take.  Some I am satisfied that Allianz has handled the 
contents claim fairly and wont require  it to pay anything further. 
Ref: DRN67098195Mr F also says his additional utility bills should  be covered by Allianz. This request has not 
been put to Allianz before.  I therefore  suggest  he raises it with Allianz first in order  to allow  it 
the opportunity  to respond.
Council tax
Mr F says that as he has been paying  council tax, which would usually be paid by tenants, 
he should be reimbursed  for this as part of the loss of rent. Our investigator explained that 
this isnt covered  in the policy and I agree. Mr F thinks this isnt fair as it isnt listed as an 
exclusion  rather just not mentioned. But it isnt possible  for insurers  to include everything 
that isnt included in a policy, this is infeasible. Therefore where  something  isnt mentioned, it 
is fair to assume it isnt covered. Further Allianz has confirmed this to be the case. I therefore 
think its fair that Allianz havent reimbursed Mr F for council tax payments.
Compensation
I understand this has been a lengthy  claim.  And, due to disagreements with Allianz, it has 
required quite a lot of time and input from Mr F and Ms M. For the reasons I have outlined 
above, I agree that Allianz caused a number of delays.  And this has made it more time 
consuming and therefore  caused  more distress and inconvenience  for Mr F and Ms M. I 
therefore agree that compensation should  be paid.  However I have also factored in the fact 
that property is a rental property, rather than their own home. Allianz  has offered £1,000  
compensation. This exceeds what I would have  recommended. I therefore  agree with this 
offer and require Allianz to pay £1,000 compensation  if it has not already.
putting things right
For the reasons  Ive outlined, I agree that Allianz should pay an additional eight months loss 
of rent at the previously agreed rate. Further It should pay an additional £9,000 to cover  the 
costs of Mr Fs independent surveyor, as it previously  committed  to doing.  And pay £25,000 
to cover the additional  cost of the work  due to price increases. I will also require Allianz  to 
pay 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date they were incurred to the date the 
claim is settled.  This is to make  up for the fact Mr F and Ms M have been  without  the money.
Finally Allianz should pay the £1,000 compensation offered, if it hasnt done so already.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Allianz  Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mr F and Ms M an additional eight months  loss of rent at the previously agreed rate.
Pay Mr F and Ms M an additional £9,0000 for the cost of their independent  surveyor that 
was deducted  from the original settlement.
Pay Mr F and Ms M £25,000 to cover  the increase in price  of the work covered under the 
policy.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the loss until the date settlement is 
paid on all of the above amounts.*
Pay Mr F and Ms M the £1,000 previously offered, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2020.
Ref: DRN67098196Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
*If Allianz Plc considers  it should deduct  income  tax from any 8% interest  element of my 
award it may do so, but should give Mr F and Ms M the necessary certificate.
Ref: DRN6709819