K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly  lent to him. 
He wants a refund of the interest he paid and references removed from his credit file.
background
This complaint is about 16 payday  loans  Quick Quid provided to Mr B between  May 2012 
and July 2017. In addition  Mr B took out a flex credit  facility in January 2014  which  works in 
a similar  way to a credit card in as much as it is a revolving  credit facility. Mr B borrowed 
continuously from Quick  Quid  and there  were no significant gaps in his borrowing. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint and thought the loans from loan 5 onwards  
shouldnt have been given. Quick Quid disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. So I dont agree with Quick  Quid that a 
detailed analysis of Mr Bs bank statements for each and every  loan is required.  
Ref: DRN63770512Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I think that proportionate checking  was carried out for loans 1-4 given the amounts borrowed 
and Mr Bs declared financial position. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Quick Quids  lending history  with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Quick Quid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
By loan 5 Mr B had been borrowing continuously and in quick succession from Quick  
Quid. Mr B had requested roll overs of loans 2 and 3. Mr Bs borrowing was 
increasing.
When Mr B asked  for loan 5, this was within days  of settling a previous one and was 
for £400. The repayment amount  of £500 was a significant proportion of his declared 
income of £1105.  So Quick Quid ought  to have  realised  it was more likely than not Mr 
B was having to borrow further  to cover  the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Quick Quid. And the 
amounts he tended  to borrow didnt decrease substantially.  Although  there were 
some gaps  they were  not significant  and it was because of his borrowing from other  
short term lenders  not because  he was repaying his debt. Mr B was topping  up loans 
and incurring late fees which all should have indicated that the loans were not 
sustainable.
I think that Mr B lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals were  likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Bs ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for these  
high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN63770513So Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint about  loans 5 to 17 (which includes the flex credit facility)   
and Quick Quid should put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 5 to 17;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
take off any negative information  recorded  regarding loans 5 and 6 on Mr Bs credit 
file.
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 7 to 17 should be removed from   
Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Mr B has an outstanding balance on his final loan to Quick Quid  and is currently in a 
repayment plan.  This debt may have been  sold to a third party debt collection company as 
Mr B has been unable to make repayments. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr B shouldnt repay the principal  he borrowed 
from the lender.  So it seems reasonable that if Mr B still owes  some of the capital he 
borrowed that the refund due to him should  be used  to reduce that debt. But to do so 
CashEuroNet must  first take the debt back  into its own books if it has sold it on and reduce it 
to reflect  just the capital that Mr B borrowed.  If CashEuroNet is unable,  or unwilling, to do 
this it must ensure that its interest and charges, and any other interest and charges added 
by the debt collection company, are refunded to Mr B so he can choose whether to use the 
compensation to settle his debt directly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) should pay Mr B compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6377051