K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy because Unum  Ltd has declined a claim she made  on her employers 
group income protection policy. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of my final decision.  
Mrs C wants Unum to pay 60% of her salary for the period covering December 2015 to June 
2016 and 50% of her salary from June 2016 to the present date. 
In my provisional decision I explained  I wasnt  intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. In 
summary, I said if the policyholder had reported the claim to Unum  at an earlier stage I 
thought it was likely theyd have taken the opportunity to investigate  her symptoms  and how 
they impacted  on her ability  to do her job. I explained I didnt think it was unreasonable to 
conclude Unum has been prejudiced as it would now be difficult  to establish,  after the event, 
whether Mrs C would  have been unable  to perform the material  and substantial duties of her 
job. So I didnt think it was unreasonable for Unum to reject  the claim. 
I also explained I didnt  think  Unum was responsible for an issue in relation to the return  of 
Mrs Cs medical  documents via the postal service  as Unum had instructed the documents  
should be returned via recorded  delivery.  I asked Mrs C and Unum to let me know if they 
had anything further to add. 
Unum responded  to say they agreed with my provisional decision.  Mrs C responded and 
provided further information and comments. In summary, she said:
Her employer submitted the employers form in December 2015
She submitted  the claim form once shed received the correct paperwork from her 
employer and the delay was caused by a change in her employers insurance 
provider
Her employer isnt using Unum  anymore and consequently theyve rejected her claim
Unum accepted the late submission didnt affect  their assessment of the claim and 
took the case knowing theyd not had the opportunity to examine her
Mrs C offered to attend  a meeting  with Unum as part of the appeals  process for her 
claim but she was told this wasnt necessary
Unum didnt take opportunities to gather insight from Mrs Cs treating consultant or 
GP. And she doesnt  agree  with Unums interpretation of the medical evidence
The end of the deferred period wasnt the end of her illness. The time when she was 
ill was horrendous  and she could barely function,  never  mind work  in any capacity.  
I asked Mrs C for further information.  In response  and her employer clarified:
Ref: DRN64060182During a phased return to work Mrs C was paid normal salary for the hours worked. 
The shortfall in hours  which werent  worked  were  coded  as rehabilitation on the HR 
records
An employee may receive  Company  Sick Pay, if eligible, at the applicable  rate in line 
with the Company Sick Pay Policy. Mrs C was entitled to 100% of her salary for up to 
8 weeks, 75% of her salary between 8 and 26 weeks  and Statutory Sick Pay after 26 
weeks (if she was eligible)
Mrs C is still completing a phased return to work and isnt completing her contractual 
hours
Mrs C says she has received zero pay for long periods of time because she fell 
outside the company sick pay policy due to being completely  absent from work due 
to sickness or working reduced hours. 
Having reviewed the evidence I asked whether the business was prepared  to consider a 
further claim based on a deferred period running  from six months from the point Mrs C 
received her diagnosis of presumed giant cell arteritis and fibromyalgia. However, they 
declined to do so as by that point in time the group scheme policy had ended.  Mrs C 
provided her final comments following Unums refusal to consider the claim from that point.  
So I now need to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I outlined  in my provisional decision Unum has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly.  And they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Mrs C has made detailed  representations in response to my provisional decision.  Whilst I 
have considered all of the points shes raised Ill only refer to the points which  I think are 
relevant to my decision. 
the relevant policy  terms
Mrs C has made a number of points in relation  to the late submission of the claim and 
Unums interpretation  of the medical evidence. The full policy term in relation to the 
notification required for a claim says:
The policyholder is required to notify  Unum  in writing in the absence  of a member 
due to illness or injury,  immediately where the member has been absent from work 
for 14 weeks or for half the deferred period, which is shorter.  
No benefit shall be payable for, or in respect  of, any period  of time before such 
written notice of the absence and Unums claim form documentation, fully completed 
by the policyholder, is received by Unum. 
If neither written notice  of the members  absence nor Unums  fully completed claim 
form documentation is received within 90 days from the end of the deferred period, 
Ref: DRN64060183Unum shall have no liability whatsoever to pay benefit in respect  of the member.  If 
fully completed claim form documentation is received by Unum  after 90 days from the 
end of the deferred period, Unum  shall in its sole discretion whether to consider the 
claim received, but Unum  shall be under no obligation to do so, nor pay any benefit.
The policy terms also say its for the policyholder and Mrs C to provide sufficient evidence  to 
satisfy Unum theres a valid claim. The term goes on to say:
Failure to provide or unreasonable  delay in providing such evidence, information, or 
access to information  will entitle Unum  to decline and/or cease payment of benefit in 
respect of any claim. 
Unum is not obliged to provide evidence that a member is not incapacitated to 
decline or cease  payment  of benefit in respect of a claim. 
So its for Mrs C to demonstrate that she meets the definition of incapacity. The policy says:
the member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member is: 
(a)Unable, by reason  of their illness or injury, to perform the material  and substantial  
duties of the insured occupation, and is
(b)Not performing any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 5.3 
(Proportionate benefit).
is it reasonable to conclude  the first date of absence was in June 2015?
Unum has concluded  the first date of absence was in June  2015.  This was the first time her 
absence was certified by her GP and her medical  notes indicate it was due to abdominal 
pain, aches and tiredness.  
I also note Mrs C reduced the number of days she was in the office  at around that time. She 
also reduced the number of hours  she worked  each day when she attempted  to return  to 
work. During  that period  of time she also began  to work shorter days which were recorded 
as rehab on her HR records. And she still isnt completing her full contractual  hours  as she 
is still completing a phased return. 
So, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think its unreasonable  for Unum to use June 
2015 as the beginning  of the deferred  period  in this case. This means Unum should  have 
been notified of the potential claim in September 2015 and the deferred period ended in 
December 2015.  
did the policyholder notify  Unum of the absence within the time limit specified in the policy?
The policyholder, Mrs Cs employer, should have contacted  their broker in September 2015 
to notify them of Mrs Cs absence but this didnt happen until November 2015.  
The policyholder used the August date because that was the first time Mrs C was signed off 
continuously by her GP. But, for the reasons Ive already explained,  I dont think  its 
unreasonable for Unum to conclude the absence started in June 2015 and calculate the 
notification date and deferred period based on this. 
Ref: DRN64060184As the broker wasnt notified of the absence  until November 2015 Im satisfied Unum were  
notified of Mrs Cs absence later than they should have been. 
has Unum unreasonably rejected the claim?
Mrs C has pointed out that both the claim forms were still submitted within 90 days  of the 
correct deferred  period.  Shes also explained  her illness didnt end when the deferred period 
came to an end and she is still living with her conditions.
However, for the reasons  Ill go on to explain I think the late notification of absence is 
significant in the circumstances of Mrs Cs case.   
(a)Symptoms related  to colitis 
Ive taken into account all of the medical evidence provided and Mrs Cs comments  about 
the impact of her medical conditions on her life outside of work. But, as I outlined in my 
provisional decision, the medical information  thats available  doesnt  give a detailed insight 
into her ability and capacity to work as that wasnt the primary focus of the medical 
practitioners involved in her care. They were focused on investigation, diagnosis and 
treatment. And the occupational health  reports relied on Mrs Cs reporting of her condition. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Unum to conclude  its not possible for them to 
retrospectively assess the medical evidence in this case. In May 2015 the medical  records  
say Mrs C was keeping  a diary to record her bowel movements. In early May the GP noted  
this was happening three times per day (but it could  be more on a bad day).  At an 
appointment later that month it was noted  it was happening two to three  days and it was the 
nature of the bowel  movements, rather than their frequency which was causing the issue. 
When she was first absent from work her GP records indicated she was experiencing 
abdominal pain, aches and she was feeling  tired. She was referred to a consultant a few 
weeks later because she had reported experiencing diarrhoea for a period of around  six 
weeks. In July 2015 Mrs C reported  this had become worse. The symptoms were attributed  
to a condition  shed been diagnosed with in 2013.  In August 2015, the point at which she 
was signed off work continuously by the GP, her bowel movements were  recorded by the 
GP as being  two to three times per day. 
In September  it was noted that Mrs C had responded  well to medication and the diarrhoea 
had resolved so Mrs C was having  one or two bowel movements each day. A recent  CT 
scan of the abdomen and pelvis was also noted to be normal. This was shortly before 
September 2015, when the notification period  came  to an end. 
In October  2015 Mrs C reported to her GP she was experiencing constipation and her 
medical notes focused primarily on the joint pain she was experiencing. The following month 
the GP notes say her bowel symptoms hadnt changed and Mrs C was still experiencing 
some pain, usually  in the evenings. 
A further  report from the consultant in December 2015, just before the deferred  period 
ended, says steroids have helped the aching and improved her bowel symptoms. However, 
they had given her indigestion.
Ref: DRN64060185Mrs C says that between  December 2015  and April 2016 she had a further flare up of her 
long term condition causing further  similar  symptoms of diarrhoea. There  is some evidence,  
from June 2016,  which indicates Mrs C reported experiencing such symptoms  during 
December 2015  to April 2016. But thats not reflected in her GPs ongoing medical  notes. 
Rather, the focus  was primarily on the pain and fatigue she reported  she was experiencing. 
And I note the GP had previously recorded  information about Mrs Cs bowel movements  in 
the manner which Ive set out above. So I dont think its unreasonable  for Unum  to conclude  
this issue was resolved  by the end of the deferred  period. 
In any event, its very difficult to build  a picture of how this specifically affected Mrs Cs ability  
to do her job. The limited information from June 2016 says Mrs C may need additional 
support such as sufficient  time to attend  appointments,  stress reduction and adequate toilet  
facilities. But this doesnt provide a detailed insight into her ability to do her role during the 
deferred period.  As Ive outlined above,  its for Mrs C to demonstrate  she was incapacitated 
rather than for Unum to show she wasnt. 
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont think its unreasonable  for Unum to decline the 
claim on the basis Mrs C hadnt met the definition of incapacity outlined in the policy.  
(b)Symptoms relating  to joint pain, headaches, confusion and fatigue
Mrs C reported some general aches, pains  and tiredness when she first became absent  and 
over the months  that followed.
An examination in October 2015  by Mrs Cs GP noted she continued to experience  ongoing 
symptoms of muscle and joint aches. However, no scalp or body tenderness was noted 
during examination. A recent pelvic ultrasound was also found to be normal. 
In November, about shortly after the notification period passed, the GP asked for guidance 
from the consultant  in relation to Mrs Cs joint pain,  which was noted to have been 
particularly bad since October. The GP noted the headaches had settled. 
In November 2015 Mrs C reported experiencing blurred vision when she attended an urgent 
care centre due to jaw pain. The CT scan was normal. During an examination in 
January 2016  Mrs C reported that headaches and widespread joint pain had continued. But 
no Fibromyalgia trigger points were  identified. A few weeks  later there were multiple trigger 
points identified by the consultant which led to a diagnosis of fibromyalgia and presumed 
giant cell arteritis (although it wasnt possible to do a diagnostic biopsy). 
Later MRI scans of the head  and spine  were normal. When Mrs C was seen  in the neurology  
clinic it was noted that everything  pointed to the pain in her left arm being a trapped  nerve  
there was no referral for physiotherapy or surgery as Mrs Cs results were within the normal 
ranges.  
Its important to note that the referral for this condition took place shortly after the broker  
should have been notified of the absence  by the policyholder. So this was an important time 
in the context of Mrs Cs medical  history as there was a shift from the medical practitioners 
considering the symptoms  of joint pain, headaches and fatigue to be linked to her 
pre-existing health problem of colitis. 
Ref: DRN64060186This means  that it was around the time the policyholder  shouldve  notified Unum  of Mrs Cs 
absence that her GP began to consider whether these symptoms  were linked to a separate 
condition in their own right.
Unum told the broker in December 2015  they considered the first date of absence to be in 
June 2015. Mrs Cs claim form wasnt  submitted until the end of January 2016. I appreciate 
this was due to an issue about  getting  the right forms sorted  out. But by the time Mrs C 
submitted her claim form she had already received a diagnosis  of both fibromyalgia and 
presumptive giant  cell arteritis.
In any event, the medical information doesnt  offer detailed insight into Mrs Cs ability  to do 
her job or her functional  capacity to work. So, taking all of the above information into account 
Im satisfied its reasonable  for Unum  to take the approach that its difficult to understand, 
retrospectively, whether  these symptoms were of such a severity  that they fulfilled the 
definition of incapacity set out in the policy. 
has Unum changed  their position about  the late submission  of the claim?
Ive looked at the letter Unum sent to Mrs C in May 2016 which says the late submission 
hasnt affected  their assessment of the claim.  However, the letter did make  it clear that 
Unum considered Mrs C to have first become absent from work in June  2015  and the claim 
was being declined. 
The body of the letter went on to explain that Unum had been  unable to gain a clear 
understanding of Mrs Cs reported symptoms  due to inconsistent  evidence. The letter  also 
explained Unum  didnt dispute  Mrs C had experienced symptoms but the evidence didnt 
support that they were of such a severity which would have necessitated such  a prolonged 
absence from the workplace.  So, whilst the letter says the late submission of the claim hasnt 
affected their assessment, I think this related to whether Unum would consider the claim at 
all, rather than whether  they could retrospectively assess the medical evidence. 
A further  letter was issued  in January 2017  once the claim had been reconsidered. This 
letter confirmed Unum  had been unable to use the medical evidence to retrospectively  
assess the deferred period. Unum went on to say the late submission of the claim had 
prejudiced their ability to assess  the claim and that they were  maintaining  their decision to 
decline liability. So I think  Unum did make it sufficiently clear throughout the claims process  
that their position was the evidence submitted wasnt  sufficient to prove  Mrs Cs claim.      
Mrs C offered to attend the appeal and she says she was told it wasnt  necessary. Shes 
provided some information from her employer who recalls this being  the case. But this 
doesnt change  my thoughts on the outcome of this complaint. Unum  arent  suggesting 
Mrs C hasnt co-operated with their claims process.  Their position is that the medical 
evidence isnt sufficient  to prove her claim and this has meant its not possible to fairly 
assess her ability to do her job retrospectively.  For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my 
provisional decision, I dont think thats  unreasonable.   
Unum havent asked Mrs C to attend  an assessment  since  the claim was submitted. But 
thats because  theyre  declining  liability for the claim.  So I wouldnt  have  expected Unum to 
arrange an assessment  when  thats  the approach  they were taking.  
Ref: DRN64060187has Unum declined the claim because the policyholder has changed provider?
The policyholder isnt using Unum as their group scheme insurer  anymore. But Ive not seen 
any evidence to suggest their decision to decline Mrs Cs claim was simply because  her 
claim came at a time when the scheme  was changing over.  
Its unfortunate for Mrs C because this means Unum arent  in a position to consider the claim 
from the later start date. But I think it would be unfair  to direct Unum to pay a claim  to a 
policyholder after the policy had ended, especially when I think  theyve reasonably declined 
the claim made when  the policy was in place.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN64060188COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs C is unhappy because Unum Ltd has declined  a claim she made on her employers group income  
protection policy. 
background
Mrs C was off work from June  2015 because she was experiencing a number of symptoms, including 
tiredness, pain and diarrhoea. She had been diagnosed  with colitis a few years before. In January 
2016 she was diagnosed with fibromyalgia. Mrs C also has a possible diagnosis  of giant  cell arteritis. 
Mrs C is now working part time. Mrs C is unhappy because Unum  have declined her claim and 
because she says her medical  records were  returned to her via the ordinary post rather  than by 
recorded delivery.
The group income protection policy has a deferred  period of 26 weeks.  Mrs C made  a claim in 
January 2016. Mrs C didnt make a claim  until around six months after shed been off work. In her 
claim form Mrs C described her symptoms as including visual disturbances,  fatigue, joint plan, fever  
symptoms, brain  fog and diarrhoea.  In her claim  form she said that her conditions affected her ability 
to work  in a number  of ways. She said she was too confused,  tired and in pain to concentrate and had 
difficulties in multi-tasking. She described  having limited  dexterity in her arms  and hands and that she 
found it difficult at times to communicate effectively. Mrs C also explained  she had constant diarrhoea 
when her colitis flared up. The claim was assessed and declined. Mrs C appealed the decision and 
gave Unum more  information.  Unum  reviewed the further information but wont agree  to pay the 
claim. 
In their final response letter Unum said that Mrs C had long standing  medical conditions and she had 
experienced a flare  up of symptoms which had been resolved by December 2015.  Unum  said there 
wasnt evidence to suggest  Mrs C had experienced a significant impairment of function  during the 
relevant period of time and there was no evidence  that Mrs C had experienced any cognitive  
impairment. They said their records indicated  that Mrs Cs medical  records had been sent back by 
recorded delivery.
When Mrs C completed  her complaint form she said she wanted Unum to put things right by paying 
60% of her salary for the period covering  December  2015 to June 2016 and 50% of her salary from 
June 2016 to the present date. So, in summary, Mrs C wants  Unum to pay the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Cs complaint. He said that he 
thought Mrs C had provided enough information to substantiate her claim and he didnt think  that 
Unum had been prejudiced  by the fact that Mrs C hadnt reported the claim  until January 2016. He 
also thought there had been  some delays in handling the claim. So he directed  that Unum should pay 
the claim (with 8% simple interest added) and pay Mrs C £150 compensation. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64060189the relevant policy terms 
The policy will pay a benefit  if a member becomes  incapacitated. The policy terms say:
the member is incapacitated if Unum  is satisfied  that the member is: 
(c)Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material  and substantial  duties  of 
the insured occupation,  and is
(d)Not performing any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 5.3 (Proportionate 
benefit).
The policy terms also explain: 
the policyholder is required to notify Unum in writing of the absence of a member, due to illness or 
injury, immediately  where the member has been  absent from work for 14 weeks or for half the 
deferred period, whichever  is shorter.
has Unum  treated Mrs C fairly?
I can see that Mrs C has had a very difficult time over the last few years and has undergone a number 
of medical investigations in relation to various  symptoms she was experiencing. I dont  doubt that this 
has been an upsetting and challenging time for her. Its also meant shes had to share highly personal  
information with Unum  and her employer during the claims process, which  must  have been very 
difficult. 
Under the relevant rules and industry guidance Unum has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim  unreasonably.  
I think  Unum has handled  Mrs Cs claim  fairly and I dont think theyve rejected  it unreasonably. I say 
that because: 
Mrs C didnt make a claim until January 2016, around six months after she was first signed off 
work by the Doctor.  It was after her diagnosis  for fibromyalgia  and around a month after the 
26 week  deferred period  ended.  I think its likely  that if the claim  had been reported earlier 
then Unum would have  taken the opportunity to investigate  Mrs Cs symptoms in more  detail, 
and in particular how they impacted on her ability to do her job; 
Unum has taken  into account Mrs Cs medical  records which  contain lots of information about 
the investigation  and treatment of her symptoms. But theres not a lot of information  about  
how the symptoms Mrs C experienced specifically impacted on her ability  to do the key 
aspects of her job during the relevant period  of time. For example, theres  very limited 
information about  the symptoms of confusion, poor concentration, difficulties  in multi-tasking 
and communicating effectively. So I dont think its unreasonable to conclude Unum  has been 
prejudiced as it would now be difficult to establish,  after the event, whether  Mrs C would have 
been unable to perform  the material  and substantial duties of her job;
Mrs C has explained she feels Unum has been  selective  about the information  relied on when  
assessing the claim. But Im satisfied that there has been  a full review of all the medical 
evidence, which includes letters and reports from the consultants involved in her care, the 
occupational health reports and the GP records.  Unum  did take into account the occupational 
health reports. But I dont think  its unreasonable  that they put less weight on those  reports 
because they didnt include physical examinations  of Mrs C and were primarily based on 
Mrs Cs reporting of her symptoms; 
Ref: DRN640601810Mrs C is back at work, and her conditions continue to be managed. But its now difficult  to 
understand, retrospectively, whether she could perform the material duties of her job during 
the period of time she was away from work. Unum also pointed  out that there are some 
important differences in the medical  evidence  from the various practitioners and that its 
unclear how consistent  Mrs Cs symptoms were. For example, a consultants report in 
January 2016 said Mrs C had multiple  fibromyalgia trigger points.  But a report from a 
physiotherapy specialist, from around the same time, didnt identify any trigger point 
tenderness consistent with fibromyalgia. And the symptoms of diarrhoea, caused  by the 
colitis, seem to have come  and gone as the condition flared up and settled  down. Unum 
would have  taken the opportunity to explore this in more detail with Mrs Cs treating team, or 
instruct an independent  medical expert, if theyd been aware  of the claim at an earlier point.  
And I dont think its unreasonable to conclude Unum has been  prejudiced by being  deprived 
of this opportunity;  
Im not persuaded  that Unum did fail to return Mrs Cs medical records by recorded delivery. 
Im satisfied theyve made  reasonable  enquiries into this and that Unum instructed for the 
documents to be returned by recorded delivery.  If they werent returned by recorded delivery, 
it seems most likely that it was an error  by the postal service, rather than Unum. Whilst Im 
sorry to hear how upset  Mrs C was I dont think this was an error on Unums part. So Im not 
upholding this aspect  of the complaint. 
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  Mrs C and Unum  have until 4 February  2019 to let me 
know whether  theres any further  information  theyd  like me to take into account  which might affect the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6406018