K822xcomplaint
Mrs J complains about the way Barclays Bank plc treated her when she was targeted by a 
fraudster.
background 
At the end of July 2018 Mrs J received a telephone call from someone pretending to be from 
Barclays. Mrs J says he appeared to have  a lot of information about her and her finances.  
However, she and her husband became  suspicious when the caller said that a £3,000 loan 
application had been made in her name and that she should transfer the loan money to a 
different account  to sort things  out. She ended the call and contacted Barclays on a different 
number.
Barclays questioned  Mrs J about  what had happened.  In fact, a loan had been  applied for  
fraudulently  and the money  paid into Mrs Js account. Mrs Js debit card and telephone 
banking were suspended when, the bank says, she was unable to pass telephone security; 
she had to visit a branch  with identification  to get them reinstated.  Mrs J says that her 
replacement card wasnt ready for her when she went to collect  it from the branch, and so 
she had to attend a second  time.  Within  a few days Barclays had arranged for the loan to be 
removed from Mrs Js account and for her credit file to be corrected. 
Mrs J complained about the way shed been treated. Barclays  recognised that the situation  
had been stressful  for Mrs J and offered her £200. Mrs J didnt think this went  far enough, 
however. She also felt that the bank must be responsible for the fact that the fraudster had 
so much information about her. She referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but agreed that £200 was a fair offer in the 
circumstances. He didnt  think  Barclays needed to do more. Mrs J said however that she 
thought an award  of £1,000 would be more  appropriate and asked that an ombudsman  
review the matter.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the investigator, however,  
that £200 is a fair settlement in the circumstances. 
First, I can understand that this episode has been  very stressful  and worrying  for Mrs J. But, 
as the investigator  identified, the source of that stress  was primarily the attempted  fraud 
itself, not the actions  of Barclays when that fraud  came to light.  
I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mrs J to have to attend  the branch to prove  her 
identity. That was, however, necessary after Barclays froze the account  to protect it from 
further attempts  at fraud. I dont think that was unreasonable.  
I think it was necessary too for Barclays to ask Mrs J questions about the attempted  fraud.  It 
needed to establish what had happened and to satisfy itself that Mrs J wasnt involved. I can 
understand that some questions might have  seemed insensitive, but again I dont think it 
was unreasonable of the bank to want to understand what had happened  and, as far as 
possible, how.  
Ref: DRN67644862I do accept however that the delay in replacing  Mrs Js card didnt help matters,  but I share 
the investigators view that the £200 Barclays paid is sufficient compensation for that.
Mrs J says that the fraudster had a lot of information  about her and her accounts.  Ive 
considered carefully  whether that means there was a security  breach on the banks part, but 
Im not persuaded there was. Fraudsters  obtain  information from many different sources, 
and sometimes customers can be persuaded to give away  information  without  even knowing 
theyre doing so. Whilst I cant rule out the possibility,  I dont  believe I can safely conclude  
that Barclays was responsible for any security breach  here. 
With the exception  of the replacement of Mrs Js card, I believe that Barclays  acted quickly  
and correctly, both to investigate the attempted fraud and to address Mrs Js complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not require  Barclays  Bank  UK plc to do anything more  to resolve 
Mrs Js complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mrs J to accept  or reject  my decision before  13 September  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6764486