K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Legal & General Insurance  Limited  (L&G)  caused undue delay
when dealing with a claim he made  under  his Home Insurance policy.
background
Mr B made a claim for an escape of water in his property in December 2017.  He complained
to L&G that it took until July 2018  to complete the repair works. Mr B said they were  without
day to day furniture for three months.
L&G upheld Mr Bs complaint. The water  damage revealed asbestos which had to be
removed. It accepted that appointments hadnt  been  met and communication  between  it and
its contractors had been poor at times.  L&G apologised and paid Mr B £500  compensation.
Mr B remained unhappy  and asked us to look at his complaint.  Our investigator initially
thought L&G had acted reasonably. Mr B didnt  agree. He provided new information  about
personal circumstances to explain why he believed L&G should  pay more  compensation.
Our investigator thought L&G should increase the compensation it paid by £250 in light of
the new information.
L&G didnt agree. It said it discussed  Mr Bs complaint with him before it paid £500
compensation. And it said Mr B didnt disclose the information he gave us to them  and didnt
think it is fair to now uphold a complaint against  them on the basis of information  it wasnt
aware of.
Mr B would like a further £500 compensation. He said he didnt tell L&G about  the new
information as it was sensitive.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 March 2020. I thought L&G had acted reasonably. So I 
didnt recommend any increase in compensation for Mr B.
Mr B said he was disappointed with my provisional decision. L&G replied but we were 
unable to see what it said. Our investigator  asked L&G to confirm,  but it hasnt  replied.
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand Mr B is disappointed with the 
level of compensation  L&G paid. He said its difficult to show  the impact  of the inconvenience 
through his eyes.
Theres no dispute that L&G caused delays  when dealing with Mr Bs claim. In this case, the
claim took longer  than usual to deal with because items of furniture needed to be removed -
as well as asbestos  - before the water  damage  could be dealt with.
Ref: DRN62781412I think if L&G had acted  promptly,  Mr Bs claim would have been completed in around three
to four months. So I think L&G was responsible for around two months delay, I think  the
£500 compensation L&G paid is reasonable and in line with similar awards  which we have
seen.
I understand that the information  Mr B provided  to us is sensitive and I sympathise with him
for this. He said this is why he didnt disclose it to L&G.  However, it was information  he was
aware of when he brought his complaint to L&G, but didnt share with them. So I think its
unfair to ask L&G to pay more compensation because  of new information  it wasnt  aware of.
I think L&G made mistakes.  But I think its done  enough to put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I think  L&G has done  enough  to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint by paying  him £500  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6278141