K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the charges PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) asked her to pay to 
refurbish her car at the end of a finance  agreement.
background
Miss M took receipt of a new car in March 2016.  She financed  the deal through a two year 
hire agreement with PSA.  At the end of the finance agreement the car was returned and 
inspected in her absence.  But Miss M was disappointed with the bill PSA presented her with 
for £707. They said this was to repair damage  that had been noted  during  the inspection  and 
that was beyond normal wear and tear.
Miss M complained to PSA. She said the car had been checked  before it was returned and it 
was fine and she thought that the damage  mustve occurred after shed returned  it and it was 
awaiting inspection. PSA reviewed the damage and offered to reduce charges to £424.20  if 
Miss M paid within seven days.  The damage  they said was beyond reasonable wear  and 
tear was:
scuffing to three alloy wheels
a misaligned bumper and bonnet
a dent in the front door
a scuffed rear bumper
a scratched quarter  panel
a scratched C- Post
But Miss M was disappointed with PSAs  response so she referred her complaint to this 
service and our adjudicator provided  her opinion. She explained that the terms and 
conditions of the finance agreement set out Miss Ms responsibility to return  the car in a 
good condition  and to pay for any repairs required to return it to that condition. She said the 
industry guidelines that shed expect a company to use, to ascertain whether damage was 
beyond fair wear and tear, were  provided by the British Vehicle  Rental and Leasing  
Association (BVRLA) and she reviewed the photographs of the damage from the inspection 
report against this standard.  She agreed  that all of the damage  was beyond what  would be 
considered fair wear  and tear and that it was therefore chargeable.
She understood that Miss M didnt agree that the damage had occurred  whilst  she was in 
possession of the vehicle but as Miss M hadnt  provided evidence to show  the condition of 
the vehicle before it was left with the business she didnt think  it would be fair to say that was 
the case. She thought  it was most  likely that the type of damage noted  in the inspection 
report had happened  when Miss M had the car. And she thought Miss M had ample 
opportunity to have  the car fixed before it was returned. She understood that Miss M hadnt 
been present  when  the inspection was completed but she noted PSA had been prepared  to 
reduce the damage charges by £282.80  and she thought this was adequate compensation 
for any inconvenience caused  by this. Overall, she thought  the revised figure PSA were  now 
charging of £424.20 was fair and she didnt  think they needed to take any further action.
Ref: DRN68392552But Miss M disagreed and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss M but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar 
reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired  her car under a hire agreement.  The hire agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
The terms of that hire agreement explain that the car should be kept in a good  condition and 
also explain  that Miss M will be responsible  for the costs of repairs  if it isnt.
The industry guidelines that Id expect PSA to use to establish what  was a fair condition and 
what damage was beyond fair wear and tear are provided by the BVRLA.
The vehicle inspection appears to have been  carried out to that standard and by an 
independent third party. There was no requirement for Miss M to be present during the 
inspection although  it would of course be preferable. These inspections are often  completed  
in the consumers absence.
Photographs have been supplied of all of the damage that was identified and rulers and 
viewing aids have been added so that the extent  of the damage can be clearly assessed.
Ive reviewed each  of the chargeable items  and think PSA have fairly applied  refurbishment 
charges. The relevant  guidance from the BVRLA is as follows:
dents (up to 10mm) are acceptable provided there are no more than two (2) per 
panel and the paint  surface is not broken.
scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, relative to the vehicles age 
and mileage, and provided the primer or bare metal is not showing.
any damage to the wheel spokes and the hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
Theres no specific commentary  in the guidance about misalignment of panels but its clear 
from the photographs that both the bumper and the bonnet are misaligned and I dont think  a 
reasonable assessment of a cars condition would think this acceptable. I think  a charge to 
realign is therefore  fair and having  reviewed the specific  charges made  for these  issues and 
for the other  areas of refurbishment, I think the charges  themselves  are also fair and in line 
with others  Ive seen  levied by similar companies  in similar circumstances.
Ref: DRN68392553Miss M suggests the damage happened after she dropped the vehicle  off: at some stage 
between the 12 and 20 March 2018.
But I dont think thats most likely to have been  the case. I say that because:
Miss M hasnt provided any evidence  to show the condition  of the vehicle prior to 
handback. So I cant substantiate her claims.
the period  between  handback and inspection is a relatively  small period in 
comparison to the two years Miss M had the car. Its therefore  more likely that the 
damage happened when Miss M was in possession of it.
the damage is not confined to one panel.  Its damage across several panels. If 
damage was incurred post handback Id have thought it more likely to affect just one 
panel but as this damage affects  many panels  there would need to have  been  many 
accidents after the car was left for inspection. And I think  that diminishes the 
likelihood the damage occurred when  not in Miss Ms control
Ive seen that Miss M was also initially concerned that the business insisted on a gearbox 
leak being fixed when  she told them  about it, and before the car was inspected. The BVRLA 
say that the car must be returned in a roadworthy condition and I think  it was fair for the 
business to insist on this before collecting it.
So Im persuaded  that the condition  the car needed to be returned in was clear; the 
inspection highlighted  damage that was beyond normal wear and tear and was clearly 
chargeable and that the damage most likely  occurred when the car was in Miss Ms care. 
I see that PSA have  been fair in offering a good will gesture to reduce the charges and I 
believe that reduction and their final offer of £424.20  is reasonable especially considering 
that there  were some problems experienced with collection  and delivery to a dealership  that 
Ive noted in the course of my review. I therefore dont think  PSA need take any further  
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6839255