K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Mr S are unhappy about  the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) that was applied to 
their Barclays Bank UK PLC mortgage  account  and the customer  service they received in 
regards to this.
background
Mr M and Mr S had a mortgage  product with Barclays which  was subject  to an ERC. They 
were told by Barclays that they were able to make  a lump sum repayment to their mortgage 
account in the last month of the fixed rate period without  incurring  an ERC, as long as they 
had applied  for a new mortgage  product with the bank. However,  Barclays  failed to inform  
Mr M and Mr S that once  the payment had been  made, the system would automatically 
apply the ERC. The consumers  were  required to contact Barclays  and request a refund.
When Mr M did call to dispute the ERC he says he was told there hadnt been  a charge and 
then there  wasnt an error making  the charge  before the bank accepted the ERC  should be 
refunded.
Barclays upheld Mr M and Mr Ss complaint in its final response letter. It agreed that the 
consumers shouldve been told that they needed  to call Barclays and arrange  a refund of the 
ERC. Barclays also agreed that the level of customer service  provided fell below reasonable 
standards. To compensate Mr M and Mr S it offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld  as she thought fair compensation for 
the errors  would be £150. She explained that she felt that the consumer having to make a 
number of calls and having promises broken wouldve been  a frustrating situation for him.
Barclays disagreed.  It thought that the adjudicator  increased the award  based  on incorrect 
assumptions. She had referred  to the consumer  contacting Barclays on 18 September  and 
the ERC  was refunded on the 20 September. Barclays  said this is incorrect;  the customers  
complaint was logged on the 19 November and the ERC refunded a day later on the 
20 November. 
The adjudicator issued a second  view accepting the error but explaining that this didnt alter 
her view of what  would be fair compensation in the case. She reminded  Barclays that it had 
failed to inform  the consumers  of the process of having the ERC  waived. Furthermore,  Mr M 
and Mr S were caused distress and inconvenience when they had to contact the bank to 
have the matter resolved. Mr M initially raised his concerns on the 18 November 2018 and 
was promised a call back. However,  he did not receive this and contacted the bank again  on 
the 19 November  2018. He was told that there was no record  of his complaint and at this 
point the complaint was logged. The ERC was refunded on 20 November 2019.
Barclays responded to say that it still felt the adjudicators view was based on incorrect 
dates. Mr M and Mr S were put in the position  they would have been in within  a couple of 
days from when they notified the bank. It went on to say that all the points mentioned by the 
adjudicator were addressed in its final response  letter and having considered all those points 
it had increased the compensation to £100.  As nothing has been added since  then, it cant 
see any rationale behind  the increase in the compensation.
Ref: DRN62778232Mr M also responded to say that he was told that he was wrong when he initially  rang to 
complain about  the fee being charged. When he called back Barclays  tried to evade 
correcting the fee and he feels  Barclays may be profiting from the error.
When I initially looked at this complaint I could understand why Barclays  had felt that the 
adjudicator might have  made incorrect assumptions  based on incorrect  dates.  I didnt think 
the incorrect dates  had effected  her decision to award further  compensation but I thought it 
would be useful if she explained to Barclays the precise reason why she recommended the 
increase. She said had the consumer not been this frustrated, she wouldnt have 
recommended an increase in compensation. The consumer feels let down because he 
explains that he spoke  to various  agents  and no one made him aware  of the charge,  despite 
this being a known problem to Barclays. Furthermore, the consumer didnt feel that his 
concerns were taken  seriously when he tried to raise a complaint. This is because when he 
raised a complaint this wasnt initially logged. He explains  that the time he spent  on the 
phone trying to resolve the matter caused him stress and anxiety.
Barclays didnt accept  what she had said. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms concerns that Barclays may be profiting from placing the onus on 
the consumer  to spot the problem, particularly given  the task he faced persuading the call 
handlers there was a problem. But I am not a regulator. My role is to look at his complaint  
and decide what  is fair. Concerns of a more general  nature  should  be addressed to the 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
It is agreed by both parties that Barclays fell short of its customers reasonable expectations. 
It failed to:
tell them  that an ERC  would  be charged which they would need to call to ask to be 
removed
deal with their complaint until they had made a number of calls  Mr M and Mr S 
have said they spent three hours  on the phone
call them back when it promised to do so.
Barclays feels the £100 compensation it has offered/paid is fair compensation. 
Mr M and Mr S do not.
When I read Mr Ms original email to this service I got a strong sense of how let down he felt 
by Barclays. He felt his problem wasnt prioritised and that his time was wasted. 
Subsequently Barclays has focussed  mainly on dates and the speed with which  the ERC 
was refunded when  responding to the adjudicators recommendation that the compensation 
be increased. I think this misses the point. The ERC was refunded  quickly  in large part 
because of Mr M and Mr Ss determination  to resolve matters which led them to phone back  
again and again. That they were refunded swiftly doesnt take away from the fact that they 
will have experienced  shock when they saw the ERC on their statement, frustration at having  
to make a number of calls and disappointment  that their experience  didnt feel like a priority 
to the bank.
Ref: DRN62778233Taking all of the above into account the recommendation of the adjudicator  seems  fair to me. 
So if Barclays has already  paid them £100  it should  pay a further  £50. And if it hasnt already 
paid them £100 it should pay them £150.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to ensure the total 
compensation it pays to Mr M and Mr S for this complaint is £150. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 May 2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6277823