K820x#14complaint
Miss Ts complaint is about Amtrust Europe  Limited declining the claim she made  under  the 
warranty she took out for her sofa.  She made a claim for staining to the sofa and wanted 
Amtrust to clean it, but it said it wouldnt.
background
In July 2016 Miss T had her new sofas delivered.  When she bought them she also bought  a 
warranty that provided cover for individual incidents  of accidental staining  and/or accidental 
damage. The policy terms  and conditions made  it clear that the warranty  doesnt provide 
cover for damage that naturally occurs due to normal  use and ageing or cover for the items 
becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over time.
The terms and conditions  went  on to explain  the limitations on cover   what isnt covered by 
the warranty. Included  in this was any gradually  occurring stain  or damage,  any gradually 
occurring general  soiling  resulting in build-up and any multiple stains  occurring over a period 
of time and routine repair/cleaning carried out.
In May 2018  Miss T made a claim for staining to her sofas. When  asked to identify on 
diagrams where on the sofas the staining  was, Miss T circled the entire  diagram, front and 
back for both the two and three  seater. She explained that:
young children  in the house have drew  marker on sofa, got dirt and sauce on sofa, vomited. 
numerous occasions over short period of time.
Amtrust sent out a technician to examine the furniture. His report said that there were stains 
in multiple locations and in his opinion these had been caused  by general use. He wrote  that 
there were stains all over suite, on both sides of cushions and stains  on top of stains over 
time.
Amtrust asked for further comment on the staining from the technician  specifically  whether  
he thought a childrens party could account for the amount of staining.  The technician  
responded by explaining  that the staining looked as if they had been there for some  time 
and was ingrained.
Amtrust declined the claim  as it considered  that the stains had occurred gradually over time, 
which was excluded under the policy terms.
Miss T didnt accept this and complained.  When Amtrust didnt change its decision she 
referred her complaint  to this service.  One of our investigators considered  the complaint and 
recommended it be upheld. Miss T accepted  this conclusion  but Amtrust didnt. As 
agreement couldnt  be reached,  the complaint has been passed  to me to consider.
On 15 January 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  on this complaint. In that document  I 
explained my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them. An excerpt  is detailed  below.
Insurance policies,  including warranties  such as Miss Ts are designed  to provide cover for 
one off events. They  dont provide for general wear and tear associated with the normal  use 
of an item and they dont cover maintenance requirements. 
Ref: DRN69684892In Miss Ts case, the warranty provides for the cleaning of stains  that have occurred due to 
one-off events, such as spills. It doesnt provide  cover for the maintenance of the suite,  such  
as periodic cleaning  needed due to use (or its pale colour).
There will usually  be a time limit contained within such warranties as to when  a claim must 
be made by  within a certain period after a stain has happened. This is because  the longer  
a stain remains on fabric before an attempt to remove it, the less likely it is that cleaning will 
succeed. Again, this is why a build-up  of staining  is excluded from a policy because firstly it 
means that some of the stains  will usually have been there for some time,  and secondly,  the 
types of stain may vary and so cleaning will be more difficult. Overall, there is far less 
chance of success.  Insurers dont generally agree to cover  things that they know they are 
unlikely to be able to successfully repair. 
The technician has said that there  is a lot of staining on Miss Ts suite and I can see from the 
photographs that is the case. I can also see that there are areas where  there is general 
soiling, such as on the arms, as would be expected. The technician has said that the staining 
is ingrained and that there are stains on top of stains, indicating  a general build-up of 
damage over time. 
Miss T has said that rather than accumulating over a long period of time,  most of the staining 
happened over two specific days.  Although she said that further  incidents  happened 
between those days and the technicians visit. 
It is difficult in cases  such as these  where the accounts of the damage are so very different. 
I must decide, based on the evidence I have,  which  one is more persuasive and, therefore, 
likely. Given that the technician does this kind of assessment daily as part of his job, I 
consider it reasonable that his comments and opinion be considered  as expert evidence  
when I make my determination. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment  to Miss T, but I am not persuaded that the 
technician is wrong  in his conclusions that the staining and soiling has happened  over an 
extended period  of time. The photographs clearly  show that there has been a build-up and, 
as an expert  in issues of this nature,  I am satisfied that the technicians conclusions  about its 
age being more than a few weeks old is one I can reasonably rely on. As detailed  above, 
multiple stains and a build-up  of soiling are excluded from the cover  available under the 
warranty. Therefore, I cant find that Amtrust did anything wrong when it declined the claim.
Amtrust confirmed that it accepted my decision  and had nothing further to add.
Miss T said that it was fine that I had reached  the outcome  I had. She, however, asked 
whether Amtrust would deal with any claims for staining that happen in the future, as the 
warranty has a couple of years to run.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments from the outset to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new points or provided any new evidence  I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Ref: DRN69684893However, I would  like to respond  to Miss Ts question. She still has a valid warranty  on her 
furniture and so can make claims if something covered by the warranty  happens during the 
remaining term. However, as I explained above, the warranty  is not a maintenance plan and 
it may be that if maintenance isnt completed,  the outcome of any future claim might be 
affected. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss T to accept or reject my decision before 
7 April 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6968489