K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mrs P have complained about  the way a claim  for an escape  of water under their 
home insurance policy has been handled by U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
Mr P and Mrs P made a claim for damage caused by water getting into their basement  
kitchen from a leaking pipe under  their patio. They said theyd  decided  to renovate  their 
home because of the damage and move  the kitchen upstairs.
UKI settled  the cost of finding the leak but it didnt  agree to pay for any damage  to the pipe 
or the kitchen. Mr P and Mrs P brought  a complaint to this service. In August 2015 another  
ombudsman didnt uphold  the complaint. He said because of the lack of information 
regarding the cause of damage  to various  parts  of their property and how much  it would  cost 
to repair, he couldnt  say whether or not UKIs settlement offer was fair.  
UKI said it wouldnt consider their claim further unless Mr P and Mrs P provided a structural  
engineers report  to show that the damage  to the basement  and foundations was as a result  
of the water  leak. It also wanted  to see invoices for the labour costs.
Mr P and Mrs P said UKIs loss adjuster agreed that their claim could be progressed  without 
a structural engineers report. They  provided a list of all the costs theyre claiming  which 
come to over £27,000.
They brought another complaint to this service.  Our investigator said Mr P and Mrs P were 
out of time in bringing some  of the points  in their complaint to us, so he couldnt look at 
these. He didnt  uphold the remainder  of their complaint. He didnt think  UKI had treated 
them unfairly. As Mr P and Mrs P didnt agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P and Mrs P made a number of complaints to UKI about  various  aspects of their claim. 
Where they referred  their complaints to this service more  than six months  after UKIs final 
response, I can only consider them with UKIs consent. UKI hasnt consented and Im not 
aware of any exceptional  circumstances why the complaints  werent brought  to us in time. 
So I agree with our investigator that I cant look at these.  I also cant  look at anything  which  
has already been  considered as part of an ombudsmans previous decision.
I think there are two remaining issues that I can look at. These  are whether UKIs loss 
adjuster agreed  that a structural engineers report didnt have to be provided now that the 
property has been repaired  and if so, whether that should be binding on UKI. The other issue  
is whether it was fair for UKI to require Mr P and Mrs P to provide invoices for the work that 
theyve had carried out when it had previously  settled  part of their claim without an invoice.
In January 2018 the loss adjuster advised UKI 
Ref: DRN60176462In respect  of the work undertaken the Insured has been  able to provide receipts for the 
materials purchased but nothing  for the labour costs which she advised she paid the 
contractors in cash.
We appear to be no further forward  with this case as the Insured is unable to provide  
the necessary structural report  on the property.
We consider an option for Insurers would be to appoint one of our own surveyors  to 
assist in the costs of the items the Insured is claiming for. However, we would appreciate  
your advice on how you wish us to proceed.
In response UKI said that it was maintaining its position regarding  the structural report and 
invoices and asked  him to tell Mr P and Mrs P this. It appears  he did so.
I appreciate that not long before this Mr P and Mrs P may have been given the impression by 
the loss adjuster that UKI might change its decision to require a structural  report and 
invoices before settling  their claim.  I think its more likely  than not that Mr P and Mrs P 
misinterpreted what he said more  positively than he might have intended.  But at the end of 
the day even if the loss adjuster did inadvertently mislead them in this regard, they didnt 
change their position as a result of this and were no worse off as a result of the 
misunderstanding. By that I mean  they didnt lose the opportunity  to get a structural report  
and invoices as a result. So even if I thought theyd been misled,  I wouldnt think that justified 
UKI changing its position now on the claim.
I also appreciate that the loss assessor  acting for Mr P and Mrs P thought UKI had enough 
information to settle the claim.  But ultimately  this is for UKI to decide rather  than someone  
acting for the insured.
Mrs P says that previously UKI settled part of their claim without an invoice. The requirement 
for invoices  is really a subsidiary issue because without the structural report to show  what 
work was required to make good  damage caused by the escape of water,  the invoices 
themselves, if they become available, are unlikely to be enough to satisfy UKI that the 
outstanding parts of the claim should be settled. 
But for the sake of completeness I should say that I dont think  UKI has acted unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs P are claiming a large  amount of money  for works including  new foundations, 
underpinning and a retaining wall, new basement membrane and fittings, reinstating the 
patio and garden. Just because UKI paid a much lesser amount at the outset for finding  the 
leak without requiring an invoice doesnt mean  that its unreasonable  of it now to require 
invoices when its being asked to pay considerably more.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6017646