K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled 
their claim for subsidence of their home. It has identified  that the problem was caused  by 
vegetation dehydrating the soil beneath  the foundations of their home, but its told them  it 
wont remove the vegetation as part of the claim  Mr and Mrs F have to do that.
background
In the summer  of 2018 Mr and Mrs F noticed damage to their home. Having had a previous 
house suffered  subsidence, they contacted RSA to make  a subsidence claim on their 
insurance policy with it. RSA arranged for their home to be assessed. 
RSA accepted the claim for subsidence.  It identified that the cause  of the movement  was 
vegetative induced clay shrinkage.  It told Mr and Mrs F that they would  need  to arrange for 
the implicated vegetation  to be removed and it would then repair  their property. 
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with this and complained. RSA maintained  its position  the 
insurance policy only covered repair of the damage caused by the subsidence,  not the cost 
of preventing further subsidence.
The complaint was referred  to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
recommended the complaint be upheld. He said that the insurer  needed to provide a lasting 
repair, and if it had to remove the vegetation  to stabilise the property in order to make sure 
the repair is lasting,  thats what it needed to do. It was recommended that RSA arrange  for 
the removal of the offending vegetation.
RSA strongly disagreed  with the investigator and considered his recommendation was 
clearly going  against  the policy terms and conditions. It reiterated  its previous comments 
about what was covered  under those  terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs F accepted the investigators  findings.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Technically, an insurer  is only responsible  for repairing the damage to a property caused by 
an insured peril. However, in the case of subsidence, the property needs to be stable to 
allow the insurer to fulfil its liability under the policy  the repair  has to last and it wont if the 
property is still moving.  As such,  given the potential complexity of subsidence  movement, it 
has been for many years normal industry practice  for the insurer  to take whatever action is 
needed to stabilise the property so that it can fulfil its contractual obligations. 
That approach is different  to the concept  of an insurer being asked to complete  works to stop 
a property from ever suffering subsidence  again.  Such works  are usually described as 
preventative and an insurer could not reasonably  be asked to complete them  under the 
terms of an insurance policy or good industry practice.  
Ref: DRN61717072As such,  I can only conclude that RSA has acted inappropriately in this case.  It should  make 
arrangements for the vegetation  it identified  as the cause of the subsidence movement  to be 
removed as soon  as possible so that the property can stabilise, and repairs  can be carried  
out. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I order 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc to arrange  for the vegetation removal  it identified as 
necessary to stabilise  Mr and Mrs Fs home and allow  it to be repaired.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6171707