K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Lloyds Bank  PLC, mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
when she took out a credit card in 1997.  Mrs H says she didnt know the PPI was optional.
background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and said it shouldnt  be upheld.  However,  I can 
see Mrs H has already  been refunded some money  for the commission Lloyds got from the 
sale. Mrs H still thinks the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place and so her complaint has been  
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  about the mis-sale.
We asked Lloyds for a copy of Mrs Hs application  form which  she used in 1997 to get her 
new credit  card. Ive seen  quite a few similar  forms to this and having carefully looked over it, 
I think Mrs H was given the option  of whether or not to have PPI. 
I say this because  there  was a box about  PPI on the form, under a heading which said 
Optional Features.  This invited the consumer to either tick or leave blank the box 
depending on whether or not they wanted to have any PPI cover.  I can see this was ticked 
on Mrs Hs form and that she signed  nearby. So I think this is strong evidence that Mrs H did 
want PPI when she applied for her card.  And I think shed have known it wasnt something 
she needed to have if she didnt want it.
The type of form Mrs H filled out shows me this was a postal application and I think  she 
wouldve filled out all the details on it in her own time. So Lloyds  didnt recommend this 
policy to Mrs H. This means it wasnt under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for 
her. But it still had to provide enough information  to enable Mrs H to decide  whether or not 
she wanted to buy the cover.
Because Ive seen  many of these forms before, I think that as well as giving Mrs H the option 
on the form, Lloyds  set out briefly what the cost of the cover  would be. The form also 
described what the cover was for. I obviously cant say Mrs H was given all the information 
she shouldve been given, but Im afraid  this doesnt alter my decision.
This is because the evidence  shows  she chose  the cover. Mrs H was also eligible  for the 
cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions  we tended  to see in some of these 
policies. The policy cost around £0.79 per £100  of the outstanding monthly  balance  on Mrs 
Hs card.  In my experience this is similar to many  of the policies that were sold with credit 
cards at the time and Ive seen  nothing  that suggests Mrs H would have found these monthly  
charges unaffordable. 
Mrs H told us she had sickness protection already with her job and that she didnt need this 
type of cover. I completely  understand why shes told us about  this and Ive thought very 
Ref: DRN69050482carefully about her overall situation  and the benefits Mrs H says she enjoyed. But Im afraid 
they dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use to her. If she made a successful claim on 
the policy, Mrs H wouldve been able to have her outstanding balance on the card reduced 
by 10% each month for up to 12 months. This wouldve been in addition to any other means  
she had in place.
So I think the PPI policy was of use to Mrs H and I think this is probably why she made  the 
selection on the application  form to buy it. I dont think  any more information  wouldve 
changed this.
For me to uphold this case, Id need  to think it was more likely that Mrs H wasnt  given an 
option or there were some other serious flaws in the way the policy  was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. I was also shown Mrs Hs credit card statements over an extended time 
period. These show that cardholder protection  was being regularly debited  from her 
account. And so I think Mrs H wouldve been able to see the PPI was in place.
Accordingly, I dont  agree this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint about the mis-sale. 
I understand Mrs H has already received  a payment from Lloyds in respect of the 
commission which was over 50% of the policy premium. I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to 
do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6905048