K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Charter Court Financial  Services Limited wouldnt let him make a 
further deposit into his fixed term bond.
background
Mr M told us that he had a fixed term bond  with Charter Court  which  was due to mature. He 
wanted to re-invest  those existing savings in another fixed term bond with Charter  Court. He 
said that hes also allowed to add some extra money to that bond  in the first fourteen days 
after its opened. Mr M was going  to be overseas during  all of that time. 
Mr Ms bond matured, and a new one was opened.  Then he tried to make  a payment of 
£5,000 into his bond. Mr M is only allowed  to put money into the bond from a nominated 
account, and he can only pay from that account if he receives  a phone call on his mobile. 
But he found  out that he wasnt able to receive the call, because he was out of the country. 
So he paid from a different account  instead. Charter Court sent the money back.
Mr M said that he wanted Charter Court to accept the money from a different account,  so he 
could pay it straight away. Or he wanted it to extend the time period for funding the bond, so 
he could pay some money in when  he got back to the UK. If it couldnt  do either of those 
things, then he wanted Charter Court to close  the account. 
Charter Court said that Mr M only had until 22 June to get the extra  money into his bond. If 
he sent any money after that, it would be sent back.  And if he sent any money from a 
different account,  it would also be sent back.  Charter Court  said that it does that to protect  
the security of its customers, and prevent fraud.  
Charter Court also said that Mr M wasnt able to close the bond. It said that he could put the 
extra £5,000 into a new bond instead, if he would like. 
When Charter Court wrote to our service,  it said that it thought that Mr M had had sufficient 
time, before his old bond matured, to change his nominated bank account, or to ensure 
through other means  that he could send money  from his nominated account while  he was 
outside the UK. 
But then Charter Court wrote again and said that it thought it couldve done more to help 
Mr M. It said that it couldve  given Mr M an extra 7 days to pay money into his bond,  in light 
of the unforeseen circumstances. So it wanted to honour Mr Ms initial  request, and allow 
him to deposit the additional  £5,000 into his bond, and it would backdate the interest on that 
until 14 June. Charter Court also said it would  like to pay him £50 in compensation to say 
sorry, because it couldve been  more helpful  at the time.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Charter Court had been fair. She said that it shouldve 
offered Mr M this help at the time. She didnt think that an offer to extend  time by seven days 
would actually have  made a difference,  because Mr M would still have been overseas then, 
but she still thought that Charter Court shouldve offered. 
Our adjudicator said that Charter Court had now made an offer,  to pay some compensation 
and to do what Mr M asked for when  he complained.  She thought that offer would provide a 
fair and reasonable resolution  to this complaint. 
Ref: DRN65297222Mr M didnt  agree. He said hed asked to put extra money in his account in June. It was now 
September. He didnt  want to pay this money into a bond with Charter  Court  any more. That 
was at least partly because he didnt want to save money  with this business  any more. He 
said that he would prefer to just close the account,  which is what  hed asked Charter Court to 
do at the time if it couldnt accept his additional payment into the account.  
Charter Court wouldnt  do that. It said that it thought that its existing offer was fair. It said that 
it does make clear to customers that they cant close a bond  early, or take any money out 
before it matures.  
A new adjudicator  took over this case  at this point. He said he wouldnt recommend that 
Charter Court closed  the account  early. Mr M said that in that case he would like an 
ombudsman to consider  his complaint.  This case was then passed  to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Charter Court has told our service that it couldve  extended the time for Mr M to fund his 
account. Our adjudicator said that she didnt  think that this wouldve made any 
difference, because  Mr M was still out of the country for all of the extra  seven days  that 
Charter Court now says it couldve offered. Our adjudicator reached a view about  the 
appropriate amount  of compensation in this case on that basis.
-But I thought  that there was something else that Charter Court could perhaps have 
offered Mr M. I hadnt seen anything in the terms and conditions of this account that 
prevented Mr M from changing his nominated  account once the bond is open. So I 
thought Charter  Court couldve told him that he could still change  his nominated account, 
so that he could transfer money from an account  that he was able to access fully while 
he was overseas. He could change his nominated  account online. 
-Mr M didnt think that Charter Court wanted  to help him. Charter Court accepted that it 
couldve done more.  And it looked  to me as if it was possible that Charter  Court  could  
actually have talked  Mr M through how to make the extra deposit at the time.  So I 
thought that Charter Court should  pay a little more than the £50 it has offered in this 
case. I thought  that £100 was the right amount to make  up for the service that Mr M has 
received, and the inconvenience this has caused him. 
-Mr M said he also wanted  to close this account early. But I didnt think  that I should ask 
Charter Court to do that. Charter Court has been clear from the start that money invested 
in this bond has to stay for the whole of the period invested.  Mr M knew  that when he 
reinvested his original bond.  And Charter Court makes decisions about the interest  rate it 
can offer, based on the security of having  that money to invest  for a full year.  I didnt 
think it would be fair and reasonable in this case to insist  that Charter Court  released this 
money. 
-I understood that in in this case,  Mr M would wait until the bond matures, then move  his 
money somewhere else.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides responded, to say that they accepted my decision, and had nothing to add.
Ref: DRN65297223my findings
Even though  neither side has offered anything further in this case, Ive still reconsidered  all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed  my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that Charter Court Financial Services  must  pay Mr M £100  in 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6529722