K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of her car insurance policy.
background
On 1 November  2018, Miss M was driving  her car when it broke down. Smoke  was coming 
out of the engine which led her to believe it had caught fire. Her car was insured by esure  so 
she reported the incident to them the next day. On 2 November, esure  provided Miss M with 
a hire car.
esure said because  they were told there  was a fire, they believed the car would be a total 
loss. They  told Miss M a number of times  that they believed the car would be a total loss. 
esure arranged  for the car to be taken to their salvage agent for it to be assessed by an 
engineer. On 5 November, Miss M called esure and they had a discussion about  a total loss 
settlement. esure said that in the event of a settlement, Miss Ms finance  on the car would be 
paid first. Miss M was eager to get the claim resolved, so she called  esure again on 
6 November to ask if their engineer had completed the report. esure  said the car hadnt yet 
been delivered to the salvage agent. esure  also said it would take five working days  for them 
to tell Miss M what  their decision  on the claim was.
Miss M said that as she was told the car would be a total loss and that she would  be given a 
decision within five working  days,  she started  looking  into getting a loan so that she could 
buy another car.
The car was delivered  to the salvage  agent on 7 November. In the days that followed,     
Miss M called esure a number of times to get a decision. esure  told her there was a delay 
but they would let her know as soon as her car was assessed. Miss M called esure on 
14 November, the date on which esures five working day deadline to give her a decision 
had ended. Miss M explained she wanted  a decision on her claim as she was getting a 
loan to buy another car. esure said the car hadnt yet been assessed,  but they advised her 
to go ahead with getting a loan for another car as they said they will pay off her existing 
finance first once a total loss settlement was made. But later that day, esure decided to 
instruct an independent  engineer to look at the car and they updated Miss M. Miss M was 
unhappy about esures delay in giving her a decision and that she had already been told 
the car was a total loss.
On 16 November, the independent engineer  examined Miss Ms car. He said the reason  for 
the car breaking  down was due to mechanical failure and that the car was repairable. That 
same day Miss M chased esure for an update  asking for the engineers  findings. But esure 
wasnt able to update her. Miss M contacted esure  again on 19 November asking for an 
update. Miss M was unhappy  with the delay and anxious that the hire car given  to her was 
due to be taken  back on 23 November as her policy only allowed a hire car for a maximum 
of 21 days. But esure  said they still didnt know what the outcome of the engineers 
assessment was. 
It wasnt until 22 November that esure  told Miss M that her car suffered a mechanical 
breakdown due to a manufacturers fault, which wasnt covered under her policy. The hire 
car provided  by esure came to an end on 23 November.  Miss M paid almost £100  for a hire 
car for a further five days.
Ref: DRN66737952Miss M complained. She said esure failed to keep to their promise to give her a decision 
within five working days. And that they misinformed her by telling her the car would be a total 
loss. Because  of the delay, Miss M said she spent long periods of time on the phone  to 
esure and others to get the claim resolved. She also said in expectation of receiving a total 
loss decision by 14 November, she started  the process to get a loan for a replacement car. 
She also said esure told her their decision on 22 November,  a day before  the hire car was 
due to end. That gave her little time to make  alternative arrangements which  meant she had 
to pay for a hire car herself.
esure said their decision not to cover the claim  because the damage was due to mechanical 
failure was correct. But they upheld Miss Ms complaint that their service had been poor and 
paid her £150 compensation. But Miss M didnt think that went  far enough and brought  her 
complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it. He felt that esure should pay 
Miss M a further £150, bringing the total compensation to £300. As esure didnt agree with 
our adjudicator, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
Ive considered all of the information provided  to me by the parties carefully. In this decision I 
will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if esure have  dealt 
with Miss M in a fair and reasonable way.
esure have  accepted that their service  fell below the standard  expected. They  clearly  gave  
Miss M the expectation  that her car would be a total loss. They even told her to go ahead  with 
getting a loan for a replacement car. At the time her car broke down and Miss M thought it was 
on fire, her two young children were with her. That experience, understandably, was very 
upsetting for her and her children. So, when esure told her the car would be a total loss, Miss 
M was pleased because she didnt want her car back. Thats because she felt the car was 
unsafe. esure have  said the reason they told Miss M the car was a total loss was because  she 
had told them it had caught fire which suggested  serious damage  had been  caused. But I think 
esure should have  waited  until the car was professionally assessed by an engineer before 
telling her the car would  be a total loss. Having raised her expectations by telling her a number 
of times it would be a total loss, the decision that it wasnt  was upsetting  for Miss M.
Following on from the above,  the delay in having  the car assessed and giving her their 
decision was a source of distress and inconvenience for Miss M. esure said they would tell 
Miss M within five working days  what their decision was. So, Miss M expected a decision by 
14 November. But esure only instructed  the engineer on that day. Its not clear  to me why 
that wasnt done sooner. And although the examination  took place on 16 November, esure 
didnt tell Miss M the outcome  until 22 November. Miss Ms understandable eagerness to get 
a decision to have  the claim concluded meant  she had to call esure  a number of times to ask 
for their decision. She said she spent long periods of time on the phone, which  
inconvenienced her.
Im upholding this complaint. Given the level of distress and inconvenience Miss M 
experienced, I agree with our adjudicator  that £150  compensation  is insufficient.  I therefore 
require esure to increase the compensation by £150  to give a total of £300.
Ref: DRN66737953my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to 
pay Miss M a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
That is in addition to the £150  they have already paid, so the total compensation is £300. 
This should be paid within  28 days of us telling them that Miss M has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than that they must  also pay interest on that amount from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If esure consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Miss M how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6673795