K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that she was chased  by a collection agency  for PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, 
SCA, for a debt, of about £180,  which was not hers.
background
In February 2018,  Miss G received a letter from a debt collection agency,  requesting  a 
payment to clear a debt she owed to PayPal.  
Miss G called the agency to explain she knew nothing  about the debt.  The agency provided 
her with some details. Miss G believed that her ex-husband had opened the account using 
some of her details and then run up the debt himself. She believed  that because  he had 
done that before with other companies.  The agency could confirm that other details used on 
the account were  that of her ex-husband, so they said they would refer back  to PayPal to 
investigate the matter and put collection on hold.
PayPal informed the agency that as Miss G had advised the account was opened as a result 
of family fraud, it was not covered by PayPals  policy. Instead, advising  her to report  it to the 
police.
More communication  followed and the agency  again confirmed that PayPal said there was 
nothing they could do to help.
Miss G took matters into her own hands  and, with the help of a friend, was able to contact 
her ex-husband who took responsibility for paying  the debt. The same  was confirmed by the 
agency; that was in May 2018.
Although the debt was paid, Miss G complained to PayPal, not least because  she was 
concerned adverse information was held about  her  either with PayPal or other agencies  
and she had been chased for something which  was not her fault.
PayPal explained  that whilst they took the matter  seriously, it was not their responsibility  if 
someones details  were used; saying  that was outside of their control. They also said they 
would and could  only divulge  information  as a result  of a police investigation and court  order.
Miss G reported the matter to Action Fraud, but PayPal  said that was insufficient for their 
purposes and only a full police investigation would permit them to reveal any information  
about the account or remove any information  about her.
The complaint was referred  to this Service. The investigator looking into matters,  recognised  
the impasse; PayPal  wanted to hold Miss G liable and did so, but would not reveal  any 
information to justify their action on the basis that Miss G said she was not the account  
holder. It was either her account  or wasnt but in either case PayPal would not provide the 
information. They felt very strongly that to provide any information to her or to this Service  
would breach data protection  regulations.
In the investigators  view,  that was neither fair nor reasonable  and advised  that PayPal 
should pay Miss G £200 for the distress  caused  and remove  the record  of the debt.
Ref: DRN61943382PayPal said that was unfair. They  said that they did not accept that she had not opened the 
account but that it was a matter for the police, especially as she had raised identity theft. 
Given that, they could  not provide the evidence to this Service.  
Miss G was disappointed as this meant  the complaint still was not resolved and felt that the 
award of £200  was not really reflective  of the distress she had experienced.
As a result, I have been asked to review this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too think that PayPal have not treated Miss G fairly.
Under the jurisdiction  of this Service, complaints may be brought  here where an individual  is 
pursued for a debt,  even if the complaint is that they are not the person who should be 
pursued.
It follows that this Service  may examine material to decide whether pursuing the complainant  
for the debt is fair or not. An examination can only be made  of the actual material, 
documents and testimony submitted by the business  and the complainant or any other party 
who can provide  relevant  information.
If a party  chooses  not to provide any information then a decision may only be made  on what  
has been submitted.
Here, PayPal say they are prevented in law from providing the material and to uphold the 
complaint would be unfair in those circumstances.
Im sorry  that PayPal feel that way, but I do not agree.
PayPal feel inhibited in providing the information.  They have interpreted the data protection  
regulations in such a way. My reading  of the regulations do not lead me to consider that 
PayPal are prevented  from defending themselves. It would be perverse if that were the case. 
However, if that is their understanding  and how they have chosen  to interpret and apply the 
regulations, then that is a matter for them. They may wish to refer to the Information  
Commissioners Office  for clarity.
I also think the only condition under  which they would provide the information was 
unreasonable. I agree that identity  theft is a serious matter, but I do not accept that the only 
recourse an individual  has to rectify  the wrong  is to insist the police launch a full 
investigation. In any event, the complainant has no control of the decisions the police can or 
will make.
Miss G did what  was asked of her. She did report the matter  to the police. She could  do no 
more than that but, in any event, that was insufficient for PayPal. It was clear  she could 
never satisfy  the condition  PayPal had stipulated. 
So in considering the merits  of this case I can only consider what I have.
Ref: DRN61943383PayPal feel vindicated that they made the right decision to pursue  Miss G. They have 
provided nothing  for me to examine in deciding whether I think  this is correct  or not.
On the other hand, Miss G has provided  evidence her ex-husband used her and his details 
on the PayPal  account, evidence of another debt he ran up, and that he paid the PayPal 
debt in May 2018. These are strong  indicators that he did indeed  open the PayPal account 
and the person whose debt it was.
I appreciate that it may be the case  that Miss Gs ex-husband duped PayPal into thinking the 
account was Miss Gs, but without seeing  the documents,  the checks they made upon 
account opening and how it operated I am unable to make such  a finding, but Im also 
satisfied such a finding is not necessary to deciding this complaint.
The fact is, I am satisfied on the material I do have that Miss G did not open the account and 
the debt was not hers: PayPal, whether they knew it or not, were  wrong  to pursue her for it.  
I also think that because  PayPal must have realised Miss G could not meet the condition 
they stipulated  (the full police investigation) and that they were never going to supply 
evidence to this Service, this complaint could reasonably have been settled before now.
Based on this, I do not think  that PayPal have  treated Miss G fairly. 
Resolution
What PayPal should know by reference  to the regulations  is that it is incumbent upon  them  
to hold and process  data accurately. If it is incorrect then they must take steps to rectify or 
erase the information.
It is my decision that Miss G did not open the account, the debt was not hers and, therefore, 
no information should be held to indicate that it was. PayPal will need to amend  their records  
accordingly. In addition if any information has been  reported to external bodies  (companies 
or agencies  for example)  then that too is to be amended.
I have considered the amount of £200 as a distress and inconvenience payment. Having 
done so, I think  it is insufficient.  
I bear in mind that, unfortunately, Miss G has suffered  distress  at the hands of her ex-
husband and she has had resolution from other financial  providers,  so I cannot conclude that 
all distress Miss G has felt is because of PayPal and nor would be right that they pay for all 
the distress. To be fair, Miss G is not saying that is the case, but I agree they have 
contributed to her distress and largely it has been avoidable. I also bear in mind  the value of 
the debt (around £180) so I think that a proportionate, fair and reasonable sum is £300.
my final decision
To resolve  this complaint,  I require  PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA , within  4 weeks of the 
receipt of any settlement  confirmation by Miss G to:
1)Pay Miss G £300;
Ref: DRN619433842)Amend internal records to reflect that an account was wrongly taken out in Miss Gs 
name and the debt was not hers;
3)Amend any externally recorded data,  with any company or agency or other body, to 
reflect that an account was wrongly taken out in Miss Gs name and the debt was not 
hers;
4)In the event of any doubt as to the amendment, the records should  instead be 
erased;
5)Provide confirmation  to Miss G within 2 weeks  of having made the amendments that 
a) said amendments have been  made and b) confirmation of the external bodies,  if 
any, whose records  required amending.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6194338