K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. The complaint is brought  on his behalf by a claims  management company.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy which was taken out in 1998. The policy  
provided Mr H with cover for unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr H disagreed, saying, in summary, that he 
didnt know the policy was in place and he was never aware of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Santander has been able to provide some  paperwork from the time of the sale,  but no longer 
has a full record of what took place. This isnt unreasonable  or unsurprising  given this took 
place so long ago. Equally, Mr H cant  remember the detail  of what  was discussed and, 
again, this isnt surprising  I wouldnt expect  him to remember after 20 years. In cases  like 
this, where the evidence  is incomplete  or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have happened  in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
Mr H says he didnt know he had PPI. And I accept  that by the time he complained  about  it, 
he probably had forgotten  that hed had it. But I can see Mr H phoned the policy 
administrators in 1998 to change his payment details and in 1999 to give his new 
employment details.  So he did know  he had a policy then.
I havent seen  anything to suggest the policy wasnt presented as optional. So, on balance,  
I think Santander made Mr H aware  that the policy was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Santander told us it recommended  the PPI, so it had to make sure the policy was suitable  for 
Mr Hs needs. Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable  for him. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances  and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
Mr H chose to be covered for unemployment only. So it seems likely  he decided  that he 
had enough cover if he couldnt  work due to sickness  or an accident.  But he told us that, 
if hed been made unemployed, he wouldnt have received any redundancy pay. The 
mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment  and Mr Hs home was at risk 
if he didnt keep up with the repayments.  The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 
months if hed become  unemployed,  so couldve been a useful benefit.
Ref: DRN65919852Mr H wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits  such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely he needed  better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether  the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr H before he 
agreed to purchase it. I think he probably  wasnt told it would cost around  £15 each 
month until after hed applied  for it. For this reason I have  considered  whether clearer 
information about  the cost would have affected Mr Hs decision to purchase the policy.  
Hed chosen to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely he would 
have made a different decision if better  information about the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santanders recommendation 
was unsuitable  and I dont think Mr H would have made a different decision about taking out 
the policy if better information had been  provided  to him  overall,  I think  he would still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6591985