K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how Kensington Mortgage  Company Limited  has treated him whilst 
hes been struggling to pay his mortgage.
Mr N has been supported in bringing  this complaint by his father. For ease of reading Ill 
simply refer to Mr N throughout  this decision, but that should  be taken to mean his father 
where appropriate.
background
Mr N took out a residential  mortgage with Kensington in April 2006. In July 2008 the mortgage 
went into arrears,  and has remained so to date.
In July 2009 Mr N admitted that the property had been let out, and so he wasnt  living  there. I 
understand Mr Ns parents moved  into the property as tenants in 2014 after their own property 
was repossessed.
Over the years Mr N has made various complaints to Kensington. Each time, Kensington sent 
a final response addressing the issues raised  in the complaint. In a decision earlier  this month  I 
set out details of what we can and cant look at. I said there  are four issues we can consider:
Kensington requested a copy of Mr Ns building insurance policy when it had already 
been provided.
Kensington has securitised the mortgage.
Mr N was told to refer his complaint to this service.
Mr N didnt think Kensington had treated him with civility and compassion (albeit this is 
only in relation to points not covered in the previous final response letters as set out in 
my jurisdiction  decision).
As our adjudicator had already given his opinion I asked both sides to let me have any final 
submissions within two weeks.  Neither side responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution  
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although  
Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because  I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Under our rules,  we can consider a complaint  from a consumer. Mr N (junior) is a consumer, 
and so meets the definition of an eligible  complainant set out in our rules. The rules also 
say that a complaint may be brought on behalf  of an eligible complainant by a person 
authorised by the eligible  complainant or authorised by law. In this respect,  Mr Ns father is 
bringing the complaint on Mr Ns behalf.
Ref: DRN69406802But I must explain that, although  his father  is representing him, it is Mr N who is Kensingtons 
customer. His fathers role is to bring Mr Ns complaint on his behalf,  in the same way that 
other consumers might  instruct a solicitor  or other professional to represent them in a 
complaint. But this does not entitle Mr Ns father  to air his own grievances  about Kensington, 
or the banking industry in general,  because hes not the eligible complainant here;  his role is 
limited to putting forward his sons complaint. Mr Ns parents circumstances and their 
complaints about  other financial business  arent relevant here, as this complaint is just about 
how Kensington has treated Mr N as its customer.
The four issues  we can look at are very straightforward.
Kensington requested a copy of Mr Ns building insurance policy when it had already been  
provided.
Kensington apologised to Mr N for asking for a copy of his building  insurance policy when it 
had already been provided. It also said it had updated Mr Ns information, reversed the 
alternative insurance policy charge it had debited to the mortgage  account, and offered £100 
in compensation  for its mistake. 
That seems  a fair and reasonable  outcome so I dont  order  Kensington to do anything more.
Kensington has securitised the mortgage.
The fact that Kensington  has securitised the mortgage doesnt mean what  it seems Mr N 
thinks it does. Hes said the fact its been  securitised means that if the property is 
repossessed not only will Kensington  get its money back, but it would  stand to gain the 
£100,000 equity in the property at his expense. 
If the property is repossessed Mr N would  get exactly the same amount back from the sale 
whether the mortgage was securitised or not. If theres any equity left after the mortgage 
debt is repaid (and all the relevant sale costs are paid) then that would be passed to Mr N; 
securitisation makes absolutely no difference to what Mr N would receive (if anything).  
The contract allows Kensington to securitise the mortgage, and Mr Ns mortgage  contract  
with Kensington  remains  unchanged.
Mr N was told to refer his complaint to this service.
Financial businesses have rules to follow when dealing with complaints. One of those rules 
says that if a business cant resolve a complaint to the consumers  satisfaction  - or if itll be 
unable to respond within the timescale allowed - it must provide referral rights  to our service.  
A business doesnt have to carry on corresponding with a consumer about their complaint if 
it thinks its said everything  it can.
Mr N didnt think Kensington had treated him with civility  and compassion
I have sympathy for Mr N as clearly hes been in financial difficulties for a long time, and the 
pressure to keep  up the payments must be considerable. Kensington has a duty to treat 
customers facing financial hardship  fairly  and, in all the circumstances, it would be difficult  
for me to conclude  that it hasnt  done so in Mr Ns case. Ive also not seen anything to make  
me think Kensington didnt treat Mr N with civility and compassion.
Ref: DRN69406803Mr Ns mortgage has been  in arrears for over a decade, with the arrears getting  higher over 
time. Despite this being a residential  mortgage  Mr N admitted in July 2009 that hed rented 
out the property,  and hes never moved back in. So its not a case of this being Mr Ns home 
such that, if it was sold to repay the debt, hed be homeless. Considering the timeframe - 
and the fact Mr N isnt living in the property - I think Kensington has been  very patient in not 
taking further  action. I understand Mr Ns parents are living in the property, but theyre  not 
Kensingtons customers here so it doesnt need to consider their situation when deciding 
whether or not to take possession of Mr Ns property.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6940680