K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002 (the policy  started in 2002  but was signed for at the end of 2001.) Mr and Mrs J says 
Coventry Building Society mis-sold  them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Js circumstances at the time of the sale (as far as we have  been  told and been able to 
establish from the available evidence)  as well as the PPI policy  benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Js. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Js complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think, on balance,  Coventry B/Soc made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs J didnt have to take 
out the PPI and they chose to take it out. I say this because while Coventry B/Soc  no 
longer has a copy of Mr and Mrs Js mortgage or PPI application, it has provided us with 
an example of what it says is what Mr and Mrs J would have seen and completed when 
they took out their further advance and PPI. And Ive not seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr and Mrs J saw something  very different.
Ref: DRN61540192Looking at this I can see Mr and Mrs J were  given a choice in the mortgage application  
they had to indicate whether they wanted  PPI or not by ticking the relevant box. And to 
take out the policy they had to complete  and sign a separate application and direct debit 
mandate to allow the premiums to be taken  from their bank account.
So taking everything into account, I think its likely Mr and Mrs J chose to take out PPI 
and did so without  undue  pressure.
Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Coventry B/Soc recommended the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs J - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did 
have to give Mr and Mrs J enough  clear and timely information so they could decide  for 
themselves if it was right for them.
Given the limited evidence from the time,  I accept its possible the information Coventry 
B/Soc gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive 
found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.  Ive 
not seen anything to show or suggest  the cover was fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs 
J - for example Mr J as the sole policyholder hasnt said anything  which  leads me to 
believe he was affected by the significant  exclusions on or limits to the cover  (we asked 
Mr J to provide us with more  detail about  his circumstances at the time of the sale but he 
hasnt replied.) And I dont  think it was too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought 
they were buying from the information  they were likely given.  There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems. At around £32 a 
month it also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs J would have  
declined the cover  had Coventry B/Soc done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs J would  have still taken out PPI. The policy  was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that they would have  taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Js representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Coventry B/Soc should have disclosed the 
poor value  and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Js representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific  facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Js individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Js particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means  Coventry B/Soc  doesnt  have to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN61540193my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6154019