K821x#15complaint
Mr and Ms C complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated them  unfairly when the term of 
their interest only mortgage expired.
background
Mr and Ms C took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2007. Part was on interest only payment 
terms. The mortgage term expired in June  2017  with an unpaid  balance of about  £100,000. 
Mr and Ms C also had a mortgage  current account (MCA) with an unpaid balance of about 
£95,000. This was also secured on their house. 
Mr and Ms C expected an insurance  policy to repay  the mortgage balance,  but this turned 
out not to be the case. And theyd expected to be able to continue  to make monthly 
payments to repay  the MCA balance after the mortgage term expired.
Mr and Ms C looked into other  ways  to repay the mortgage, including  re-mortgaging with 
another provider  or switching to repayment terms with Barclays. In early  2019 they put their 
property on the market for sale. 
Barclays started possession proceedings, with a court hearing scheduled for April 2019.  To 
avoid this, Mr and Ms C accepted an offer for the property below the valuation. 
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties. I said that I didnt think Barclays  had been fair. I 
said it should pay £1,500 to Mr and Ms C for their upset and refund any legal fees and costs 
applied to their account  from 25 January 2019, when Mr C emailed Barclays solicitors with 
evidence he was marketing the property for sale. 
Neither Barclays nor Mr C and Ms C responded to my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term of Mr and Ms Cs mortgage  expired in mid-2017. They owed about £195,000. Mr 
and Ms C said theyd expected a policy to repay the mortgage balance when the term 
expired. They needed time to look into why this didnt  happen.
Mr and Ms C met with a Barclays mortgage adviser  in early 2018.  Barclays  said their re-
mortgage application wasnt affordable due to their income  and levels of unsecured debt. 
Ms C sought  advice from an independent financial adviser, about re-mortgaging with another  
provider. Barclays put action on hold to mid-June  2018 while Mr and Ms C looked into this. 
Mr and Ms C were  unsuccessful in re-financing with another provider and asked Barclays  
about a repayment plan.  Ms C said they were  willing to pay £2,500  per month.  Barclays 
declined as it would have taken between 7 to 8 years to repay  the mortgage. Barclays asked 
Mr and Ms C to pay about £3,100 per month  being all of their monthly  disposable income 
less £100. This would have repaid the debt within five years. Mr C has told us they didnt  
agree as they were concerned theyd have to take money out of his business each month 
without any flexibility. They didnt think this was responsible and might not be sustainable. As 
Mr and Ms C didnt  agree, Barclays started  recovery action.
Ref: DRN68461482Ms C wrote to Barclays in October 2018  saying  she felt it wasnt taking notice  of their 
circumstances. Barclays didnt respond  to her until February 2019.
In January 2019 Mr and Ms C decided to market  their house  for sale and asked Barclays to 
give them  time to sell the property. Mr C provided a valuation and sales  particulars. Barclays 
wanted Mr and Ms C to update their income  and expenditure  information,  and said it would 
continue to a court hearing if this wasnt provided. 
Mr and Mrs C sent a form theyd completed  with a debt advisory service, setting out their 
financial position. They also said they were looking at taking out a buy to let mortgage and 
letting out the property.  In early March 2019  they reduced the sales  price for their property. 
They told Barclays they would take whichever option came first to repay  the mortgage. They 
had an offer for their property and told Barclays  it would take about six weeks  to complete.
Barclays continued with recovery action, with a court hearing  scheduled  for late April 2019.  It 
adjourned this about a week before the hearing  date, when Mr and Ms C brought their 
complaint to us. Mr and Ms C exchanged  contracts in early  May 2019 and the sale 
completed in early June  2019. They sold the property for less than the valuation to secure  a 
quick sale and avoid  the risk of possession.
Did Barclays act fairly?
There were significant  changes to the rules on mortgage lending in 2014, following the 
mortgage market  review. The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA)  sets out in 
its rules that it expects stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest  only 
mortgages, repayment strategy before  lenders agree  to enter into or vary mortgages.  
However, there are exceptions to this for mortgages  taken out before 2014. Barclays  would 
have been able to extend the term of Mr and Ms Cs mortgage on a repayment basis,  
despite any concerns  about affordability, if this would be in their best interests.  Based  on 
what Ive seen, I dont  think Barclays considered  whether  this would be in Mr and Ms Cs 
best interests. It had an opportunity to do this in early 2018  (when  it said a repayment 
mortgage wasnt affordable) and again  in mid to late 2018 (when it rejected Mr and Ms Cs 
proposal saying  they could  afford to pay more). 
Barclays was entitled to expect the debt to be repaid. But I dont think it was fair for Barclays  
to reject Mr and Ms Cs proposals  based  only on its assessment of their income and 
expenditure without  asking  them more  about their circumstances.  Barclays  has to treat 
customers fairly and I dont think it can do this without taking their individual  circumstances 
into account. 
Lenders should only take possession as a last resort, when all other  reasonable attempts to 
resolve the position have failed. I dont think that was the case here. While some time had 
passed after the term expired, Mr and Ms C were in contact  with Barclays  about  the steps 
they were taking to repay the mortgage and provided the evidence it asked for. I think  it 
should have given Mr and Ms C a reasonable amount of time to market the property, instead 
it continued possession  action. 
What happens  now?
Ref: DRN68461483I dont think Barclays treated Mr and Ms C fairly and I think its right that it pays 
compensation. Ive considered the consequences of Barclays  errors, and the effect  on Mr 
and Ms C.
I think theres a reasonable prospect Barclays would have agreed a term extension was in 
Mr and Ms Cs best interests if it had considered their proposals fairly. This might  have 
avoided them having to sell their home  and move into rented accommodation.  Mr and Ms C 
dont have enough equity from the sale to buy a property outright and their ages (mid-sixties) 
could make getting a new mortgage difficult.  
I dont know if Mr and Ms C would have obtained  a better price  for their house if theyd been  
able to market  it for longer, or been  able to re-finance on a buy to let basis.  So I dont think  I 
can fairly require Barclays  to pay compensation for them selling the property for less than 
the valuation.  But I do think  Mr and Ms C were caused unnecessary  upset by it pursuing  
possession action. They must have felt under considerable pressure to sell their property 
rather than continue to market it and wait for an offer nearer the valuation.
Overall, I think £1,500 compensation for Mr and Ms Cs upset is fair and reasonable. I also 
think its fair for Barclays  to refund any legal  fees and costs applied  to Mr and Ms Cs 
account from 25 January  2019, when Mr C emailed Barclays solicitors with evidence he was 
marketing the property for sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay to Mr and 
Ms C:
£1,500; and
a payment equal to all legal fees and legal  costs applied to Mr and Ms Cs account from 
25 January 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2021.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6846148