K821x#15complaint
Mrs T has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold her a credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs T took out the PPI in March 2004 at the same time as she arranged  the credit card in 
branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint  and Ill explain  why.
BoS doesnt have a copy of Mrs Ts application  form. But we have seen copies of the types 
of forms that BoS was using at the time and BoS has provided a sample form in this 
instance. The form has a separate section for insurance, with PPI being one of the insurance  
products that could  be purchased. From  what we know of BoSs  sales process at the time, 
there would have been a discussion about  PPI and then a pre-printed cross would appear in 
the box on the form to request the policy only if someone had agreed to take it.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Ts recollection of the 
sale has faded. Looking  at the evidence,  I think it is more likely that the optional nature of the 
policy was explained.  It seems to me that Mrs T probably decided to buy it, knowing that she 
didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
BoS advised Mrs T to buy the policy. Therefore in recommending the PPI to Mrs T it needed 
to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Mrs Ts circumstances at the time,  
it was suitable  for her.
Mrs T says she would have received six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if 
she was off work sick. She says that she therefore would have been unlikely to need  to 
claim. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to this and potentially for longer  than 
she would  have received full pay for. And she didnt have any savings to fall back  on. Mrs T 
has said that family would  have helped, but other people cant always be relied  upon  as their 
circumstances can change. So I think the policy could have provided her with a useful 
benefit at what  would  have been a difficult time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mrs T wasnt affected by any of those things. 
As I think  that Mrs T had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont  think that further  
information would have caused  her to change her mind.
Ref: DRN65149172This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mrs T paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland plc has already offered to 
give Mrs T back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mrs T now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6514917