K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains St Andrews Insurance Plc was wrong to refuse a claim  he made under his 
card protection policy.
background
Mr T held a card protection policy thats  since  been  cancelled. Hes provided some  of the 
documentation and this shows it was underwritten by St Andrews  for some of the relevant 
time at least. Mr T and his wife are unhappy  with a number of disputed  transactions that 
occurred on their accounts as well as other financial irregularities.  Mr T tried to claim for 
them under the card protection policy but St Andrews said they werent  covered.
An investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ts complaint  be upheld. He was satisfied the things  
Mr T had claimed for werent covered by the policy. Mr T didnt agree. The complaint has 
therefore been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  my decision will disappoint Mr T. 
But having  done so, I agree with the investigator that the things Mr T has claimed for werent 
covered by the card protection policy.
The key facts Mr T has provided for the card protection policy set out the insurance  benefits 
as being:
(a)If your financial cards  are lost or stolen we will pay up to £1,500 for losses that 
occur due to the fraudulent use of your card BEFORE your card is reported  lost 
or stolen  to us and/or  your card issuer.
(b)If your financial cards  are lost or stolen we will pay up to £75,000 for losses that 
occur due to the fraudulent use of your card AFTER your card is reported lost or 
stolen to us and/or  your card issuer.
(c)If your cash or bank notes are lost or stolen we will pay up to £200 in any 12 
month period  to replace  this money.
(d)If your driving licence or passport is lost or stolen and these  items  must be 
replaced whilst you are outside  of the UK we will pay up to £100  in any 12 month 
period to replace these documents.
(e)We will also pay up to £100 in any 12 month period for telephone calls made  to 
notify your card issuer, the police or us that your cards have been lost or stolen, 
in order to locate  and retrieve lost luggage  or keys marked with a tag, to obtain 
emergency documentation or to obtain  emergency  medical  assistance  whilst 
outside of the UK.
Taking everything into account  Im satisfied the relevant insurance benefits  here were  
protection for lost or stolen cards being  used fraudulently and for physical cash  being lost or 
stolen.
Ref: DRN61588562Mr T has referred  to a burglary  of his and his wifes home. He says he reported  cards as lost 
or stolen  following the burglary.  For the losses hes now claiming hes set out details of a 
number of disputed  transactions over a long period  of time. As well as details of a cheque 
hes said was deposited but not credited  and a number of loan applications he says were 
fraudulent. 
I havent set out the disputed transactions in detail.  But nothing Ive been provided with 
suggests they were  connected to cards that had been lost or stolen. Instead they appear to 
be things like unauthorised cheques,  transfers and bankers drafts. Im also satisfied cheques 
not being credited and fraudulent loan applications  dont fall into any of the categories of 
what the policy covered.  
Mr T says cards  were defined to include  cheques. But like the investigator, I dont agree with 
his interpretation.  Im satisfied from the definition that its cheque cards that were  covered by 
the policy  not cheques. As the investigator explained, cheque cards  are cards which banks 
and building societies issued as a guarantee of payment of cheques written by the 
cardholder.
I appreciate Mr T feels he and his wife have lost a lot of money and they should  be able to 
claim under his card protection policy. But St Andrews was allowed to decide what cover it 
offered. It had terms and conditions for the cover and these needed to be satisfied for a 
claim to be successfully made. In the circumstances here, Im not persuaded St Andrews 
did anything wrong  when it said Mr Ts claim couldnt be considered under the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6158856