K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK plc wont refund a number  of card payments made for 
online purchases in February 2018.  There were eight transactions  to a total value of nearly  
£2,400.  
background
Mr N has said that he has a number  of devices  including at least  two phones and a 
computer  and that he uses them for online transactions. He generally  keeps them  locked 
when he isnt using  them, and theyre password-protected. He lives in a shared  house, but 
nobody has his security  details. 
Santander didnt  accept that Mr N knew nothing about the transactions  which he says he 
didnt make. It said:
The devices  used  to make the transactions were devices that had been  used for 
transactions that werent  disputed. 
Genuine transactions were  made  between  the disputed ones. Mr Ns online banking  
had been accessed  during the period  of the disputed transactions.  
On at least  one occasion, goods were delivered  at his address and signed  for using his 
name.
A one-time passcode was sent to his phone to confirm one of the transactions. 
Mr N complained to this service, and one of our investigators considered his complaint. He 
thought however that it was most likely that Mr N had carried out the transactions himself. Mr 
N didnt agree and asked  that an ombudsman review the case.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons. Indeed, I have  little to add to his 
reasoning.
The bank noted that someone  has accessed  Mr Ns account online while the transactions  
were taking place. He acknowledged that he had done that, but said he hadnt noticed the 
disputed payments. Im afraid though I think it unlikely that he didnt notice money leaving his 
account over a five-day period,  especially  since he checked his account  almost daily.  Mr N 
hasnt explained  what it was he was checking,  if not transactions on the account. 
At least  one item was delivered to Mr Ns address; the merchant confirmed that and that it 
had Mr Ns contact details. 
On occasions  someone   most likely Mr N  accessed his account online  shortly  before a 
disputed transaction  using  the same device.  In my view its unlikely that the transactions 
were made by someone else who had obtained  the device in the meantime. 
Ref: DRN64359572Finally, the bank has provided  evidence that Mr N was sent a passcode (to his phone) to 
verify at least one transaction. If this had not been  Mr N, I would have expected him to 
contact the bank on receipt  of the message  as it invited  him to do. 
In the circumstances, I dont believe it would be fair to require Santander to refund the 
disputed payments. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK plc to take any further action  to resolve 
Mr Ns complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr N to accept  or reject  my decision before  9 November  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6435957