K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr M took out with a loan in 2001. Its been agreed that 
FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint because I dont think FICL gave Mr M 
clear enough  information  about  the limitations and exclusions of the PPI policy.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any medical condition which Mr M knew about at 
the start of the policy. And I havent  seen clear  evidence that Mr M was made  sufficiently 
aware of this term during the sale.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr M because hes told us that he was diagnosed with a 
medical condition  a number of years  before the sale.
FICL has said that, as Mr M said he didnt  have any time off work as a result of his medical  
condition, its likely  the condition was manageable and wouldnt have affected his decision to 
take the policy. But just because Mr M hadnt had any time off work as a result of his 
condition at the time of the sale, doesnt  mean  that he wouldnt have  been  concerned  that he 
could have time off as a result of it in the future.
As a result of the type of condition Mr M had, I think its possible it could have returned at a 
later date. And I think there could have been potentially  serious  complications  resulting from 
it. So I think Mr M wouldve wanted any claims resulting  from his medical  condition  to be 
covered by the policy. And I dont think he wouldve taken the policy if it had been  made  
clear to him that they wouldnt  be. So I think hes lost out as a result of FICL not making this 
exclusion clear to him.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
Pay Mr M the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI
Ref: DRN60697162Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6069716