K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mr P says Barclays  Bank  UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P responded and raised  some  new points 
which hadnt been considered before.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that while I agreed with the outcome our 
adjudicator had reached, Id done  so for different reasons in light of the new points Mr P had 
raised. 
Barclays responded to say that it agreed with my provisional decision and Mr P hasnt 
responded  so Ive finalised my decision as it stood  below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr P, so Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Mr P applied for his credit card through the post,  and Barclays has been  able to provide a 
copy of his application. Its not the best copy  - but this is understandable given  how long ago 
the sale took place, and Im still able to see the information on it.
I can see that on the application, the PPI is presented  as an optional  product, and theres  a 
tick selecting the policy. Mr P has also signed  the application.
Mr P has also seen  a copy of his application  he says that the tick isnt clear,  and that the 
ticks are not in his writing  style. He feels they couldve been added  without his consent  and 
he wasnt aware that he had PPI. Mr P also says that he had to take time off work in late 
2003 due to an accident, but didnt make  a claim as he didnt know  he had the policy. 
Ive thought about what Mr P has said carefully,  and Ive also considered the wider  
circumstances around the sale. But for me to accept that someone else added the PPI to his 
account, Id have to find it likely that someone  added the ticks to his application after hed 
posted it back to Barclays  and that Mr P hadnt  noticed the PPI premiums being charged  on 
his statements before the policy was cancelled in 2004. While I accept this is possible, I 
dont think its likely.  And although I dont know why Mr P didnt make  a claim on the PPI 
when he was off work,  I dont think this necessarily means that he didnt know about  the PPI.
So on balance, I think Barclays most likely  made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  but I can understand Mr P not remembering this as it was 
so long ago.
Ref: DRN67093252Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr P got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But as I think its likely Mr P chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it could have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Mr P has also told us that he had a generous  sick pay allowance when the PPI was taken 
out, and that he had savings which were held in an account that closed down some years  
ago. But the PPI couldve paid out on top of the sick pay he had, and protected his savings 
for other expenses he may have had - I can see for example that Mr P has told us he used 
his savings in order to buy his first property. And as I think its most likely that Mr P took out 
the PPI himself, he wouldve done  so knowing what other means he already had in place.
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Mr P has said, but these points dont  change  my 
decision. And for the reasons set out above,  I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6709325