K820x#14Complaint
Mr V complains about the delays caused by HSBC UK Bank  Plc in reversing a balance  
transfer on his credit  card.
Background
Mr V had a credit  card with HSBC and another provider Ill call B. In November 2018,  he 
requested a balance transfer of around  £2,000  from his card with B to HSBC, but when the 
transfer didnt  happen as expected Mr V called HSBC. HSBC  explained Mr V had input the 
wrong card number when  hed requested  the transfer. This meant the transfer from B didnt 
take place, but the balance on Mr Vs credit  card still increased  by the requested  transfer 
amount. HSBC agreed to cover Mr Vs monthly payment to B and reverse the balance 
transfer. Mr V was unhappy  with the time it took HSBC to refund  the transfer. He said he 
needed to pay a higher interest payment of £110  to B, so he wanted £300 in compensation. 
HSBC upheld the complaint. They apologised for the delay in reversing the balance transfer 
but didnt think  £300 was fair to resolve the complaint. They  explained they had already 
covered Mr Vs previous monthly  payment  to B for around £53 as a gesture of goodwill. And 
theyd also credited his account with a further  £110 to cover  the interest payment he said 
hed needed  to make.
Mr V didnt agree. He felt HSBC hadnt treated him fairly with the compensation theyd 
offered, and he now felt they should  refund half the cost of his outstanding balance on his 
credit card with B. So he asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged  HSBC 
couldve told Mr V hed made a mistake  sooner and that they had also delayed  processing 
the refund.  But he said HSBC had paid Mr V around  £53 as gesture of goodwill and a further  
£110 to cover the additional interest Mr V had incurred and for the trouble and upset  hed 
suffered. So he thought  HSBC had done  enough to put things right. Mr V didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. So the case  has been  passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
Theres no dispute that HSBC made mistakes in this case. They  couldve  told Mr V hed 
input the wrong  account number when he tried to make the balance transfer, and they 
delayed the balance transfer  refund by around a month. And Mr V says hes suffered 
inconvenience because  of this. But HSBC have apologised to Mr V for their errors, and 
theyve refunded him the minimum payment required  for his HSBC credit  card,  and a further  
£110 towards the additional interest he incurred on his account with B and the trouble and 
upset caused  by the delay. Its not for me to punish or fine a business for making a mistake, 
and taking into account all the circumstances I think the compensation offered by HSBC is 
fair. 
I recognise this has been a stressful  time for Mr V, and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
carefully read all the information hes provided.  I understand  why Mr V feels strongly about 
Ref: DRN62409782what happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for, but I think  HSBC  
have acted reasonably towards him. So I wont be asking them  to do anything  more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6240978