K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy for a mortgage  in 2003. Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr C in case  he was 
off work sick or lost his job. It was part of an insurance package called a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan, or TMPP for short.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Having done that, I have  not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C applied for their mortgage  through an intermediary.  According  to the 
intermediarys records,  it offered them the choice to take or turn down PPI. At that point  they 
chose not to take it, and their mortgage application went ahead. Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  
offer only said PPI was something for them  to consider, and that Bank of Scotland  could 
provide details of the insurance  if theyd  like. The PPI was not a condition of their mortgage. 
Bank of Scotland dont still have a record of the PPI application because  of all the time thats 
passed. But from what Ive seen of their sales  process  from the time, the PPIs cost wouldve 
been set out separately to the cost of the mortgage   it wasnt part and parcel  of the lending. 
And Mr and Mrs C wouldve only got the policy if they actively chose it. Overall, I think  its 
most likely that Bank of Scotland made  Mr and Mrs C aware they had a choice about buying  
the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr C, so it had to check it was right for him. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think it was. For example, it looks  
like Mr C was eligible  for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main  exclusions or 
limitations. The PPI wouldve covered  him for longer than his sick pay wouldve lasted. And 
he doesnt seem to have  had any other cover in case  he lost his job. Its worth  bearing in 
mind that if Mr and Mrs C had fallen behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. 
So the PPI couldve  been useful for them in protecting their home.
Ref: DRN61344802Its possible that the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs C about  PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely  
to have changed their minds. But as I said above,  it seems Mr C wasnt  affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve  really been useful for Mr and Mrs C in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr and Mrs C could  
cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6134480