K820x#14complaint
Its been  agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer,  should accept  
responsibility for the complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to AXA France IARD as 
the seller in my decision.
Mrs S says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out alongside a store card in 1998,  it was sold 
in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. Mrs S said, in summary, that she didnt 
complete the application form for the store card and she didnt actively tick the box to 
select PPI. She said she didnt dispute it was her signature on the application form, but 
she was just told to sign it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, I have to make a decision 
on what I think is most likely to have happened   based on whats available.  This policy  
was sold around  20 years ago. Mrs S says she wasnt given information about the PPI.
AXA France  IARD had to make Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent 
before adding PPI. I dont  know what was said at the time the policy was sold, but AXA 
France IARD has provided a copy of Mrs Ss store card application form. Ive also taken 
into account what Mrs Ss said she remembers from the time of sale.  
The form had a separate section for PPI and the option to take PPI was selected with a 
tick. Mrs Ss signed the application form. Mrs S said she was just told to sign the form.
I can see there are some pen mark  crosses on the store  card application. These are 
alongside the sections where a date of birth,  postcode and telephone number had to be 
inserted. I think Mrs S was probably asked to insert this information herself, or at least 
provide the store representative with this information to put on the form . 
Mrs S accepts she signed this form, an important  financial document. I think it wouldve 
been reasonable to expect her to take the time she needed to read over the form before 
she signed it. The paperwork made  it clear  that PPI was optional. The form wasnt overly  
long, so I think it wouldve  been possible for her to do this whilst in the store. I cant  fairly 
say therefore  that AXA France IARD didnt make it clear to Mrs S that PPI was optional. 
There was a tick placed on the form selecting PPI, so I think  it likely that PPI was added 
because Mrs S said she wanted it at the time.  
Ref: DRN67725012AXA France  IARD didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs S got clear information so she could make 
and informed choice  and decide if it was right for her. Its possible the information  AXA 
France IARD gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  Mrs S has told 
us she wouldve got not less than 3 months  worth of sick pay from her employer and she 
also had around  3 months  worth of pay in savings.  If she was unable to work, the  PPI 
would have paid on top of Mrs Ss sick pay and likely  for longer than her work benefits  
wouldve paid out for. It wouldve also covered her if she was made  unemployed. 
Mrs S said her husband couldve helped with her repayments. I accept her husband may 
have wanted to, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time comes, so 
I havent placed much reliance on this. Overall, I still think the PPI could  have been  useful  
to her.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  As she couldve 
benefitted from everything the policy  offered,  I dont think having better information about  
these things wouldve  affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable and she couldve cancelled it at any time.  I cant see that Mrs S has lost out 
because of anything that AXA France  IARD did wrong, so I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6772501