K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) has refused to raise a Section  75 claim 
on his behalf.
background
Mr B says hotel accommodation he bought as part of a holiday, using his Aqua card, was 
misrepresented to him on the phone. He says he booked a double room  with a garden view 
and late check-out was to be included. Mr B says that when he got there the room was a 
twin, with no garden view and he had to pay extra for the late check-out, plus Wifi which hed 
been assured  was free.
Mr B says he wanted Aqua to raise  a Section 75 claim  but, instead  it used Mastercards  
dispute process. Despite  initially  returning  the money to his credit card in July 2018,  Mr B 
says Aqua then re-charged him in September 2018 causing him to exceed his credit  limit 
and incurring charges.
Mr B wants  Aqua  to process the dispute  as a Section 75 claim, to refund all charges as a 
result of exceeding his credit limit and to remove associated adverse information  from his 
credit file. Mr B adds that Aqua was continually harassing him about  paying the additional  
charges.
Aqua says the holiday company sent it documents that showed Mr B had booked  a Twin 
Room Garden View  with a request of a double  room. It added that the terms say that 
special requests cannot be guaranteed and it had received confirmation from the holiday 
company that Mr B had accepted £60 as compensation.
Aqua adds that when it was found that Mr B was liable for the transaction, it changed the 
claim to a Section  75 claim  to see if it could further  assist Mr B. However, it says it could not 
establish a breach of contract and rejected the claim. Aqua offered £20 for delays in 
responding to his complaint but said it could not refund any charges or amend Mr Bs credit  
file.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Although  she 
acknowledged the service provided  didnt meet Mr Bs expectations, she said there  was 
nothing to suggest there had been a breach  of contract.  So she didnt find Aqua had made a 
mistake when it re-applied the charge and found  the compensation Mr B had already 
received from both the holiday company  and Aqua  was fair and reasonable.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that the holiday was misrepresented  in order  to secure 
his business and, therefore, he is covered by Section 75.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64130822Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what  I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Mr B booked a seven-day holiday to Greece in June  2018. He says he was told during the 
booking call that:
Hed booked a double  room with a garden view;
Late check-out was included;
Wi-Fi was free;
There would be a welcome basket of champagne and fruit.
Mr B says that when  he arrived his room was a twin room with a less than appealing view of 
a field and there was no welcome basket. He says he had to pay an additional 35 Euros  for 
the Wi-Fi and late check-out.
Mr B says he first complained to the holiday company whilst he was still away  and was able 
to listen to his initial  booking call. He says the call confirmed that the accommodation had 
been misrepresented  and therefore he was entitled to a successful Section 75 claim.
Unfortunately, there have  been delays contacting the holiday company due to the current  
circumstances, and it has not been  able to provide a copy  of the call, but I have considered  
all the other  available evidence to decide what would be a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint.
I have seen Aquas  customer  notes  in relation to this complaint  and I can see Mr B called to 
raise the dispute  on 11 July 2018. When Aqua contacted Mr B to clarify  the issues, the notes  
say Mr B said hed received the service he booked  but not the extras  for which  he says hed 
paid additional  money. However, he added that the invoice hed received did not break  down 
the individual items.
In an email to Mr B on 20 August 2018,  the holiday company says it had reviewed the calls 
and confirmed a standard  room had been booked with a request for a double. It clarified that 
special requests cannot be guaranteed but offered £60 as compensation for the delay in 
responding and to maintain its relationship with Mr B. Mr B responded the next day to say he 
appreciate[d] the offer and to query  how the refund would be paid.
I have also seen the booking confirmation  and the accommodation voucher, both of which 
say a twin room had been booked,  although it is noted that a double  room and late check-out 
had been requested. The accommodation voucher goes on to say that late check-out is at 
the hotels discretion and charges should be paid directly to the hotel.
So, although  I can see Aqua raised a Section 75 claim, on the balance of evidence,  I find it 
more likely than not that there was no breach of contract and it was right that the claim was 
declined. I acknowledge  Mr B feels hed paid twice for Wi-Fi and late check-out, but Im 
satisfied the compensation was sufficient for the missing extras and his additional costs.
In summary,  in all the circumstances  of the complaint, I cant conclude  that Aqua did 
anything wrong  and I find the refunds  received by Mr B were fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN64130823my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6413082