K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complained  to us that Skipton  Building Society  (Skipton)  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance policy in October  2000. They  took the PPI out to go with a 
mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage was arranged  by a third party, Business A. 
On their mortgage application form,  Mr and Mrs O selected home and contents insurance 
and said they didnt want to take PPI. By choosing to take out either home and contents 
insurance or PPI, Mr and Mrs O were  meeting  one of the requirements  of this particular 
mortgage.  
The mortgage offer, however, showed  Mr and Mrs O as having taken out PPI instead  of 
home and contents  insurance. 
Skipton said Business A had sold Mr and Mrs O the PPI. 
Business A, on the other hand, said it hadnt sold Mr and Mrs O the policy. It also said that 
the PPI policy  sold by Skipton wasnt one it sold at the time. 
Skipton also told us it thought that Business A had contacted the insurer to arrange for the 
home and contents  cover  to be switched to PPI cover. 
In my first provisional decision, dated 21 February 2019, I explained why I considered that 
Skipton Building  Society was likely to be responsible for the sale of the PPI. My main points 
were as follows:
From  what Id seen it looked as if Mr and Mrs O hadnt selected PPI on their initial 
mortgage application but had done so later.
I hadnt see enough evidence to make  me think that Business A had continued to be 
involved in the application process  so that I could  make  a finding  that it was responsible  
for the sale of the PPI. 
I had noted  that Business A had sold Mr and Mrs O its own PPI product, which  had later 
been cancelled.  
Skipton then sent me paperwork which I hadnt  seen before, showing that the representative 
from Business A had been involved in the further  mortgage offers  that were made to 
Mr and Mrs O. 
Having taken new information into account,  I prepared a second provisional  decision, dated 
21 March 2019,  making  a provisional finding that Skipton was not responsible  for the sale of 
PPI to Mr and Mrs O. 
The key reason for  changing my previous finding was that, based on the new information  
that Skipton  had provided, I now considered it likely that the representative  from Business  A 
had continued  to be involved in the application  process and various mortgage offers that 
were made. I went on to provisionally  conclude:
Ref: DRN61839682But now, having  seen the two pieces of evidence provided to me by Skipton, I think the 
balance of evidence  has shifted such that it now looks to me more  likely than not that, given 
that Business  As representative continued  to be involved  with the further  offers that were 
issued, he was also responsible for the sale of the PPI. 
I have previously noted that Business  As representatives at the time were only supposed to 
sell PPI administered by one particular Business. And Ive seen that Mr and Mrs O had taken 
out a policy  provided  by Business A only to cancel it later on. But given that Im currently 
satisfied that the introducer had greater involvement  with the mortgage application process 
than had previously  appeared,  I am revising  my view and currently  consider that Skipton isnt 
responsible for the sale of the PPI. 
And so it follows that I dont currently intend to hold Skipton responsible for looking into 
Mr and Mrs Os complaint  about  the mis-sale  of PPI.
developments
   
Skipton confirmed it had received my second provisional decision but didnt have anything 
further to add.
Mr and Mrs O also confirmed receiving my second  provisional decision. They queried 
whether they had home insurance  at all, given that home insurance had never been set up 
for them by Skipton. They also told us how Skipton had added PPI in error when theyd 
taken out a later mortgage. 
I dont consider that these points have any real bearing on Mr and Mrs Os current complaint 
given that I am seeking to establish  who sold them  this policy.  But in any event  one of our 
consultants has responded to them in separate correspondence setting out my comments.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that Skipton isnt responsible for the sale of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O. 
Ideally, I would have  liked to see more detailed evidence or information,  such as further  
correspondence that might have gone  with the making and amending of the various 
mortgage offers. That might have helped to fill in the detail to explain how Mr and Mrs Os 
choice of insurance was changed from buildings and contents insurance on their mortgage  
application to the PPI cover that was included in the mortgage offer they eventually took. But 
given that such  information is no longer available after so many  years  which is not unusual 
 I must make my final decision based  on the evidence and information that is still available. 
The additional paperwork  recently sent to me by Skipton is sufficient to establish that the 
representative from Business A continued to be involved in the mortgage application process 
as it went through  several revised offers.  I therefore  think its likely that the representative  
was involved in the PPI being added to the mortgage. And I think  thats enough to show that 
Business A is responsible for the sale of the policy. 
It follows that I remain satisfied that its more  likely  than not that Skipton Building  Society  is 
not responsible  for the sale of the PPI and so cannot be held responsible for any potential  
mis-sale of the cover. 
Ref: DRN61839683I appreciate that my finding  will be frustrating for Mr and Mrs O. I would like to reassure them 
that I have  carefully  considered all the evidence  and information theyve provided  at all 
stages of their complaint  in reaching  my decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Skipton Building  Society is not responsible  for the sale of PPI to 
Mr and Mrs O and that the policy was therefore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Michael Goldberg 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6183968