K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs S hold with TSB Bank plc. Mr and Mrs S are 
dissatisfied with a number of things,  but this particular complaint is about  how TSB handled 
a request for consent  to a second charge being registered against  their property as security  
for a consolidation loan. Mr and Mrs S say TSBs poor handling and tardiness meant  the 
loan didnt go ahead, leaving them unable to repay their various unsecured creditors.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the amounts involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr W when  my decision is 
published.
In the autumn of 2018, Mr and Mrs S asked a broker Ill call F to source them  a secured loan 
to repay  some unsecured consumer debt. This required TSB, as holders of a first charge 
over Mr and Mrs S home  in respect  of the mortgage, to consent to a second charge being  
registered by the provider  of the consolidation loan.  TSB didnt handle  the request  very 
smoothly or promptly, and as a result of the delay, the loan didnt proceed. Instead,  
Mr and Mrs S contacted a debt charity which negotiated reduced payment arrangements 
with their various creditors. They complained to us about this in December 2018.
In the background to this, and around the same time, TSB had written  to tell Mr and Mrs S 
that one part of their mortgage was going to reach  its expiry date in March  2019. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were given  understand that this would be a relatively straightforward 
period, but its proved to be anything  but. TSB told them theyd need to go through a full 
review of their entire mortgage arrangements and financial  circumstances.  Attempts to set 
up a meeting or a telephone discussion have proved fruitless,  and as I understand it, the 
expiry date has now passed without a formal  decision on an extension  having yet been  
made.
Our investigator has tried to facilitate the necessary  discussions  about  a possible term 
extension. Hes also passed on to TSB a separate complaint about how the mortgage was 
set up originally (which was around  2004).  His consideration of the merits of the complaint 
has been confined  to the issue with the second charge request. He agreed that TSB had 
mis-handled the request,  and by doing so, he thought the business had held things up for 
about a month.  He recommended  TSB reimburse Mr and Mrs S the interest theyd been 
charged by their creditors in that period (he assessed this at £446.91) and pay them £150  
compensation for their time and trouble.
TSB agreed  to settle the complaint on that basis; Mr and Mrs S were  happy with the award 
of interest,  but thought the compensation should  be higher. They pointed out that TSB had 
paid them £450 previously for a problem with access to their bank  and credit  card accounts. 
Ref: DRN61065922Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was referred  for review by an ombudsman; unfortunately, thats 
taken a long time to happen, resulting in a complaint from them about the service weve 
provided to them. Thats been dealt with, entirely separately from my review of the 
underlying complaint against TSB.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us. 
The situation  with the term extension has been ongoing and developing whilst this complaint 
has been with us, so its not something that I can address the merits of in this decision. Ill 
just say in general  terms that the regulator now imposes strict regulations on how lenders 
deal with requests  to extend the term of interest-only  mortgages  reaching expiry. 
Its not the formality  that Mr and Mrs S might  have thought it would be. That said,  if they 
wanted to make a separate complaint about the term extension,  we could - subject  to our 
usual time limits having been met - consider whether TSB had treated them  fairly within the 
provisions of those afore-mentioned regulations.
Mr and Mrs S could  also refer to us a separate complaint about the sale of the mortgage  in 
2004, if they werent happy with TSBs response  to that. But I would say again that if that 
complaint came to us, wed first have to decide if it fell within the time limits in our rules.  
Getting back to the matter  in front of me now, Ive considered all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
I dont have to decide  if TSBs handling  of the second charge consent fell short of expected 
standards. Thats now generally accepted, and all parties agree that one months 
reimbursement of interest  charged  by creditors represents fair redress for financial loss. 
What remains in dispute and what I must decide,  is the level of compensation for the time 
and trouble Mr and Mrs S have been  put to over the matter.
Its tempting to look at how long it has taken to get to this conclusion  approximately a year 
 and attribute  all of the stress  and worry Mr and Mrs S have encountered in that time, to 
TSBs mis-handling of the second charge request. But it would be wrong to do that, and 
certainly not fair to both parties, as my impartial  role requires  me to be.
Firstly, much of the time that has passed  is down to how long Mr and Mrs S have had to wait 
for an outcome to their complaint, and thats not down to any failing on TSBs part. It agreed 
promptly to settle the complaint as recommended by our investigator. The time that has 
passed since then has been whilst the case has been in queue to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, and Mr and Mrs S have already accepted our offer of compensation for that.
Ref: DRN61065923Its also important to keep  in mind that, even if nothing at all had gone wrong (or been 
delayed) with the second charge request,  it cant  just be assumed Mr and Mrs S would  
definitely have  been accepted for a consolidation loan. I say that not least  because the 
evidence we have  from F from that time suggest  its far from a certainty that a loan would 
definitely have  been made. Its just as likely that, but for the delay on TSBs part, 
Mr and Mrs S would simply have started the same debt management  process theyre in now 
albeit a month earlier. 
Im aware the reason  Mr and Mrs S feel £150  is too low is partly  down to TSB having paid 
them three times that amount  for an earlier complaint. But we dont assess  compensation for 
a complaint by reference to what a business  agreed to pay in respect of another complaint. 
We assess compensation on the specifics  of the individual case, and here, taking everything 
into account thats relevant to the second charge request, I find £150 to be fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint be settled in full by TSB Bank plc paying  
Mr and Mrs S the following:
£446.91 for extra interest charged  by creditors; and
£150.00 compensation. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means 
Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6106592