K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Phoenix Life Limited  sold her two unsuitable savings plans  in 1988.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 28 November  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Phoenix said it had no comments  to make on this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision I am satisfied this complaint should be upheld with the compensation as described.
I instruct Phoenix Life Limited to calculate  what return Mrs C would have earned on her 
monthly payments  by the surrender point of these plans if she had kept these sums in 
secure interest-bearing accounts. To do this it should use this services no-risk  formula:  the 
Bank of Englands  bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity.
If this comparison shows she made a loss, it should pay this and add 8% simple interest 
per annum  to this loss figure from the dates of maturity  of each plan to the date of 
settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Phoenix  Life Limited to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66516422provisional decision
complaint
Mrs C complains that Phoenix Life Limited  sold her two unsuitable savings  plans in 1988.
background
At the time of advice Mrs C was 17 and employed on a modest salary. She agreed to take out two 
10-year savings plans,  paying £50 a month on each; these included  life cover.
Mrs C said the advisor came to her parents house and sold the whole  family a variety  of products, 
which they didnt fully understand.  She said she knew nothing  about  investments, her attitude to risk 
wasnt discussed,  she had no need for the life cover and the advisor failed to explain  how the plans 
worked, including the impact  of charges.
An investigator at this service didnt feel there was enough evidence to uphold the complaint.  Mrs C 
did not agree and elaborated  on her original  concerns.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view there is a simple  and compelling  reason why these recommendations were  not a good fit; 
the regulatory requirement of the time.  I will therefore restrict  my comments to explaining  why. If 
Phoenix raises other issues in response to this provisional decision, I will consider them at that stage.
These plans,  like other medium/long-term savings  plans, needed to be retained for the recommended 
time period  (or close to it) to be cost-effective ways of saving. This is because  the charges - 
reductions in yield - were  spread  across the invested timespan. So, if one stopping  paying  into the 
plans or surrendered them  early one would be heavily  penalised through  the effective deduction of 
charges for the whole period.
Given Mrs C was just 17 at the time it was extremely unlikely she would have been in a position to 
know whether  she would be able to afford (or want) to keep paying £50/£100  a month for the next 10 
years during a time when her circumstances,  finances  and objectives were almost certain to change.
It appears that she was able to afford to keep paying into the plans although  at the cost of having  to 
borrow for other commitments but this still does not mean this was acceptable advice at the time.  
She also says that she only retained  the plans because of the projected financial benefits in doing 
so and would have preferred to use this money as a down- payment on a property.
In my view,  she was not in a position to make such a commitment  and should have been advised 
to keep her money  in a flexible account where  she could stop payments and/or make withdrawals 
without any penalty.
I therefore  intend  to instruct Phoenix Life Limited  to calculate what return Mrs C would have earned 
on her monthly payments  by the surrender  point  of these plans if she had kept these  sums in secure 
interest-bearing accounts. To do this it should use this services no-risk formula: the Bank of 
Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity.
If this comparison shows she made a loss, it should  pay this and add 8% simple interest  per annum  
to this loss figure from the dates of maturity to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Ref: DRN66516423my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Phoenix to pay compensation  as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6651642