K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to 
Mr B. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  Lloyds sold Mr B the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr B and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Lloyds made  Mr B aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it 
 although I can understand  if he can no longer remember  this. I can see that the 
application form, which  Mr B signed,  required you to tick a box to say if you wanted  
PPI. I can see the box has been  ticked. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped pay 
the credit  card bill for a period longer  than Mr Bs limited employment  sick pay 
entitlement, and it seems  he didnt have savings to fall back on. And it would  have 
paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr B more 
financially secure for longer. So, overall,  the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the 
recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Lloyds  gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But I dont think, in his circumstances, full information about  costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN65533262my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6553326