K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  against Financial Administration  Services Limited (Fidelity) is about the 
service fees hes been charged.
background
Mr W had a longstanding  relationship with Fidelity.  In January  2019 Mr W complained to 
Fidelity about the service  fees theyd deducted from his account.  
In response, Fidelity  said theyd been charging a service fee of 0.35% and directed Mr W to 
the terms and conditions of his account for more information. They  said they were unable to 
amend the charge.
Mr W brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He said he hadnt  been getting value 
for money  since about January  2016. Mr W also thought  Fidelity  should have told him he 
could get cheaper  fees elsewhere.      
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint. She didnt think  Fidelity had done anything  
wrong. Mr W disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether Mr W was given clear information about the service  fee hed be 
charged.
Fidelity have said the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account  gave information about the 
service fee. Theyve  also provided copies of letters they sent Mr W in 2015  when their 
charging structure changed.
In October  2015 Fidelity  wrote to Mr W to say that from November the service fee would be 
0.35% of the value of his investments, or 0.2%  for investments worth more  than £250,000.   
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Fidelity  provided  Mr W with clear information  about the 
service fee hed be charged.
Mr W says hes now moved his investments  to another provider who charges a flat rate fee. 
He says Fidelity should have told him he might be able to get better value elsewhere. 
But Fidelity  werent providing investment advice to Mr W. Their  responsibility was to give him 
clear information about the fees hed be charged for administering his account. 
As Ive said,  I think Fidelity did that. And Ive also seen  a letter that Fidelity  sent Mr W in 
July 2015 about the changes to their charging structure. The question  and answer  document  
that was enclosed said that if account holders were unhappy with the new charges it would 
be possible  to transfer to another platform or investment company.
It may be that Mr W could have found  another investment platform  that charged  lower fees. 
But that would have been a matter for him. I cant say fairly say that Fidelity should have 
done anything  more.
Ref: DRN68146582I realise this wont be the outcome Mr W was hoping for, but I cant see that Fidelity have 
done anything  wrong. I wont therefore be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint 
against Financial  Administration Services Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6814658