K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited cancelled  his motor  insurance policy  
wrongly and without giving him due notice after a disputed traffic incident.
background
Mr R told us that after an incident with another driver in February 2018 his broker  - on behalf 
of Calpe - asked him for information, including details of the incident. He said he provided 
the information on 20 February  2018. He heard nothing further until he got a letter  from the 
broker on 29 March 2018 (dated 23 March  2018) to say his policy would end the next day. 
On the same  day, Mr R sent an email to the broker querying the cancellation. He then spoke 
to one of its advisors  (K).  He said she wasnt helpful. He spoke to one of Calpes managers 
(L) on 3 April 2018. She said the policy was still in force, but that Calpe needed more 
details from Mr R. She said shed get an investigator to take a statement from him. But on 
Monday 9 April 2018 he was stopped by the police for driving  without insurance. 
Mr R called L immediately. She told him the policy was cancelled on 5 April 2018,  after hed 
spoken to her, because Mr R hadnt  co-operated  with the claims handler,  K. She said the 
policy couldnt be reinstated. Mr R was later convicted for driving  without insurance.
Calpe said it hadnt  received any of the details it had asked Mr R for in February 2018 except 
an accident report form. It said he hadnt  co-operated with its engineer  or its investigator. It 
said the broker had said the policy would be cancelled on 30 March  2018. But when Mr R 
spoke to L, she noted  the policy was still in force. Calpe was able to show  that the broker  
issued a letter on 5 April 2018 telling Mr R the policy had been cancelled that day. Calpe 
said that meant he knew about the cancellation before he was stopped  by the police. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Calpe to cancel the policy,  as Mr R couldnt 
show that hed given it all it needed to validate  the policy (including the V5 registration  
document). He accepted  that on 23 March 2018  the broker had sent a seven-day notice of 
cancellation to Mr R. But as Mr R was told on 3 April 2018  that the policy  was still valid - and 
wouldnt be cancelled if he co-operated  - the investigator thought another  seven-day notice 
of cancellation  should have been  issued. He didnt think the letter sent on 5 April 2018  was 
enough. Mr R said he didnt get it anyway. The investigator upheld the complaint in part.  
The investigator noted that Mr R had six penalty  points on his licence and said hed lost two 
days work due to having his car seized.  Mr R said he had no access to his car for 10 days  
and had to pay for four taxis a day, plus an expensive insurance  policy  to retrieve  the car. 
The investigator thought Calpe should  pay Mr Rs court fine (£811), the police charge for 
storing and releasing  his car (£300), the taxi-fare Mr R paid after his car was seized  by the 
police (£150) plus £1,000 compensation for trouble and upset.
Calpe said Mr R could have taken  his car out of storage  within five days. And it asked for 
proof of the charges Mr R had paid. Mr R said he thought at least £10,000 compensation 
would be fair, given the losses hed faced, the cost of new insurance  and the level of distress  
caused. The investigator asked him for receipts. He said £10,000 wasnt  in line with the sum 
we thought was fair to compensate for the trouble and upset caused  by the issues  hed 
complained to us about. 
Ref: DRN65385682Mr R provided  a copy of the cars V5 registration document for Calpe but said he wouldnt be 
providing anything  else. He said hed already given Calpe what  it needed. He gave us a 
copy of an email showing that hed sent attachments to the broker with an email on 
20 February 2018. Mr R said he left the car in police  storage for 10 days because he had to 
take a day off work to collect it, and he couldnt  get one until the following week.  He said he 
also struggled to get insurance to do that. Mr R said hed lost any receipts  hed had. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
Mr R believes  that Calpe  had no cause to begin the cancellation process,  as he complied 
with its request for documents from the start. Hes shown that he sent documents to the 
broker by email in February  2018.  And when  he wrote to K on 29 March 2018 to query  the 
cancellation notice,  he did so on the back of the earlier  email.  Unfortunately, it isnt clear 
what the attachments were. And we dont know what happened to them.  The broker and 
Calpe say they didnt even get the V5 registration document  at that point.
For whatever reason,  the seven day notice  of cancellation that was issued by the broker  on 
23 March 2019  didnt take effect.  Mr K was still waiting  for contact from Calpes investigator - 
as promised by L on 5 April 2019  - when he was stopped by the police. I agree with our 
investigator that a further seven day notice of cancellation  should have been sent to Mr K. I 
dont think confirming that the policy had been  cancelled was enough. Mr K said he didnt get 
that letter  sent to him on Thursday, 5 April 2018 - before he was found to be driving without 
insurance just four days later.  Letters can take a few days  to arrive, especially if theyre sent 
just before a weekend.  So I dont  think its surprising if Mr K didnt get the letter in time. 
Mr R had the embarrassment of being stopped  by the police and having to argue with Calpe 
about cover  whilst in the police  car. He was then left at the roadside on his way to work, 
many miles away. He had to pay for a long-distance taxi ride and was then without transport 
for several  days.  He had to find other insurance   which was more expensive  - and pay a fee 
to get the car out of the police  compound. He paid a court fine and has six penalty  points on 
his licence. So I think Mr R was seriously inconvenienced and distressed by what  happened
As I dont think Calpe acted reasonably in failing  to give Mr R sufficient notice of the 
cancellation, I think his complaint should be upheld. I think it would be reasonable for Calpe 
to pay Mr R £500 compensation  for distress  and inconvenience. And Mr R has produced 
evidence of the £811 court fine he had to pay, so I think Calpe should reimburse him for that, 
with interest. Unfortunately he hasnt provided  any other receipts. 
I dont think theres any doubt that Mr K had to pay to have  his car released from the police 
compound. I think the investigator made  a reasonable proposal in asking Calpe to pay the 
standard charge of £150 for that. Mr R says he had to leave the car at the compound  for 10 
days and was charged £20 a day. I dont dispute the daily charge, but I dont think  Mr R has 
shown why he couldnt collect the car sooner. Calpe suggested that five days  was a 
reasonable time, and I think thats  fair.
Theres nothing from Mr R to show that he had to take two full days  off work- one after being 
stopped by the police and the other when collecting his car. So I dont think he can expect to 
be compensated specifically for that. Mr R hasnt provided evidence of the taxi fares  he had 
to pay either.  That applies  not only to the initial journey, but also to journeys to and from 
work. Mr R says he took four taxis a day. He hasnt  explained  why, but in any event,  I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to ask Calpe for pay for taxi fares  without receipts. 
Ref: DRN65385683It may be possible  for Mr R to get a note from the taxi firm to show  what it charged for his 
long journey to work on 9 March 2018. Failing that, the firm may be able to provide a note 
showing the standard charge for the mileage in question that we could then consider. 
Mr R hasnt provided any evidence of the short term policy he bought to retrieve the car or 
the increased premium  hes paying due to the conviction. Undoubtedly  his premium will have 
risen, and the financial impact of the conviction  is likely to last for five years. But its up to 
Mr R to decide whether  to provide  details  of his new premium to us. Hed also have to ask 
his new insurer to say what  he would have paid for the policy  without the conviction. We may 
then be able to require Calpe to compensate him.
 
Im not suggesting that Mr R hasnt run up all of the costs referred to above. But I think it 
would be unreasonable for Calpe to pay for most of them without receipts - or some other 
form of evidence. So the costs I can consider requiring Calpe to pay are limited  at this stage.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Calpe accepted them.  Mr R sent 
us a certificate of motor  insurance hed taken  out with another  insurer  on 13 April 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There are no new comments  from either of the parties to take into account.  Mr R hasnt 
provided any extra evidence of his expenses, despite being  given extra  time to do so. The 
certificate of insurance he provided only shows that he took out insurance on the date stated 
on it. Without evidence  of what he paid, it isnt helpful. 
As I dont have any further information  to consider, I dont think theres any reason  to depart 
from the findings and recommendations set out in my provisional view.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company to do 
the following:
Pay Mr R £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Refund Mr R £811 for the court charge
Refund Mr R £250 for the police compound release charge and five days  storage
Add interest to the two refunds above at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement
If Calpe thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken  off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I must ask Mr R to accept or reject my 
decision by 8 November  2019.
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN65385684
Ref: DRN6538568