K821x#15complaint
Mrs O complains about a car supplied  to her under a hire purchase agreement  with RCI 
Financial Services Limited  (RCI).  
background
Mrs O acquired  a brand new car with a cash  price of £24,726 in January 2018. One of the 
features of the car was an emergency  braking system which  stops the car automatically if an 
object gets too close  to it. Three  weeks  after acquiring the car Mrs O says the brakes  
engaged on their own on two occasions  when she was driving at speed on a clear road with 
no immediate objects  in front of her, causing  the car to stop abruptly.  Her roadside 
assistance provider  (R) attended the car and Mrs O says the patrolman experienced the 
same issue  while road-testing it. 
Mrs O says she was advised by R to take the car back to the dealership from where  it came  
the next day. A patrolman from R followed Mrs Os partner to the dealership the next 
morning. Mrs O says the patrolman saw the car brake suddenly for no apparent reason 
during this journey. 
The dealership looked at the car but was unable to replicate the issue. It found one fault 
code stored  on the cars internal computer when it ran a diagnostic check. It said this related 
to a lane change sensor and was from when the car was in transit mode  a setting the car 
would have been placed in at pre delivery stages. The dealer cleaned and refitted the ABS 
earth wire as a precaution and re-tested the car but found no fault. 
A master technician from the manufacturer also looked at the car but could not replicate the 
issue either. Its report said it found  instances  of pre-fill braking during testing (which  RCI 
says is when the car detects an object and prepares  to brake but is overridden  by manual 
braking or moving the car away from an object and is not a fault)  but no instances of the 
emergency brake activating. 
Mrs O asked to reject  the car after this as she said she didnt feel safe driving it any longer. 
RCI did not accept  the rejection of the car. It said there was no evidence  it was faulty. 
I issued a provisional decision on 4 April 2019 in which I made  the following provisional 
findings:
RCI supplied Mrs O with the car under the finance  agreement it had with her. Under  relevant 
legislation, The Consumer Rights Act 2015, there was an implied term that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. Whats satisfactory  is measured by what a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and other 
relevant circumstances. This includes aspects such as safety and freedom  from minor  
defects. 
The car RCI supplied  to Mrs O was brand new and she paid over £24,000 for it. So I think  
the bar is set high for what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory. 
If proven,  I think the issues Mrs O has described would make her car of unsatisfactory  
quality in the particular circumstances of her complaint as they impact on the safety of the 
car. I do not think a reasonable  person would expect  the automatic safety system on a brand 
new car to be faulty so soon after supply. 
Ref: DRN64351072Whether the fault exists is a decision Ive had to make on the balance  of probabilities, or in 
other words what I think is most likely  given the evidence. 
Mrs O says her car stopped abruptly twice on her way to work, four times  on a road test by 
an R patrolman, and on a further  three occasions  the next day when her partner drove the 
car to the dealership. 
RCI says Rs report and its internal notes  from Mrs Os call out make  no mention of the issue 
at all and all of the other  tests carried out on the car have not been able to replicate it. So it 
questions whether what Mrs O described did happen. 
From what  Ive seen, R completed two breakdown  reports, one on the day Mrs O says she 
experienced the problem  and another the following  morning when it followed her partner to 
the dealership.  
On the first report,  under the heading comments   suspected diagnosis  it says No loss of 
power, only fault found is unlisted, advised to take to dealer. The dealership  has since said 
that its engineer  did not recognise the fault code  recorded by Rs patrolman because  it was 
not in a format  the manufacturers fault codes appear in.  
The second  report, under  the same  heading,  says emergancy (sic) brake  coming on its own. 
Manually turnt (sic) off emergency  brake  and followed  member  to dealer.
Ive thought about what RCI has said. But I think its most likely Mrs O did experience the 
fault she described for a number of reasons: 
-Although one report contains  less detail than the other, there is still a record on the 
second report that the brakes were engaging on their own. 
-It seems  unlikely  R would have agreed to follow Mrs O to the dealership  the day after 
it attended her car if nothing really was wrong with it.
-A representative at the dealership has said one of Rs patrolman confirmed he 
witnessed the problem happen  when he was following Mrs Os partner to the 
dealership. This has not been  disputed. And its consistent with the comments on Rs 
second breakdown report  that the emergency brake was engaging on its own.  
-The dealership  said it is normal for the emergency braking system  to activate where 
the car is driven in traffic. So there  is the possibility that it coming on was part of the 
normal operation  of the car. But the test reports RCI have provided  say there would 
be a record of it engaging in that case. And there isnt. It also seems unlikely Rs 
patrolman would have commented  on seeing the issue  if the brake was simply 
engaging when it should have been.  So, something wasnt  right.  
-There are things  recorded on Rs internal records which arent  reflected in the first 
breakdown report. For example  notes from the following morning say the car was in 
limp mode  on the patrolmans arrival and notes from the day before say that a road 
test was completed. But there is nothing recorded on the first breakdown report 
showing a road test was completed. And the notes  relating  to the day before dont 
show the car was placed in to limp mode. I think its most likely this would have  been  
Ref: DRN64351073done by the patrolman  in the circumstances.  So its possible that not everything 
which happened on the first day was recorded on the breakdown report. 
-When the dealership  carried  out a diagnostic check on the car it showed an error 
relating to a lane change sensor. Although the dealerships notes arent  clear  as to 
what caused this, it still confirms the automated  safety systems or sensors were not 
quite given a clean bill of health when  inspected.  
-Mrs Os testimony  has been plausible, consistent and detailed and is backed up in 
part by the notes made internally by R. I also find it unlikely  Mrs O wouldve gone to 
the trouble of calling  out roadside assistance,  taking the car back  to the dealership,  
not driving the car again since  (despite  continuing to pay for it) and hiring a 
replacement car if she hadnt  experienced the issue shes  described. 
Ive thought about what RCI said about  how the emergency brake couldnt have engaged on 
the journey to the dealership if it had been  manually switched off. But Ive seen enough  
evidence (including  the dealers comments about what Rs patrolman saw) to make  me think  
that the braking system  wasnt  working as it should  have been  on that journey. So even if the 
emergency brake was turned off, this doesnt  look like it fixed whatever the underlying issue 
affecting the car was.   
I recognise the car has been tested since the incident and the fault hasnt been replicated. 
But from the evidence  available I dont think this means Mrs O didnt experience the fault 
shes described when  she says she did. The issue was an intermittent  one which may 
explain why it hasnt  been replicated.  
As Ive already  explained above,  I think this fault meant the car supplied to Mrs O wasnt of 
satisfactory quality  in breach of the implied term in its contract  with her. 
Ive thought about what should happen to put things right.  RCI has had a chance to inspect 
and repair  the car. And it has attempted some rectification  of a fault with the safety systems 
 but it has attributed this to something else and hasnt been  able to diagnose the specific 
braking issue. So, I dont think it would be appropriate to require RCI to repair the car given 
whats already happened  with its attempts  to do this and the inconvenience Mrs O has 
suffered so far. I think the fair thing to do in this case is allow Mrs O to reject to the car.
Mrs O has not driven the car since it was taken to the dealership on 24 February 2018. She 
had driven the car around 550 miles before this. And she was given a courtesy car until      
19 April 2018. So Mrs O had use of the car or was kept mobile for two and a half months 
from the point the agreement  started  on 29 January 2018. RCI should therefore refund all 
but two and a half months worth of payments  her first payment in March  2018, her second  
in April 2018 and half of the payment she made in May 2018. 
Mrs O has recently  hired a car and has asked that RCI pay her the cost of this. But I wont  
be asking RCI to do this. I am already asking RCI to refund the payments Mrs O has made 
under the agreement. So If I asked RCI to pay her the cost of the hire car too, Mrs O would 
have had use of a car without paying  for it. Thats a better position than she would have 
been in if shed been able to use her car. And some  of the cost of the hire includes optional 
extra insurances which Mrs O didnt have  to take. So it wouldnt be fair to ask RCI to meet 
this cost. 
Ref: DRN64351074Mrs O has also asked that RCI pay her insurance  costs for the period shes  not been using 
the car. Because  I think RCI should have accepted her rejection of the car in April 2018, and 
given the reason Mrs O has not used the car since is on the grounds of safety,  I think this is 
reasonable in this case. So I think its fair that RCI pay Mrs Os costs of insuring her car from 
19 April 2018 subject  to her providing evidence of the same. 
I think it would have  been distressing for Mrs O that the car was stopping  on its own when it 
shouldnt have been and shes clearly been  inconvenienced by everything thats happened. I 
think that £250 is fair compensation  for this.
To put things right I said I intended  to tell RCI to:
end Mrs Os agreement;
take back the car at no cost to Mrs O;
refund  Mrs Os deposit plus 8% simple  interest per annum from the date it was paid 
until the date of settlement;
refund  all payments  made from (and including) 4 June 2018 and 50% of the payment 
made on 4 May 2018 plus interest  at 8% simple per annum  from the date each 
payment was made until the date of settlement; 
pay Mrs O the cost of insuring her car from 19 April 2018 subject to her providing  
evidence of those  costs; 
remove all record of the agreement  from Mrs Os credit  file; and
pay Mrs O £250  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she was caused. 
Mrs O agreed  with my provisional  decision.  But she said she also wanted a refund of the 
cost of two insurances  she took out at the time she acquired her car which  she says were  
specific to the car and cannot be carried over to a new vehicle.  
RCI did not agree with my provisional decision. It said, in summary:
R may have followed  Mrs O to the dealership just to provide peace  of mind rather  
than because of any fault that had been identified with the car. 
It questions how a decision  was reached on balance when Rs notes and reports  
conflict each other.   
The lane change  sensor is not linked  to the forward emergency brake sensor.  Any 
suspected issue  relating  to the lane change sensor is not relevant nor related  to the 
forward emergency brake system. 
Its not fair that it should have to refund the cost of Mrs Os insurance  given  her case  
has been with us for so long and some  of the delays were  of Mrs Os own making. 
Ref: DRN64351075my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is fair to say there  is some conflict in the notes and reports made by R. But when viewed in 
the round  (and taking account  of the other reasons I gave in my provisional decision) I still 
think the overall circumstances of the case point to the fact that Mrs O did experience  the 
issues she complained  of. Im further  persuaded by her recent comments to this service 
about the trouble not having the car has put her and her family to. Mrs O clearly felt so 
strongly about the braking  issue that she put herself in a position of great inconvenience by 
not using the car. 
So, I think where Rs report  says the brake was coming on on its own this was most  likely a 
reflection of what Rs patrolman had witnessed.  
RCI says the lane change sensor is not linked to the emergency brake system. It seems 
plausible to me that a problem with this sensor  might be an indication of wider issues with 
the electrical and safety systems. But even  if its not, it wouldnt change  my decision 
because I still think the other evidence shows on balance that the fault occurred. 
Mrs O has provided  evidence  of the cost of two additional insurance policies she bought 
from the dealership.  I think these  are losses that flow from RCIs breach of the implied term 
of its contract with Mrs O and they were taken out specifically  for Mrs Os car. RCI should  
pay Mrs O the cost of the two insurance policies calculated pro rata from 19 April 2018, plus 
any administrative costs for cancelling early, less any refund Mrs O receives from the insurer 
for cancelling  early (if possible). If RCI wants proof of what (if any) refund Mrs O has 
received from the insurers before making this payment it is fair to ask for this. 
Mrs O has confirmed she did not pay a deposit save for some part exchange value from a 
car she traded in. RCI should refund this as opposed to the full deposit  stated on the hire 
purchase agreement   as £1,000 of this was made  up of a dealer/finance company 
contribution. 
All in all, Ive not seen anything that makes me think I should change  the conclusion  I 
reached in my provisional decision  that the car was not of satisfactory quality  at the point  it 
was supplied. So I still think Mrs Os complaint should be upheld.  
I do take RCIs point  about the time that has passed and how this affects  things like the 
insurance costs its being asked  to pay. But it would be unfair not to compensate  Mrs O for 
the losses shes suffered  as a result of whats gone wrong. And I dont think Mrs O has acted 
unreasonably. I can understand why she would want to keep the car insured even while it 
was left with the dealership. 
Ref: DRN64351076my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Os complaint. To put things right                               
RCI Financial  Services  Limited must:
end Mrs Os agreement;
take back the car at no cost to Mrs O;
refund  Mrs Os part exchange allowance of £299 plus 8% simple interest per year 
from the date it was paid until the date of settlement*;
refund  all payments  made from (and including) 4 June 2018 and 50% of the payment 
made on 4 May 2018 plus interest  at 8% simple per year from the date each  payment  
was made until the date of settlement*; 
pay Mrs O the cost of insuring her car from 19 April 2018 until the date of settlement, 
plus any administration fee for early  cancellation,  less any refund received  for early 
cancellation during this period  (subject to evidence);  
pay Mrs O the cost of the two insurance policies purchased  from the dealership, plus 
any administrative costs for cancelling early, less any refunds received from the 
insurer(s) for early  cancellation (subject to evidence).
remove all record of the agreement  from Mrs Os credit  file; and
pay Mrs O £250  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she was caused**. 
*If RCI Financial Services Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs O how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs O a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
**RCI Financial Services Limited  must  pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs O accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6435107