K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with a claim 
under his home emergency policy. He says RSAs engineer caused damage to his water 
cylinder and it should  cover the cost of replacing it.  
RSA appointed contractors to deal with the claim on its behalf.  When  I refer to RSA this 
includes its contractors. 
background
Mr P contacted RSA in March 2018 to make a claim under his home emergency policy for a 
problem with his heating system. RSA told him it would be able to send an engineer to visit 
the property, but one wasnt in fact available at that time. RSA let Mr P know  this late in the 
evening and said Mr P could arrange his own contractor.  It was a Sunday  and Mr P said he 
couldnt arrange a contractor to attend  himself.  RSA offered £250 towards alternative 
accommodation as Mr P was without  heating but he says he couldnt accept it as the family 
has pets which couldnt be left at short notice.  
An RSA engineer did attend  two days later. RSA says he inspected the heating system and 
identified that the zone  valve  kit needed to be replaced. The engineer  says he completed a 
visual inspection only, submitted a quote for the part and told Mr P RSA would be in contact 
to arrange another appointment to complete the repair.  
 
Mr P disputes this and says the engineer worked on the valves for over an hour before 
saying he would need to order a new valve kit and return at a later date.  
A few days  later Mr P contacted RSA for an update and to report  a leak from his water 
cylinder. During the call Mr P said he could see the leak and it was coming from the exact  
point the engineer had been  working on previously.  
Mr P was advised that before RSA could continue with his claim, he would need  to provide 
evidence that the heating  system had been  maintained. Mr P complained that if this was 
necessary it should  have  been requested from the outset. Mr P also asked the adviser  to 
confirm if this was the reason, hed not received an update. The adviser explained RSA had 
tried to call Mr P to request this information  but couldnt get through. Mr P pointed out that 
RSA had two numbers for him so should  have been  able to let him know. 
RSA instructed the engineer to return, but after attending he said he couldnt  replace the 
valve kit as the water  cylinder  was split and heavily  corroded; he drained the system to 
prevent further  damage and told Mr P he would need a new water cylinder. He told Mr P this 
wouldnt be covered  under  the policy as the issue was due to wear  and tear.
Mr P wasnt  happy with this he said the water cylinder wasnt  leaking before he contacted 
RSA and it should cover the cost of replacing  it. 
Mr P arranged for an alternative contractor to attend, which  Ill call D. 
D replaced the valves that RSAs original contractor had identified  as needing to be 
replaced. But after doing so determined the water cylinder was beyond repair  and needed to 
be replaced, which Mr P paid for.  
Ref: DRN64164542Mr P also arranged for a different contractor  who Ill call S to inspect the water cylinder and 
provide a report. Both contractors Mr P employed provided comments  on what they think  
caused the damage which Mr P provided to RSA. 
D said: 
The cylinder was leaking, although  (sic) exact point of leak could not be verified prior to 
removal, by the nature  of a spray foam lagged  cylinder finding  leaks is usually impossible 
when in situ.
Once removed  it appeared that the leak was coming  from one of the two primary coil 
cylinder connections (where coil passes through cylinder) this is something  we would not 
consider repairing.
The exact cause  of the leak is unknown  to us, we do know  that a previous  plumber  had done  
some work on this area of pipe work, I found the connections had been tightened to such a 
point that undoing was almost impossible, this can place undue strain on fittings, especially 
fittings passing through a copper cylinder.  However,  I would not apportion blame,  these are 
just my findings
S said: 
There was no obvious external damage or corrosion to the cylinder or the cylinder  
connections. The cylinder was not new but overall it was in good condition.
After the external examination, the cylinder was beginning to fill with water  for a leak test 
when I noticed  a leak from an area below one of the lower primary connections.
A closer examination  of the area of the leak showed that the cylinder had been split 
underneath one of the primary  coil connection pipes. When  the cylinder was connected to 
the system, the primary  coil connections  are at the rear of the cylinder.
It is my opinion  that the cause of the split was due excessive force being applied to the pipe 
connection. Evidence of this is that the connection has been  bent upwards placing stress on 
the cylinder and causing the split.
The split could not be repaired and therefore  the cylinder should be condemned.
I have no other findings.
RSA responded  to say it didnt think its engineers had damaged Mr Ps water  cylinder  so it 
wouldnt cover  the cost of repair.  But it offered to cover the costs  of the valve  replacements 
which Mr P paid his contractor for. RSA also offered to pay Mr P £100  compensation for the 
shortfalls in service and lack of heating and an additional £250 which  is the limit of what  RSA 
would have paid towards alternative  accommodation  under the policy.  
Unhappy with RSAs  response Mr P brought his complaint to this service. The investigator 
who reviewed Mr Ps complaint said that photos provided by RSA showed the hot water  
cylinder was corroded and its most likely thered been a leak for some time.  So, he didnt  
think RSA needed  to cover the costs of replacing the water cylinder. He acknowledged  that 
RSAs handling  of the matter could have been  better.  But he concluded  RSAs  offer was fair 
compensation for this.
Ref: DRN64164543Mr P didnt accept the assessment he said RSA had damaged  the cylinder and should cover 
the cost of repairs. He said:
RSAs engineer spent  two hours  in his house on a previous visit working less than six 
inches from the cylinder joint shown in the picture.  If there was a leak from this 
cylinder joint, he would  have  expected the plumber to point it out. 
after the engineer said there was a leak in the cylinder, Mr P cleaned off the 
corrosion to check for himself, but he thinks he would see a split in the cylinder if 
there were one and hes provided  pictures  to prove there  was no split.
the time stamped image  from the engineer appears to show  water leaking,  but at that 
time the cylinder  had been drained, and there was no water  in it to leak. And if there  
was a leak when  he arrived, he should have made  Mr P aware sooner not over two 
hours later. 
when D fixed the valves  and switched the heating  back on, he asked him to fill the 
cylinder so he could see if there was a leak. After  a short time, there was a very 
pronounced leak from an area to the rear of the cylinder. Mr P said if this leak was 
present before RSA attended, the house  would have been  flooded,  it was not.
Because Mr P didnt  accept the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
After my initial review of the complaint I tried to get in contact with D and S for further 
clarification of their findings. D didnt  respond but S did, during our conversation  he 
explained he couldnt say for sure when the connections were tightened. But he agreed the 
photos showed there had been  a previous leak and if RSA had overtightened  the 
connection this may have  further highlighted the leak but ultimately Mr P would have 
required a new hot water cylinder  anyway so its unlikely that even if RSAs engineer  did 
make a mistake it would have had any implication on what repair Mr P required.
Because of what I explained to Mr P that I didnt think  there was enough evidence  to 
determine RSA had damaged his water cylinder.  Mr P didnt accept this and arranged  for a 
third inspection to be completed by J. 
J said:
based on what he had seen the split in the cylinder was in a different place to the 
area RSAs engineer  was inspecting/working on. 
a split like the one in Mr Ps cylinder  would likely be noticeable straight  away
changing the zone valve is a normal repair and if it could be demonstrated  that the 
nut and olive were overtightened, he would  think  that could be considered 
negligent. But it couldnt reasonably be concluded the fitting had been 
overtightened unless D had used a torque wrench to confirm  how tight the fitting  
had been tightened  then compared that to the manufacturers guidelines (which 
hadnt happened here).
if J was working on a cylinder  of this age and condition  he would warn his customer  
that theres a high risk the cylinder could split and wouldnt accept liability  for it doing 
so.
if the fitting had been overtightened previously then loosening it could cause the 
cylinder to split.
I wasnt persuaded after speaking with J that I should reach a different conclusion and I 
explained this to Mr P.  Mr P didnt accept my explanation and has requested a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN64164544my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think the complaint  
should be upheld,  Ive explained  why in more detail below. 
did a mistake by RSA mean Mr P had to replace  the cylinder?  
Mr P has said there wasnt a leak from the cylinder  before  RSAs  contractor attended  and 
worked on the boiler. He says the engineer  was working for an extended  period and should  
have noticed if there  was a leak. He also said he would see a split in the cylinder if there 
were one and provided pictures to show there was no split. While RSA has said the 
contractor completed a visual inspection only. 
I think its unlikely RSAs  engineer would have  diagnosed the problem with the valves 
without touching the boiler or the water cylinder.  So, I think its most likely the contactor did 
do some  work even if it was minor.
But Im also satisfied there had been  a previous leak from one of the connections  which had 
occurred over an extended period, as demonstrated  by the build-up of corrosion shown in 
the photos. D explained finding leaks is usually impossible when in situ.  So, I dont think it 
was surprising that neither Mr P nor the engineer spotted an ongoing leak in the original visit. 
Mr P has also confirmed  that hed recently moved into the home so he wouldnt have been 
aware if there had been previous leaks and what had been  done to repair/prevent  them.  
Mr P has also referred to Ss comment that there  was no obvious external damage or 
corrosion to the cylinder or the cylinder  connections, he says this shows there  wasnt  any 
prior issue with the cylinder before RSA attended. But S inspected the cylinder after Mr P 
had cleaned the corrosion off. And both he and S confirmed that the photos show  a build up 
of corrosion due to a priori  leak. 
I havent seen  a timestamp on the video  provided  by RSA so I cant say when it was taken. 
But as Mr P has pointed  out that the cylinder  had been drained at the time he thought  the 
timestamp was for so it couldnt  have shown a leak at that point. The video does clearly 
show a leak which is from a different connection to the one the current reports  say is leaking.  
So, I think the video  was taken at a different time than Mr P thinks  it was and it confirms  
there was a leak.  
Mr P has said that after he was advised  there was a leak, he cleaned off the corrosion to 
check for himself.  RSA and J have  both explained this could make any leaks  more  
pronounced and this follows with what happened when D refilled the water  tank and the leak 
was worse than it had been  originally meaning Mr P had to use a bucket to prevent further 
damage. And also fits with Mr Ps original  explanation to RSA that the leak was coming from 
the area RSAs  contractor  was working on originally.  
I can also see that D made no mention in his report that the connection has been  bent 
upwards placing  stress  on the cylinder  and causing  the split as noted by J. This could  be 
because D hadnt  noticed this and J did, or it could indicate that in attempting  the repair D 
had caused further damage albeit to an already damaged water cylinder. 
Ref: DRN64164545Based on what the experts who have actually inspected the water cylinder have said Im 
satisfied that there is a split in the cylinder, which is in a different area to the connection that 
had a prior leak. But none of the experts  Mr P has arranged to inspect the cylinder have 
been able to say for certain what caused  the split. And they havent agreed  how long it was 
there for. But of the two Ive spoken  to, one has suggested that Mr P was likely to require a 
new cylinder in any event and the other  has said that a split could be caused  without  any 
negligence on the part of RSAs engineer. So, I dont  think theres enough evidence  for me 
to conclude that RSA should be held responsible for the cylinder splitting.
Ive also thought about what  mistake  RSA made if it did indeed  cause  the split. J did say that 
it would  be reasonably foreseeable that the cylinder could split, and it would always warn 
customers that this could be a consequence  of the attempted repair.  While S said that it was 
likely Mr P required a new water  cylinder anyway. So, I think  even if RSA had caused the 
split its mistake was not to let Mr P know that this was a potential consequence of any repair 
it carried out. 
If RSA had told Mr P that it could  attempt the repair but there was a risk he would need to 
replace the water cylinder which wouldnt be covered under the policy  then I think  Mr P 
would have most likely given the go ahead  for repair. I say this because  the alternative 
would have been to call someone else who should have given the same advice or to go 
without the problem being fixed.  So, I think the repair would still have been attempted  and 
Mr P wouldnt be in a different position  to what hes in now. 
So, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to conclude RSA should  be held 
responsible for Mr Ps cylinder  needing to be replaced. 
was the damage  covered under Mr Ps policy?
Ive also thought about whether theres  any other  reason why I should ask RSA to cover the 
cost of Mr Ps replacement cylinder.  RSA has said it wouldnt cover the cost for replacing the 
cylinder because  its not covered under his policy. Its referred to two policy exclusions: 
 Any system,  equipment  or facility having  reached  the end of its expected  working life.
 The normal day to day maintenance  of the system(s)/facility.
And this term from the policy:  
Wear and tear: any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense  of any kind caused by or resulting  
from wear  and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, vermin, fungus, 
condensation, fading, frost or anything which happens gradually, the process  of cleaning,  dyeing, 
repair, alteration, renovation or restoration.
The cylinder was over 20 years old at the time RSA attempted  repair.  There  had been  a 
previous leak as evidenced by the build-up of corrosion and this looks to have  taken place 
over an extended period.
None of the experts who inspected the cylinder have been able to say for certain what  
caused the damage. But it seems to be a combination of corrosion  and the cylinder having 
reached the end of its expected working life. As these events arent  covered  under  the policy, I 
think its reasonable for RSA to have declined Mr Ps claim for the damaged water cylinder.  
RSAs handling  of the claim
Ref: DRN64164546I agree  RSAs handling of the claim should  have been better. It told Mr P too late that it 
couldnt send  someone out when he made the original claim. RSA should  have requested  Mr 
P provide evidence  of servicing the heating system much sooner than it did and following the 
engineers second visit Mr P had to chase several  times to get a response to his complaint.   
But I think the compensation its paid for its handling  of the claim is fair and Im not 
recommending it does anything else to put things right. 
my final decision
I think the offer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has already made to settle the complaint 
is fair and Im not asking it to do anymore. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020
Chris Bick
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6416454