K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1990, during a meeting  in a Halifax branch, Mr P applied for a loan. At the same time PPI 
was set up to protect his loan repayments if Mr P couldnt work.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr P mainly  said that he wasnt told about the PPI at any stage and wasnt made aware of it. 
He also told us that PPI was something  he always declined if it was offered.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Heres why I say this.
Halifax hasnt got any paperwork  from the sale thats  signed by Mr P. It hasnt supplied any 
examples of the forms it wouldve  used at that time.  And, if there was any discussion about 
PPI, I dont know how Halifax explained  it to Mr P. But where what happened  isnt clear,  
I cant fairly say that Halifax  didnt  make Mr P aware that PPI was an optional feature, just 
based on what Mr P says. 
I dont doubt that Mr P is sure about what  hes told us he can recall  about the sale  but this 
happened a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr P to have 
remembered everything. And Mr P has told us he doesnt remember some details from the 
sale which isnt a surprise.  So I have  to decide  what I think is most  likely, taking into account 
all the information  Ive got and the wider  circumstances. 
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think its more likely that Mr P decided on this 
occasion that he did want the benefits  that having  PPI offered him and the policy  was added 
to his account at his request.
I appreciate that Mr P is certain that PPI wasnt personally recommended for him. But, to be 
as fair as possible to Mr P, as the sale took place during  a meeting with an advisor, Ill look 
at his complaint  on the basis that Halifax advised him to take out PPI with his loan. This 
gives his complaint the best chance  of succeeding because it means that as well as giving 
him clear information, Halifax  also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI 
recommendation was suitable for Mr P.
Mr P was eligible for the policy.  
Ive taken into account what Mr P told us about  his sick pay entitlement at work. But this 
doesnt mean PPI wasnt suitable for him. 
Ref: DRN60385002The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months each time Mr P claimed successfully and 
he couldve  made repeated claims. PPI protected Mr P if he was disabled or too sick to work 
and paid out on top of any work  benefits  in full and for longer that he couldve relied  on 
getting sick pay. Bearing in mind that Mr P mightve also had some  additional costs if he was 
too unwell  to go back to work or disabled,  I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a 
difficult time. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr P if he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of 
work. 
I dont know if Mr P wouldve  always  had savings to rely on if hed needed  to make a claim.  
And if he kept some savings rather than use this money to reduce  the amount he borrowed 
when he took out this loan, then this suggests  to me that having a small lump sum was an 
important consideration for Mr P. So I can see why he mightve wanted to take out the policy.  
Having this PPI meant he wouldnt ever need  to use up any savings just to cover his loan 
monthly repayments. 
So I think the policy was suitable for Mr P. 
Mr P wasnt  affected by any of the usual conditions that mightve  limited  the policys  benefit 
to him. So, even if these  werent mentioned, I dont think  that knowing more  about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr Ps decision to take the policy  out. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr P chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. Mr P hasnt  suggested that he couldnt afford  the monthly premiums. And 
I think Mr P still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if hed been better informed as it gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.  I dont think  better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account  what Mr P has said in response to the 
adjudicators assessment.  But, on balance, I dont find theres  enough information for me to 
say that Halifax  mis-sold  PPI to Mr P. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6038500