K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Payzone UK Limited  mis-sold a terminal  hire agreement and merchant 
services agreement and is expecting him to pay termination costs.
background
Mr T signed the agreements for his business  on 19 June  2018. The card terminal  was 
delivered to him on 11 July 2018.  It was never installed  and in October 2018 Mr T cancelled  
his direct debits. Payzone contacted him and said it had terminated the hire agreement  and 
Mr T needed to pay the outstanding amounts and a termination fee - but which  it had offered 
to reduce.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-The hire agreement set out the terms and conditions including  those about 
cancellation. The merchant services agreement was a separate agreement  for a 
named third party to process card payments. There was a minimum monthly  charge.
-Mr T had the opportunity to read these before he signed them.
-The issue was with the installation of the terminal.  And Payzone  had shown that it 
attempted to call Mr T on 38 occasions  between 10 July and 20 September  2018.
-Mr T called Payzone on 10 October  2018 after hed cancelled  the direct  debit. 
Payzone said it told him he could still install the terminal and it was agreed he would 
call back in a few days. He did not do so and the agreement was terminated.
-Payzone was entitled to the full termination fees.  But it had said it would still offer a 
reduction of fifty percent  of the amount  of £486.60.
Mr T did not agree. He maintained  that he had been misled. He said that there was no way 
that Payzone had called him 38 times.  He had tried to call it. Mr T said he had no idea that a 
third party was involved that would also be taking money from him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know exactly what was said to Mr T by the sales representative. But I am satisfied 
that Mr T signed the two separate agreements. And that the period of hire was for a 
minimum of 12 months. Mr T had the opportunity to read the agreements and I think he was 
reasonably bound by them. There was nothing  to say he could cancel at any time. The 
merchant services agreement stated that it was arranged in association  with the third party. 
It set out the specific costs for processing different types of card payments and that there 
was a minimum charge  of £20 per month.
Mr T received the card terminal. Im afraid that not installing it did not mean that he could 
cancel the agreement. Or that he would  not be liable for any charges. 
Ive seen the detailed information  from Payzone about its attempts to speak to Mr T. I find 
this persuasive. It notes that all of those attempts went to answerphone. On some days it 
attempted to call Mr T up to four times before a longer call in which it seems it left a 
message for him. It has no records of Mr T calling until 10 October  2018.  I know our 
investigator asked Mr T if he had any record of his own calls before then. He wasnt  able to 
provide anything further.
Ref: DRN60948692When Mr T did call on 10 October 2018  Payzone notes that it said it would consider a period 
of free rental  for him. Given he clearly had not used the terminal I think  that was a 
reasonable approach for it to take then.  He did not call back  and as payments were  not 
being made anymore Payzone  terminated  the hire agreement. It said it had also arranged  for 
the third party  to do the same with the processing agreement. It has offered the reduction in 
the termination fee mentioned by our investigator  which remains  available for Mr T. Again in 
my view this was a reasonable approach by Payzone.
I know Mr T will be disappointed when I say that I dont have a basis for find that Payzone  
made a mistake or acted unfairly. So I wont be asking  it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that I wont  be asking Payzone  
to do any more than its already  offered  to and which is to reduce the termination fee as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6094869