K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mrs H says The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs H  she 
clearly feels very strongly about her complaint. Ill set out the reasons for my decision below. 
Mrs H says that she didnt  know she had PPI, and that she only became aware she had it 
this year,  when she made her complaint.
RBS has provided a copy of Mrs Hs credit card application. It was sent to her as part of a 
marketing exercise. Mrs H completed  the application herself, and returned it to RBS through  
the post.
Looking at this application, I can see that the PPI (which at the time RBS called Card 
Payment Protection ) is presented as an optional product and has been  selected with a tick. 
Mrs H has then signed the application, agreeing to the information on it.
It appears from what Mrs H has said that there  seems to be some confusion  about PPI, and 
Sentinel Card Protection  which provides  a different kind of benefit. As Ive explained 
above, RBS labelled its PPI product as Card  Payment Protection. It appeared on Mrs Hs 
statement as Cardholder  Protection Plan.  Sentinel Card Protection  was charged either once 
a year at a cost of £16, or every three years at £39. 
Weve provided the copy for Mrs Hs credit card application to her, showing where the PPI 
had been selected in section four of the application. Section five related to Sentinel Card  
Protection  but this hasnt been selected. Both sections have a broad description of the type 
of cover provided by the product, and the PPI (Card  Payment Protection) also states  that 
further information is enclosed.
Mrs H says that she didnt  differentiate between the two products as she did not know  the 
difference between  them   and that she had a lack of financial literacy at the time.  She says 
that no one from RBS sat down  with her and clarified the difference. She also says that there  
is no proof that the further details mentioned were  included,  and we cant  say for a fact that 
they were.  But I havent seen  anything to suggest that the information  wasnt included  and 
the wording suggests  that it was. So I think its more likely  that RBS did include it.
Mrs H was also choosing to enter in to a financial agreement   so it was up to her to make  
sure she understood  what she was agreeing  to. If there was anything  that she was unsure 
of, she couldve approached RBS for clarification  but she didnt do this, and chose to apply 
herself through the post.  
Ref: DRN69083982So taking everything in to account,  I think RBS did enough to make  it clear  that Mrs H didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out, although I appreciate  Mrs H feels  
differently about  this.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mrs H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive carefully considered  everything that Mrs H has said,  but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6908398