K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that a direct debit payment of £401.71 to PayPal was taken from their 
joint account with Nationwide  Building Society.  They say they didnt set up the direct debit, 
dont have an account with PayPal and didnt authorise the payment.  
background 
In or about March  2019 Mrs J  who handles her and Mr Js financial matters   noticed a 
direct debit payment  to PayPal on their joint account. She queried the payment with 
Nationwide, which in turn contacted PayPal through the direct debit guarantee scheme.  That 
scheme allows customers to challenge direct  debit payments for a number of reasons  
including where  the customer says they didnt set up a direct debit payment. 
PayPal didnt accept  the claim under the direct debit guarantee. It said it had made  a 
payment of 1p to Mr and Mrs Js account  before  it set up the direct  debit. This was, it said,  
sufficient evidence that Mr and Mrs J had set up the payment. Nationwide  accepted that and, 
having temporarily credited Mr and Mrs Js account  with the disputed amount, re-debited it. 
Mr and Mrs J referred  the case to this service,  and one of our investigators considered  it. 
She sought further information from PayPal about the account to which the payment had 
been made. Whilst PayPal wasnt prepared to release information  about the account  to third 
parties (including Nationwide), it did say that the information about its customer  didnt  fully 
match Mr and Mrs Js details. 
Nationwide considered the matter  again  and indicated that it was prepared to refund the 
money to Mr and Mrs Js account. Our investigator didnt however think that went  far 
enough. In addition to the refund  of £401.71, she thought that Nationwide  should pay 
interest at 8% a year and £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience to Mr and 
Mrs J. Nationwide didnt agree to that and asked that an ombudsman  review the case.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill discuss briefly  the way in which the direct debit was set up and how PayPal appear  to 
have verified that Mr and Mrs J were responsible for it. It was set up electronically; that is, 
there was no signed authority. That isnt unusual, but some protection  is given to bank 
customers by the direct  debit guarantee scheme.  Businesses that take payment by direct 
debit (which in this case means PayPal) can evidence that they have a direct debit 
instruction by a number  of different means. In this case it appears that PayPal and its own 
bank relied on: 
Evidence showing that the payer  has confirmed  receipt of a nominal amount into their 
account by provision of an associated reference to the service user.      
A deposit of 1p was made to Mr and Mrs Js account and it appears that confirmation was 
provided to PayPal through its website. Its not clear however what  form that confirmation 
took. Nationwide appears now to accept  though  that it wasnt  Mr and Mrs J who set up the 
direct debit. 
Ref: DRN60644042As Ive indicated, Nationwide agreed  to refund the payment, so I dont need to discuss  that 
any further. I do however  need to address the investigators recommendation that Mr and 
Mrs J be paid interest and an amount for non-financial loss. 
Its not unusual  for our awards to include  interest,  in part as compensation for being deprived 
of money. Its not unusual  either  for interest to be calculated at 8% a year, a rate in line with 
the judgment rate used by courts and representing  to some degree  the cost of 
borrowing. I see no reason to depart from that rate here. 
Similarly, we can include  in a money  award a payment in recognition of the distress or 
inconvenience caused to a complainant. The investigator thought  a payment of £200 was 
reasonable in this case, and I see no reason to differ from that view. Whilst its correct  that 
PayPal initially defended Nationwides claim under the direct debit guarantee, I think  
Nationwide could have  done more to investigate Mr and Mrs Js claim that they didnt set up 
the direct  debit at all. They  were saying they had been defrauded, not that there  had been  
an error in a payment theyd agreed  to. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators  proposed resolution. 
my final decision
My final decision is that to resolve Mr and Mrs Js complaint  Nationwide Building Society 
should pay them:
£401.71;
Interest  on that sum at 8% a year from 1 March 2019 until the date of payment; and
£200 in recognition  of the distress theyve suffered and the inconvenience to which 
theyve been put. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6064404