K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  poor customer  service from Arrow Global Limited and 
its solicitors. Specifically Mrs W (who has dealt  with the complaint throughout) says Arrow 
failed to respond to payment proposals but instead went ahead with legal action to apply  for 
a warrant of eviction.
background
Mr and Mrs W have  a secured loan account which  is now administered  by Arrow. Because  
of arrears on the account, a suspended possession order was granted  in October 2015. The 
order said that Mr and Mrs W had to pay the contractual  monthly payment plus £70.15  off 
the arrears. 
In 2018 the account was still in arrears  and payments were missed in March, May and 
June 2018. Arrow tried to contact Mr and Mrs W to discuss the account.  It wasnt able to 
speak to Mrs W, so a letter was sent on 18 June 2018. The letter  said that Mrs W needed  to 
contact Arrow within ten days or Arrow would apply to the court for a warrant  of eviction.
Mrs W replied to the letter in writing with her proposals for payment. Arrow received the letter  
but neither acknowledged  nor responded to it, until Mrs W contacted  Arrow in July 2018. By 
that time Arrow had instructed its solicitors to apply  for a warrant of eviction. Mrs W spoke to 
arrow over the following  weeks to discuss her and Mr Ws circumstances. 
Arrow had some queries about the income and expenditure information, and tried to contact 
Mrs W by telephone between 12 July 2018  and 6 September 2018. Arrow wasnt  able to 
speak to her and there was no facility to leave  a message. In September 2018 Mrs W 
emailed Arrow asking why shed  had no response to her payment proposals. Arrow emailed 
back and spoke to Mrs W the same day. 
Arrow agreed the payment  proposal  on 17 September 2018. Arrow didnt withdraw the 
instructions to its solicitors  until after the first agreed  payment had been made. An eviction 
date was set for 11 October 2018,  which  was later withdrawn.
Mrs W complained  about Arrows failure to respond. Arrow didnt uphold the complaint so it 
was brought to us where an investigator looked  at it. She thought the complaint should be 
upheld. She acknowledged Mr and Mrs W had an obligation to make payments. But she also 
thought Arrow hadnt done  enough to communicate with Mrs W. The investigator thought 
Arrow should remove the legal costs for the enforcement action  from the account, and pay 
Mr and Mrs W compensation  of £100.
Arrow disagreed and said it had done  all it could to contact Mr and Mrs W. It asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. Arrow said that contact had been attempted but 
Mr and Mrs W had failed to engage  with Arrow, and so the next stage was to progress  with 
enforcement action.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
Ref: DRN67982692Ive looked at the timeline of whats happened. I see that on 20 July 2018  Mrs W emailed 
Arrows solicitors,  as follows:
I received a letter on Friday 22nd or Saturday  23rd June, from Arrow Global dated  
the 18th June 2018, which I was asked to respond within 10 days.
I wrote  back  to them on the 26th June with a proposal and an explanation as to what  
had happened  recently. They received this letter at 7.09am on 29th June signed for 
by [Arrow staff member].
I then made  a telephone call to their arrears department on Friday  6th July confirming 
that they had received my letter  as I had not heard from them  and to pay the 
payment I promised in my letter, as I could not find a link on their website  to make a 
payment with.
I was advised  during  this call that you have been  appointed and was told to ring them 
back to complete an income and expenditure review which I promised I would do on 
Monday 9th July. I phoned on Monday 9th July advising Arrow that in my panic of 
what I was being  told over the phone I forgot  that I had to go to the hospital  with my 
Dad for a procedure in relation to this heart.
I called on Tuesday 10th July to complete my review and sent through the post my 
statements, salary etc. which they received on Thursday 12th July 2018. I called on 
Friday 13th July to confirm receipt and now have heard  nothing.
Mrs W emailed the solicitors again  along  similar lines that she was awaiting a response and 
had been unable to contact Arrow since 4 August 2018.  I see from the contact notes that by 
10 August 2018  Arrow had received these emails,  forwarded  by the solicitors. Given  this, Im 
satisfied Arrow was aware that Mrs W was awaiting a response.
Im also satisfied from the contact notes  that Arrow was (or should have been) aware that 
Mrs W was trying to contact Arrow  to sort this out. Arrow was also aware that its attempts  to 
contact Mr and Mrs W by telephone had been  unsuccessful. By continuing telephone 
attempts when, as per Arrows notes there was a dead tone on one number and a 
message but no voicemail facility on another, Arrow was being deliberately obtuse in 
persisting with a method of communication  which it already knew was proving unsuccessful. 
All Arrow needed  to do was either to write or email  Mr and Mrs W saying Before we can 
agree your proposals,  we have a few queries. Please contact us.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Arrow has treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly and has 
caused them  distress  and upset. I am upholding their complaint.
I see that legal costs of £321.40 were added to the account. These  must  be removed, along 
with any interest accrued  on those costs. Im also satisfied  that Arrow  must pay 
Mr and Mrs W compensation  for distress  and inconvenience. The investigator recommended 
£100 but I think £300 is more appropriate. Thats because the correspondence from Mrs W 
clearly shows  the level of distress these  actions were causing. By applying  for an eviction 
date even after the proposal  had been  agreed, I dont think Arrow acted fairly  and this 
justifies, in my opinion, more than the £100  recommended by the investigator. I think £300 is 
a more appropriate level of compensation.
Ref: DRN67982693my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, Arrow Global Limited  
must do the following:
remove the legal costs of £321.40,  along with any interest accrued on that sum, from 
Mr and Mrs Ws account;
pay compensation of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6798269