K822xcomplaint
Miss S, on behalf of Mr F, complains that Bank  of Scotland  Plc t/a Halifax  hasnt upheld a 
section 75 claim under  the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background 
Mr F booked  holiday  accommodation  using his credit card. He says that when he arrived on 
holiday, the villa wasnt there. He therefore had to pay to secure alternative accommodation 
which cost him more money. 
Mr F is unhappy  that Halifax hasnt upheld his claim for a refund. He thinks there  has been a 
clear breach  of contract.  Halifax believes  that Mr Fs section 75 claim fails as he paid the 
money for the holiday  accommodation to a third party, which therefore broke the creditor,  
debtor and supplier  chain.  However  Halifax did offer Mr F £75 compensation for the poor 
customer service  hed received, along with offering to cover the costs of his calls or any 
other reasonable expenses.
An adjudicator has already looked at this case.  He didnt uphold the complaint either for the 
reasons already expressed by Halifax.
As Mr F is still unhappy  with this outcome, the matter has now been  referred  to me for 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I too am unable to uphold  this complaint 
for the reasons already given by Halifax and the adjudicator.
As I understand Mr F booked the villa in question through a third party.  This third party  was a 
money remittance company, acting as an agent  on behalf of the landlord/property owner.  
Mr F didnt  pay the money directly  to the villa provider. The payment was made  to the third 
party who then forwarded the money  to the villa provider. Im afraid  in light of these  
circumstances I too believe the debtor, creditor, supplier chain has been  broken. As such  I 
dont believe  Mr Fs section  75 claim  can be upheld.
Section 75 under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 doesnt provide an automatic guarantee for 
a refund. And overall  I dont think Halifax  has acted  unfairly by not upholding this complaint. I 
also feel their offer of £75 compensation for poor customer  service, along with offering  to 
cover the cost of calls or any other  reasonable expenses Mr F has incurred, to be fair in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S, on behalf 
of Mr F, to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
Ref: DRN62144472Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6214447