K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the credit limit HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) offered him on a new credit  
card.
background
In 2016 Mr W successfully  applied  for a new credit card with HSBC  and was given a credit  
limit of £5,500. Mr W has exceeded  the credit limit on the card, and he has entered into a 
payment arrangement with HSBC to repay the outstanding balance.
Mr W has complained that HSBC didnt carry out proper checks at the application  stage  he 
says he was in significant financial difficulty when he applied for the credit  card and already 
had agreements with debt management  companies.  Because of this, he doesnt  think  HSBC 
shouldve given him any credit  it wouldve  caused him further financial difficulties - and he 
believes they should waive the outstanding balance on the card.
Mr W has said he was gambling heavily at the time he was given the credit card. Hes also 
complained that HSBC  wouldnt accept  payments from a gambling website, and that they 
didnt freeze  his card or reduce his credit limit when they knew  he had a gambling problem.
Our investigator found HSBC had provided a reasonable  service. She felt that HSBC had 
done a reasonable assessment of Mr Ws creditworthiness before they offered him a credit 
card, and that this was based on the information  they had at the time.  She also felt that 
HSBC had acted  reasonably when  Mr W contacted them about his financial difficulties in 
2017. So, because  of this, she didnt think HSBC  needed to do anything.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigator. He says that HSBC didnt do enough  to help him in his 
situation. He feels HSBC shouldve known there was a significant  increased risk, because he 
was struggling to repay what he owed them, and that they shouldve  refused transactions  
and suspended the use of his account.  Hes also unhappy that HSBC  cant  provide copies of 
phone calls where he says he told them about his gambling problem.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W didnt have any other accounts  with HSBC  when he applied for the credit card. So they 
wouldnt have known  that he was gambling  heavily at the time of the application  they 
wouldnt have had access to any transaction history that wouldve shown this was the case.
HSBC are required to undertake a reasonable assessment of a customers creditworthiness 
before entering  into a regulated credit  agreement. On his application Mr W declared he was 
in full time employment,  with an income of around  £35,000. The income  declared  was 
reasonable for the job Mr W said he did, and HSBC didnt have any other  accounts  they 
could check this against. So they used  the information Mr W had provided  when  looking  at 
affordability. I think this was reasonable.
Ref: DRN69478962HSBC also have an automated credit  file checking process, so dont have a copy of Mr Ws 
credit file at the time of his application.  Mr W has provided a copy of his credit file and this 
shows he had had some  financial difficulties in 2015, but he was up to date with all agreed 
payments when he applied for the credit  card. So I cant  say that HSBC didnt do a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Ws application.
HSBC offered Mr W a credit card, with a credit limit of £5,500, and sent him an agreement  to 
sign to accept this. Mr W didnt  query the credit limit or ask for a lower amount at this point. 
And I havent seen  that he told HSBC that he had a gambling problem at this point either. So 
I cant say they applied their policies unfairly.
Mr W contacted  HSBC  in March 2017  due to financial  difficulties   he said hed been out of 
work, but now had new employment. He feels that, at this point, HSBC  shouldve known he 
had a gambling problem because all his transactions were gambling related. But I agree with 
the investigator that customers are entitled to choose how they use their credit card,  and it 
wouldnt be fair for HSBC  to assume  Mr W had a gambling problem just because  hed used 
the card for gambling transactions.
When Mr W called HSBC about  his financial difficulties,  they discussed  his income and 
expenditure, agreed a temporary  payment plan and froze interest  and charges. They also 
gave him details of a debt charity he could speak  to. I think this was reasonable, and I dont 
think HSBC shouldve done anything more.
Mr W has said that HSBC wouldnt accept payments to the credit  card direct from a 
gambling website.  This is standard practice  with most credit card companies, and acceptable 
payment methods were listed on the monthly statements HSBC sent Mr W. So I dont think  
theyve done anything wrong  by not accepting this payment method.
HSBC havent  been able to provide  copies of any other calls they had with Mr W because  Mr 
W wasnt able to say when he made  these calls to them. I dont think  this is unreasonable  
that HSBC need details  of roughly when a call was made for them to trace it. And I dont  
think that a lack of call recordings means  HSBC are trying to hide something. I cant uphold  
a complaint on the lack of call recordings alone.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint  about  HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6947896