K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the problems hes had with his online banking and other service 
issues with TSB Bank Plc (TSB).   He also believes hes not been paid the interest that was 
due on his account for a period of time.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 March 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
TSB didnt  provide any further information  for me to consider  and said it accepted the 
provisional decision. But Mr S didnt agree and provided a detailed  response which, in 
summary, said the following:
He was aware of the requirements of the account to ensure he continued to receive 
credit interest.
He did understand  that he had to log in to his account at least  every 12 months, and 
hed done so. But he didnt think TSB did enough to help him to correct  the issue  
when he had problems logging in, and it didnt seem to him that TSB wanted to 
resolve matters.
Hed been reporting irregularities with TSBs website since 2014 and more recently 
he was aware that TSBs systems had suffered significant problems. He thought this 
demonstrated that there is a problem with TSBs internet banking,  not his laptop, as 
had been suggested  by TSB.  
He thought that if either he or TSB had made  errors which prevented  him from 
logging in he should have had his account converted to a paper based  one  as set 
out in TSBs terms and conditions. He also says he wasnt  advised about any 
difference in interest  rates between the two accounts.
The reason  he didnt receive interest  wasnt for a failure  to meet  criteria or the 
inability to use the internet but failing  to log in regularly enough and then look at 
statements and view any messages. He didnt believe this was his fault as he said he 
couldnt view anything  because  he couldnt log in.
He says its impossible for him to operate his accounts effectively and when hes tried 
to discuss it with TSB hes been met with bureaucratic behaviour. 
He has continued  to inform TSB, since the very start of opening  the new account in 
2014, that its internet system is defective  and the handling of it not professional.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I was sorry to learn  of the recent ill health 
Mr S has been suffering  since I issued my provisional decision and Im grateful that  
following his request to us for information,  hes been  able to provide a very detailed  
response, which I have read and considered  in its entirety. However, I trust that he will not 
take the fact that my findings are expressed in considerably less detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Ref: DRN61909992And having considered Mr S further submissions very carefully I see no reason to change  
the conclusions  I came to in my provisional  decision.
Mr S says hes fully aware of the necessary criteria for him to qualify to get interest paid on 
his accounts.  But hes been unable to log in to the accounts successfully and access  various 
statements and other correspondence which he needs to do to maintain  the interest 
payments. He says thats not his fault and that it must be a problem with TSBs  systems  as 
has been borne out by the problems staff members had logging  into his account  and by 
TSBs more recent IT issues, which were widely reported. 
And in my provisional  decision I accepted  that Mr S was aware  of the criteria and had always 
satisfied most of its requirements.  But the reason he hasnt  received interest for the period in 
2017-2018 is because he didnt log into his account  and view his messages or statements. 
And from what Ive seen there isnt sufficient and clear evidence to show that TSB locked 
Mr S out of his account after August 2017.  TSB has confirmed there werent  any reported 
issues with its systems around  this time and Mr S hasnt been  able to demonstrate that TSB 
did anything deliberate to stop him logging into his account. Indeed Ive seen evidence  to 
show that every time Mr S did approach staff at a TSB branch, they were able to help him to 
regain access to his account and reset the password for him to use going forward. 
I cant see any evidence that TSB ignored Mr S requests or failed to answer his questions  
so I dont think TSB has acted unfairly there.  As  Ive said previously I think,  on balance, its 
most likely that Mr S made an error  in logging on to his account   which  led to it being  
suspended  and thats why he wasnt able to get into his account,  view his correspondence  
and qualify for interest payments.  And theres no evidence that Mr S tried to log into his 
account, or complain to TSB that he was unable to log in, for some  considerable time after 
the password  was reset around August/September 2017.
Ive also seen how TSB previously said it might  not have done enough to make  all 
customers aware of the criteria around  qualification  for the interest payments and therefore it 
refunded Mr S the interest  payments it didnt pay him in 2016. I think  that was a fair 
resolution from TSB as Mr S hadnt logged  in to review his correspondence during that time. 
But I dont think it should have to refund any payments for the time Mr S didnt log in before 
TSB had reset his password in August 2017. 
Mr S has made reference to what I said about whether his account  should have been 
downgraded when he failed to meet the criteria to qualify for the interest payments. 
He said no one made him aware that he could change to a paper based  account and that 
TSB hadnt followed its own terms and conditions by not switching his account. But as I said 
previously TSB has said it doesnt  usually  enforce  that condition mainly  because the other 
lesser account doesnt  accrue any interest at all. 
So I dont  think it wouldnt have been in Mr S interest to have had his account changed and 
instead I think it was fair for him to be given the opportunity to try to maintain credit  interest  
by qualifying through his existing account.
I realise Mr S will be disappointed with my decision.  But it brings to an end what  we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with TSB informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr S 
further.
Ref: DRN61909993my final decision
For the same reasons  that Ive already  given  in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr S 
complaint against  TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61909994copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains about the problems hes had with his online  banking and other service issues with 
TSB Bank  plc (TSB).  He also believes  hes not been paid the interest that was due on his account for 
a period of time.
background
Mr S has a number of accounts with TSB.  Some of them have certain  conditions for receiving interest 
which include  paying in a minimum amount each month and viewing account  statements and 
correspondence online. Mr S said hed had problems logging into his account  and hadnt received 
interest that was due, so he complained to TSB in January 2017.
TSB said the reason  hed not received the interest was because he hadnt logged into the account for 
the previous 12 months. But TSB wasnt sure it had communicated this information  clearly  to Mr S so 
it agreed to pay him the missing interest from June to December  2016 and some travelling  
expenses. TSB also says it made  Mr S aware of what he needed to do to ensure he met the terms of 
the account to get his interest. This included, paying in £500 per month and receiving  statements and 
correspondence on line. 
But, Mr S says he continued to experience problems accessing his account. And this meant he didnt  
receive interest payments  in 2017. He says when  he visited  branches to explain the issues TSB staff 
also had difficulty accessing the accounts. He has acknowledged that following  one visit TSB reset his 
internet banking  details so that he could  have the interest applied. But after that Mr S said he couldnt 
log in again so he complained.
TSB explained that when Mr S contacted it again  in August 2017 it helped Mr S reset  his online 
account. It also became  aware that one of the accounts thats should  have been credited  with the 
interest mentioned  above hadnt been credited properly, so it put this right too. 
But in September 2017 TSB says Mr S account was suspended as hed used the wrong password  to 
log in. It also said that as Mr S hadnt logged into his account  between  January and August 2017 he 
didnt comply with the terms and conditions on the account to receive  further interest.  Mr S wasnt 
happy with this outcome  so he referred the complaint  to us.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld.  He said it seemed  
Mr S had input his details incorrectly which had caused him to be locked out of his online banking 
account. He also explained  that Mr S hadnt satisfied the criteria to receive  interest on the account.
Mr S didnt agree  and said that he had made numerous attempts to resolve the logging on issues 
which included branch  visits and written correspondence  on the matter , But he says TSB had just 
advised him to  complain  to the ombudsman. He believed he hadnt  been treated  fairly by TSB and 
had spent a lot of time trying to resolve  matters without success. So Mr S complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided  detailed submissions to support his complaint, which I have read and considered  in 
their entirety.  However, I hope he will understand that my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and are given in considerably less detail. The purpose of my decision is not to address 
every point raised in detail,  but to set out my conclusions about the crux of his complaint and my 
reasons for reaching  them.
Ref: DRN61909995I was sorry to learn about the health issues from which Mr S has been suffering for some  time.  I can 
see that this matter has been extremely frustrating for him and I have some sympathy for the position  
hes in being unable to access his account and claim  the interest he thinks hes lost. But I have to tell 
Mr S that I dont think TSB has done  anything  wrong here  which  I know will disappoint him  so Ill 
explain why. 
Its not in dispute that there are certain criteria which need to be met in order to continue to receive 
interest on these accounts. Mr S told us clearly that he knew  about  the criteria  when he took out the 
accounts. And looking at statements for Mr S accounts I think  the interest rate must be the main 
reason he holds them  because theres little evidence  of any other activity. So I think  the interest Mr S 
receives is important  to him and therefore I would  expect him to ensure he fulfils  the necessary 
conditions to receive  it. 
Ive seen the criteria that apply to customers in order to receive interest on these accounts, one of 
which is to log into the account and view correspondence and statements at least once every 
12 months. 
But it seems  Mr S didnt log into his account between June and December  2016,  so he didnt get the 
interest. But TSB accepted it might  not have  made these criteria clear enough to its customers  so it 
agreed to pay Mr S interest for that period.  And Ive seen that in January and August 2017 Mr S 
received the missing interest on his two accounts.  Im also persuaded  that as a result of this Mr S 
was aware of what he needed to do to receive  interest going forward.   
TSB has provided records to show that Mr S didnt log on to his account between January and August 
2017. And I cant see that he contacted TSB doing this time so I dont  think  TSB is required to make 
an interest payment  for that period.
So Ive thought carefully about  the problems  logging onto his accounts  that Mr S has told us about  
and what he says prevented  him from meeting the conditions of the accounts. 
Its not in dispute that in September 2017 Mr S on line access was suspended. TSB says this is 
because the wrong passwords were entered multiple  times.  Mr S has said its inconceivable that he 
input incorrect log in details  so many  times  and therefore couldnt log on. He thinks its TSBs fault. 
Hes also said that the branches he visited had problems  accessing his accounts.  
So Ive thought about this carefully too. But I cant safely say that TSB has caused this problem. TSB 
has demonstrated that Mr S input his details incorrectly a number of times and was locked  out of the 
account, and theres no evidence to show any reported problems with TSBs  online banking  systems 
from other customers at that time. 
I think   on balance, its most  likely Mr S made an error  logging on and theres  nothing  to suggest to 
me that TSB deliberately didnt allow Mr S to use his online facility.  TSB has confirmed that once  
logged on Mr S would still have had to view his correspondence and statements to fulfil the qualifying 
criteria, and Mr S has confirmed he knew this. But I cant see that he tried to unlock his account  after 
the attempt in September 2017 so I dont  think  TSB did anything wrong regarding  account access.
Ive gone on to consider if TSB should have enforced one of its terms and conditions namely to 
downgrade Mr S account when the qualifying conditions werent met, in case he could have obtained  
some interest  from a lesser account that may have  suited his circumstances better. 
But TSB has confirmed that it doesnt  enforce that condition as a general rule to be fair to all its 
customers, and in any case the downgraded account doesnt attract any interest.  
Mr S says hes been discriminated against by TSB because hes not been able to log into his account  
since he complained about the service and interest issues.  And Ive considered these  comments  very 
carefully. But theres no evidence to suggest that TSB have treated  Mr S account any differently to its 
other customers. 
Ref: DRN61909996The branch staff were  able to access  and unlock  Mr S account  in his presence  in September 
2017. So I cant safely say hes been discriminated against. And I think  TSB has acted reasonably in 
dealing with Mr S and trying to help him when  hes brought his problems  to its attention. I cant see 
any evidence that TSB ignored his requests or failed to answer his questions  so I dont think  TSB has 
acted unfairly  there.   
I note to date Mr S still hasnt accessed his account online and continues not to receive interest 
payments. I would encourage Mr S to engage with TSB further until he is able to properly access  his 
account online and fulfil the necessary conditions  of looking at his statements and online 
correspondence. Alternatively  he may wish to consider  transferring  his banking arrangements  
elsewhere. 
I can see that Mr S has asked for any copies of submissions that the business  sent to the office of 
the ombudsman. Despite asking Mr S for details of exactly what he needs, he hasnt responded. If 
Mr S requires any documentation to enable him to respond  to my provisional  decision he should  
contact us to let us know.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  Im not minded to uphold Mr S complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6190999