K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs G bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a store card.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint because:
 I think FICL made Mrs G aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Gs store  card application form. On this form 
there was a section  for PPI with the title ACCOUNT COVER (Only sign this box if you 
require Account Cover) . In this section  Mrs G has signed separately to agree to take 
PPI. Shes also signed the overall  application to confirm what she was applying  for.
Mrs G has complained that there was no mention of PPI and if she did sign for PPI, 
she did so unwittingly. Shes said she only realised she had PPI in 2018 when she 
requested information  from FICL. Ive carefully considered this, but even in the unlikely 
scenario where  Mrs G signed  separately to agree to take PPI without realising it, FICL 
have told us that she would have been sent paperwork after the sale about the policy.  
But I havent seen  evidence that Mrs G did or did not receive the paperwork FICL have 
referred to. 
What I can safely say is that PPI would  have appeared  on Mrs Gs monthly  store card 
statements when she had an outstanding balance. So I think that Mrs G would quite 
reasonably have questioned with FICL  much sooner than she did, what  she was 
paying for had she not realised shed agreed  to take PPI. 
Ref: DRN69786222But I havent seen  evidence that she did, and the evidence is that PPI remained on the 
account for a number  of years after it was taken  out. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But FICL did still have to give Mrs G good enough information  so that she could  decide  
if the policy was right for her and if she wanted PPI. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs G doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Gs comments, so these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6978622