K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr A says Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Egg Card (Barclays), mis-sold him PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr A applied for the credit card online and Ive seen a screen shot of what  Mr A would have 
seen during the application. There is a section headed Egg Card extras and here, Mr A 
would have had to choose whether he wanted PPI. It broadly  summarised  what the PPI 
provided and how much it cost. There were  two options: Yes,  I want to protect my 
repayments or No, I understand it is my responsibility to keep up my repayments  should I 
fall ill or lose my job.
So, I think that Barclays made it clear Mr A didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to 
take it  although I can certainly understand why he might not remember  this after so long. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr A got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But he likely  chose  to take out the policy - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI. 
I appreciate Mr A says he received good  benefits from his employer if he wasnt able to 
work, but the PPI would have paid out at the same time as Mr A was receiving  any sick pay 
and for longer. It would have covered the card repayments for up to 12 months per claim if 
he was off work because  of an accident or sickness or if he lost his job. 
Mr A has said he had some savings he could have used to meet his repayments if he 
needed to. But the PPI meant he wouldnt have had to use his savings if he was unable to 
work for a lengthy period. 
All things  considered I think the PPI provided  a useful benefit and I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN62215882Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr A, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said including what he said about  not being  given  an 
option for PPI, and that he wouldnt have taken  it because he had good employee benefits. 
But for the reasons Ive explained  above, these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6221588