K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) over difficulties 
they encountered setting up their regular  saver savings accounts. They want  Nationwide to 
re-work their accounts as though they had been  saving regularly to the accounts  from early 
2018, and to pay them compensation for their distress and inconvenience.  
background 
Mr and Mrs T previously  held a joint savings accounts with Nationwide,  into which they paid 
the maximum of £500 per month. 
This account closed  in early 2018  and Nationwide replaced the account with an account 
which had a maximum contribution of £250 per month. 
Mr and Mrs T wanted to continue saving at the same rate of monthly contribution, so decided 
to open two of the new accounts. 
They wanted  both of the accounts to be in joint names, but with each of them  as the principal  
account holder  of one account. 
In February 2018  Mrs T completed an application,  listing her husband as an additional 
account holder.  They  paid £250 into this account. 
The following  day Mr and Mrs T tried to open a second account, but they did this using 
Mrs Ts internet banking log on details. The system therefore automatically listed Mrs T as 
the principal applicant again,  with Mr T as the additional holder. 
Nationwides system did not allow for customers to hold multiple accounts of this type, so the 
system restricted  the second  account. When Mr and Mrs T tried to pay £250 into the second 
account, the transaction was not accepted. 
Mr and Mrs T noticed that the accounts were not working as expected in April 2018,  and 
contacted Nationwide. They explained  that they wanted to change  the order of their names 
on the second account, so the second account  was principally in Mr Ts name and could 
receive funds. 
Nationwide advised  that this could  be done  by removing Mrs T from the account, and then 
subsequently adding her on as an additional account holder. This required both 
Mr and Mrs T to complete an authority confirming that they were  happy to do this. 
Mr and Mrs T completed the authority form in May 2018 and returned this to Nationwide. 
Mr and Mrs T made calls to Nationwide to chase progress and eventually complained in 
summer 2018. They were  asked to complete forms authorising the account changes  again. 
Nationwide sent its response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint in June 2018. It did not consider 
that the business had done anything wrong and rejected their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs T wrote to Nationwide again  and reiterated that the account was still not 
functioning properly.  Mr and Mrs T felt that Nationwide were unhelpful in their customer  
service and complaint  handling. 
Ref: DRN62071742In July 2018, Nationwide completed  a change to the account, so that it could function 
properly. At that time a regular  payment  into both of the accounts was also set up. 
Nationwide responded to Mr and Mrs Ts complaints  again and at this point recognised  that 
they could have been more helpful  to Mr and Mrs T when  Mr and Mrs T contacted  them. 
They offered  £100  compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs T were  not happy  with that response  and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and has set out a view to the parties. 
This was that Nationwide were not at fault for the second account not working, as it had 
been incorrectly opened, but he felt that Nationwide had not been sufficiently helpful when 
contacted by Mr and Mrs T in April 2018  and afterwards. He therefore felt that Nationwide 
should backdate the account interest  as though they had been completed  in April 2018, 
when Mr and Mrs T contacted Nationwide. He felt that Nationwides offer of £100 
compensation was reasonable  to reflect  the inconvenience. 
Nationwide then agreed to set up the second account as though the initial  deposit  had been  
made in February  2018 and interest  had been earned since then,  but said that it should  not 
add backdate interest as though regular payments into the accounts  had been made as 
these were not set up by Mr and Mrs T. 
Mr and Mrs T rejected this offer and asked  for an ombudsman decision. They felt that 
Nationwide should  accept payments, and backdate interest, as though payments had been 
made regularly since  February 2018. They also consider that Nationwide  should  pay them 
£200 compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs T that they were  not able to set up their accounts  as they 
wished in February 2018. They have  said that the process for this was not sufficiently clear 
as Nationwides  system did not advise them in advance that the accounts would default to 
the primary account holder being  the person logged in. 
I appreciate their concern, and I understand that in practice it is not uncommon  for one joint 
account holder  to complete information on behalf of the other, but I am not critical that the 
business did not specify that accounts had to be set up under separate log in details. The 
account had a maximum deposit limit per account holder and it logically follows  that there 
would be a limit on how many accounts an individual can set up. As Nationwide had issued 
distinct log in details  to both Mr and Mrs T I think it is reasonable for Nationwide to treat 
access as coming from the person that the details were issued to, and to default to their 
details. Whilst this may have been  frustrating for Mr and Mrs T, I do not think  it was poor 
service from Nationwide. 
That said,  once the mistake had been made,  and Mr and Mrs T had identified that they had 
set the accounts  up wrongly, I think that Nationwide  should  have  made greater efforts to help 
Mr and Mrs T amend their details.  Nationwide was entitled to send the form requesting 
authority, but after this had been sent once and the correction not made  I think it would have 
Ref: DRN62071743been very frustrating  for Mr and Mrs T to complete the same information again. It was 
possible later for an agent to accept authority in a different  way and I think this should have 
been explored at an earlier stage when  Mr and Mrs T contacted  Nationwide.  
As a result, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint to the extent that their requests for help to 
amend the account details were not dealt with adequately.  
I do, however  agree  that it was Mr and Mrs Ts responsibility to ensure that the regular 
payment was set up, and I do not criticise Nationwide in relation  to Mr and Mrs T being 
delayed in setting  up their regular payment. 
To put things right, I think that Nationwide is right to make the changes to Mr and Mrs Ts 
second account as though it had been  set up correctly and the initial  deposit had been 
made. This initial deposit will then earn interest as though it had reached the account in 
February.
I also think that Nationwides offer of £100  is reasonable  to reflect  the inconvenience and 
distress caused by Nationwides failings. 
Mr and Mrs T have  argued that Nationwide  should  rework both accounts as though deposits 
of £250 per month had been made to both accounts between March  and July 2018. They 
also think that the compensation offered is insufficient. 
Whilst I understand their views I do not think it would be fair or reasonable to require 
Nationwide to pay interest on a regular payment which  was not put in place due to factors 
that were not Nationwides fault. 
I also think that the payment of £100, which Nationwide paid to Mr and Mrs T in July 2018, is 
in line with awards we would  make  in similar circumstances and I think  it is appropriate. 
As a result, whilst I realise that this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs T, I do not ask 
Nationwide to do anything  further
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, but think that the action 
taken by Nationwide Building Society  is appropriate.  I do not ask it to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6207174