K821xAdmiral15complaint
Miss B complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt repair  her car properly 
after she claimed under her motor insurance policy.
background
After Miss Bs car collided with a concrete post Admiral had her car repaired. But she said 
they didnt repair the air-conditioning unit which she said must have been damaged in the 
incident as it had been working before. Admiral said that issue  wasnt accident-related 
damage but was pre-existing. 
The first adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Admiral should instruct  an independent  assessor and pay Miss B £100  compensation for not 
having done that despite telling her they would. Admiral then sent us further  evidence,  
including photographs,  which suggested that the any air conditioning damage was not 
accident related.  A second adjudicator thought Admiral had acted fairly on the evidence they 
had to decide the damage was not accident-related. So they thought that Admiral  didnt need 
to appoint an independent assessor,  but they should  still compensate Miss B £75 for her 
loss of expectation in not appointing  one when they said they would.  Admiral  didnt agree 
and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the first adjudicator  explained, we are not engineers and we do not assess whether or 
how damage to a car has been caused,  as this is a matter for the experts, insurance 
companies and engineers. Our role is to determine whether an insurer  has considered all the 
available evidence and can justify the decision not to pay for additional repairs or 
inspections.
Miss B said that because  the accident  was in winter,  she didnt realise there was any 
problem with the air-conditioning until she used it in summer.  Her garage confirmed that the 
air-conditioning had a leak but didnt say that the accident would have caused  that. She said 
it had worked before  the accident  and so it must have been damaged in the accident. 
Admiral disagreed. Their  in-house engineer said that the air-conditioning workings were not  
in the area of the car damaged in the accident. But they at first offered to instruct  an 
independent assessor to check  the car. They later changed their minds  and cancelled  that 
but said they would look at any evidence  Miss B could  send  them in support of her case. 
The first adjudicator thought that Admiral  should re-arrange for the independent assessment 
and abide by their decision and should also pay Miss B £100 for her trouble and upset.
Admiral didnt agree. They then sent further evidence  which  showed that the radiator and air 
conditioning unit were  located behind a panel which showed no sign of impact  damage.  
They also sent photographs which showed signs of corrosion on the radiator. So they felt 
that the air conditioning issue was pre-existing. So the second adjudicator came to a 
different opinion from the first. They thought that Admiral had reached  their decision to 
decline the air conditioning damage fairly.  But the second adjudicator  still thought Admiral 
Ref: DRN66850122should compensate  Miss B  £75  for failing to manage her expectations by saying they would  
appoint an independent assessor  then not doing so. 
Admiral wouldnt accept  the adjudicators recommendation.  They  said theyd cancelled the 
independent assessment because Miss B didnt respond to the assessors when they tried to 
arrange it, and theyd tried to contact Miss B over about a month.  Miss B says thats  not 
correct and she didnt  hear from the assessors.
We asked Admiral for evidence of this alleged contact. They  showed  us information from the 
assessors that theyd  sent Miss B texts and also had a few phone  conversations with her 
about arranging  to get the car in for inspection. Its possible that Miss B forgot about these or 
didnt realise she was talking to the assessors. But I dont  think it matters as its clear 
anyway that she wasnt failing to co-operate with the assessors. Its also clear that  Admiral 
didnt cancel the inspection because of that. They cancelled because, as theyd said in their 
final response, they realised that an assessment would mean  stripping  down  the car not just 
inspecting it.
Looking at the evidence Admiral had, I dont think that it was unfair  of them  to decide not to  
repair the air conditioning problem. They were  entitled to rely on the evidence  they had, and 
on their own engineers inspection. They were also prepared to reconsider if Miss B could 
show them  evidence that the problem was due to the accident. And although theyd at first 
offered an independent  inspection, and later changed their minds, I dont think that was 
unreasonable either. They were  entitled  before doing that to consider the costs involved and 
decide that it was no economic to proceed  with that after all. But I do think  that telling Miss B 
theyd arrange  such an inspection, then cancelling it, did create a loss of expectation for her 
and so I do think they should  compensate her for that. I think  that £75 is sufficient to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I partly  uphold this complaint. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to do the following:
Pay Miss B £75 in compensation for her distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell them Miss B 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Admiral considers that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  
tax from that interest, they should tell Miss B how much they have taken off. They  should  
also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6685012