K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
In June 2000, Mr B applied for a loan.  At the same time Lloyds  sold Mr B a PPI policy.  The 
cost of the PPI was added  to the loan  so Mr B would repay the extra he borrowed, with 
interest, as part of his monthly loan repayments.
Mr B thinks  the policy was mis-sold.
Lloyds investigated  the complaint, and agreed  it should be upheld.  But it says Mr B had 
made a successful claim on the PPI  and that Mr B had received £12,175.20  from this 
claim. As this was a lot more than Mr B had paid towards the PPI, Lloyds didnt think  it 
needed to pay Mr B any compensation.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, and thought  that what  Lloyds had done was fair.
Mr B doesnt  agree.
The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds agrees it mis-sold  the policy. So Ive just looked at whether its offer is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect  the business  to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt  
bought the policy.
Lloyds has worked  out that Mr B paid an extra £3,067.27  towards the PPI. And it says the 
loan was £392.34 bigger  than it should  have  been  when the loan ended in 2004. 
But Lloyds says Mr B claimed  on the policy. The records Lloyds has sent me shows  that the 
PPI paid £12,175.20 towards Mr Bs loan following his claim.
These are benefits Mr B wouldnt have received if hed not bought  the PPI. If he hadnt had 
PPI, hed have  needed to find this money out of his own pocket. But thanks to the PPI, this 
was paid for him.
For this reason, I think its fair for Lloyds  to take what Mr B got from the claim off any 
compensation it needs to pay. This is also something Lloyds is allowed to do under the rules 
set by the Financial  Conduct Authority, which Im required to take into account  when 
reaching my decision. 
As the amount Mr B got in benefit from the PPI was a lot more  than the extra he had to pay, 
this means Mr B gets nothing.
Ref: DRN63839522Ive thought about what Mr B has said about this. Hes told us about  the difficulties hes been 
having financially. And hes also asked if we can look at any trouble and upset the mis-sale 
caused.
But I dont think a further award would be fair. Mr B appears to be in a much better financial 
position, thanks  to the PPI, than he would have been if he hadnt bought  the policy. And it 
looks as though the PPI was useful to him at a time when hes told us he was unable to work 
or pay his bills. Any award Id make  isnt intended  to punish the business  but to reflect the 
impact the sale of the PPI had on Mr B.
In all the circumstances, I think that what Lloyds has done  is fair.
my final decision
Mr B claimed on the policy.  I think its fair for Lloyds Bank PLC to deduct  the claim from any 
compensation. So I dont make  a further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6383952