K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complaint is about  Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) not covering the 
repair to Mrs Bs mobile phone. 
background
In 2018, Mrs B received a replacement refurbished  mobile phone  from AGI. The refurbished 
phone had a 12-month warranty for electrical  and software faults. In January 2019 Mrs B 
sent her phone to AGI for repair   as it kept getting  hot and turning off. On arrival AGI 
reported that the phone screen had a crack  in it and explained this voided the warranty so it 
wouldnt repair the issue Mrs B had reported. AGI said if Mrs B wanted  the screen repaired, 
shed have to pay a new excess.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree. Mr and Mrs B say the screen was undamaged when the phone 
was sent away  to be repaired. They thought the screen must  have  been  damaged  either by 
AGI or the courier they used to send the phone.  Mr and Mrs B asked for the packaging they 
used to send the phone to be returned  to them but AGI explained it had been destroyed  
once it had unpacked the mobile phone. 
Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint due to what had happened. AGI didnt agree it had done 
anything wrong   with regards  to the damage to the phones  screen  or by destroying the 
packaging. 
Our investigator didnt  think there was enough  evidence to show the phone had been 
damaged by AGI. But she couldnt  be sure what had happened she asked  AGI to reduce the 
excess fee by 50% as a gesture of goodwill - which AGI agreed to. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree, so the complaint has been passed  to me. I issued my provisional 
decision in December 2019 explaining why I was thinking of coming  to a different outcome to 
the adjudicators. Ive attached a copy of the decision to the end of this document. In my 
provisional decision I explained why I was thinking of upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
But I asked for any further comments or evidence to be provided before I issued my final 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs B responded to say they had no further comments. AGI responded said it didnt 
think Mr and Mrs B had sent the original phone packaging. It said it was likely Mr and Mrs B 
used the plain black box AGI had used to send the phone to them in 2018. So, the fact the 
instructions didnt tell Mr and Mrs B not to send  the packaging wasnt  detrimental to them. 
It also said that Mr and Mrs B wouldnt be able to make a claim to Royal  Mail as AGI had 
paid for the postage costs  and not Mr and Mrs B. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done Im still upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered AGIs comments  about the packaging, but Mr and Mrs B have said that it 
was the original manufacturers box they used and not the one supplied by AGI with the 
refurbished phone. They have explained  this in detail in their submissions to this service  and 
Ref: DRN66463082Ive not been given  anything to make me think otherwise. So, I still think the fact the 
instructions for sending  the phone for repair omits to mention about not sending  the original 
packing has caused Mr and Mrs B an inconvenience. 
Ive also thought about what  AGI has said about  it paying for the postage costs and not Mr 
and Mrs B. And although this means that Mr and Mrs B couldnt  make the claim against the 
courier directly,  I dont  think this really changes anything. I say this because even if the 
packaging had been kept, it might not have proven that the phone  was damaged whilst in 
transit. 
But what  I think is important for me to consider  is whether Mr and Mrs B followed the 
instructions given to them  by AGI and if they didnt, is that because AGIs directions werent 
as clear as they could  have been. And as Ive discussed above, I think  it didnt provide 
everything Mr and Mrs B needed  to do, so they have lost out by something AGI didnt make 
clear.
To put things right, AGI should:
Reduce the excess fee to £37.50;
Pay Mr and Mrs B £50 for the inconvenience caused by not telling them about the 
packaging in the instructions for sending the phone for repair.  
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Assurant General  Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs B £50 
and reduce the excess fee they need to pay to £37.50. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66463083my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im thinking  of partially upholding the complaint. Ill explain  why. 
I havent got anything to show what condition  the phone was in before it was sent for repair so its 
difficult to be sure exactly what has happened. Its not possible to say exactly  when the phone was 
damaged and by who. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B are steadfast in their recollections that the 
screen wasnt damaged  when they sent it to AGI, but from the evidence available to me I dont think  I 
can safely say that the damage  was caused by AGI either. 
I understand this is disappointing for Mr and Mrs B. But I think  that its reasonable for AGI to register a 
new claim, albeit with a reduced excess.
Ive also thought  about  the fact AGI has destroyed the packaging Mr and Mrs B used to send  the 
phone to them. And I understand why they are frustrated that this has been disposed  of  especially 
as it means any claim  against the courier for the damage is now made more difficult. 
Looking at the terms of the agreement, it says not to send  the original box as it will be destroyed. But I 
can see the letter from AGI to Mr and Mrs B with the instructions for sending the phone for a repair 
omits to mention anything about the original packaging. I also understand that by sending the phone 
in its original box, its likely Mr and Mrs B were trying to ensure the phone arrived  undamaged.
I think  had the letter also stated not to send the phone in its original packaging,  Mr and 
Mrs B would not have sent the phone the way they did. So I think Mr and Mrs B have lost out by 
something AGI has done. I think an award  of £50 is a fair amount in recognition for the trouble  this 
has caused.  
To put things right, AGI should:
Reduce the excess  fee to £37.50;
Pay Mr and Mrs B £50 for the inconvenience caused  by not telling them about the packaging 
in the instructions  for sending the phone for repair. 
Ref: DRN6646308