K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that SOFOLOGY  LIMITED  (Sofology) mis-sold a furniture  protection  
insurance policy to her. Mr H brings this complaint as Mrs Hs representative.
background
Mr and Mrs H bought  three sofas and a love seat from Sofology in early January 2018 from 
two different ranges. At the time, the sofas were bought with furniture protection insurance 
which cost £429  in total. As the furniture was bought from two different ranges,  Sofology 
says there  are two separate insurance  policies in place.  The sofas and love seat cost just 
over £6,100, including the cost of furniture  protection insurance policy and delivery. The cost 
was covered by an interest free loan.
Not too long after delivery,  Mr and Mrs H say their young child drew on two of the sofas. 
They tried to get the felt tip out using the products given to them but this didnt work. So they 
logged into the Sofology  website to find the contact details for the insurer  and noted the 
terms and conditions include  the following term:
5 WHAT IS NOT COVERED
Any claim for or resulting from the following  will not be valid:
1 Damage caused deliberately by any person  or child other than the first incident of 
deliberate damage  by a child covered under  this insurance; 
So, although  they were covered for this incident,  they say that making a claim so soon  after 
delivery of the new sofas means this would end the whole   cover. 
Mr and Mrs H say they thought the insurance covered them  for an unlimited number of 
claims for deliberate damage by their children.  And they already had this on their minds  as 
their child had drawn on the wall and fireplace. They say they bought the sofa solely  as the 
policy existed. And, if theyd known the policy would only cover them  for one claim  for 
deliberate damage, they wouldnt have bought  the sofas from Sofology  at all. The other  
option they say they had in mind  was a set, with washable  covers, from another retailer for 
£2,000. However,  Mr and Mrs H say they were persuaded not to buy the £2,000 sofas due 
to the [insurance] product being akin to a permanent washable facility.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to Sofology and asked it to take back  the sofas,  refund the cost to 
them plus interest.  They say theyve been sold products  valued  at around £6,000 on the 
basis of unlimited claims. And without that cover,  the sofas  arent valued to them  anywhere 
near the £6,000 paid. And, by the time they received  the policy terms, it was too late to 
cancel the furniture order.
Sofology said that Mrs H made a non-cancellable order  for the furniture and only the 
insurance couldve been cancelled, without penalty, within 14 days of receiving the terms 
and conditions. It also said that the terms wouldve been sent out after the sale of the policy 
so it didnt uphold  this complaint and Mr and Mrs H came to our service.  
To put things right, Mr and Mrs H have told our service  that they feel Sofology should give 
them a full refund.  Or leave the sofas  with them but pay compensation. And they say that, as 
they were very close to buying washable sofas  from [another retailer] for up to £2000 this 
would be a compensatory payment  of £4,000  to reflect the value of the sofas now have to 
Ref: DRN68952462them. And it would be easier to get on without thinking "these cost £6,000 and two 
deliberate acts and were  out!" by having  compensation.
Our investigator thought that, even though  Mr and Mrs H werent sent the terms and 
conditions of the policy, it doesnt  automatically  mean that the furniture was mis-sold. And it 
was more likely Mr and Mrs H went into the store with the purpose  of buying furniture and 
the insurance was introduced after, as set out in the sales process  and script from Sofology.
Even so, as Sofology had offered to refund  the cost of the insurance  to Mrs H when the 
complaint came to our service she felt this dealt with the complaint that the insurance had 
been sold without  the terms being  provided within 14 days of the sale.  This is because  the 
refund puts Mrs H in the position she wouldve been  in if she hadnt been sold the insurance.  
She also recommended Sofology  pay Mrs H compensation  of £50 for any inconvenience  
caused by the failure to give the insurance terms and conditions when it should have.
Finally, our investigator explained  that Sofologys  cancellation terms state that sofa orders  
are non-cancellable once  the order is placed.  So they wouldnt have  had an option to cancel  
the order even  if the policy terms had been  sent to them within 14 days  of the date of sale 
and Mr and Mrs H had felt the policy terms werent suitable.  So she didnt  uphold  Mrs Hs 
complaint that a mis-sale  of the insurance  meant  there was also a mis-sale of the furniture.
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with this and dont want to lose the insurance. They raise a 
number of points  in response to the investigators view including  the following:
-Sofology have  been inconsistent throughout and so credibility is an issue.
-They werent told about the exclusion for deliberate damage until around  three  
months after buying the furniture.
-The insurance formed part of the overall  contract  to buy the furniture and was 
imperative in their decision to go ahead. 
-They ask who would  buy white sofas with two children without being given complete 
peace of mind .
-They shouldve been sold one policy per seat, not one per range of sofas  ordered.
-They must have  been  to Sofology 4/5 times . On each occasion we asked about  
the [insurance] and "whats the catch" was raised several times. "No catch" and a 
smile was the response. When pushed we were  told about "acts of war" or "domestic  
violence" as if there would never be a foreseeable occasion  when the insurance  
would not be unlimited up to the value of the sofas.  So they bought  the furniture on 
the basis that they had unlimited claims for deliberate damage.
-section 50 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) applies to their situation.
Our investigator and Mr H have corresponded about some  of the points raised  after she 
gave her view on this matter. However,  her overall  view hasnt  changed. Shes explained:
-our service isnt able to comment on the cancellation terms of the furniture order  as 
this isnt something we can look at. 
-Sofology acted  on a non-advised basis and so they only had to make  sure they 
provided enough information  about  the policy. The terms and conditions  are provided 
with the policy schedule which is sent after the sale. However, having acknowledged 
this didnt happen, shed recommended £50 for the inconvenience caused and 
Sofology had agreed to pay this.
-Sofology confirmed  both sets of furniture can be placed on a separate order  as 
happened here - but not the individual seats. 
Ref: DRN68952463This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached  the right outcome here. 
I dont feel that I can reasonably or fairly say that, without  unlimited  cover  for deliberate 
damage under the insurance,  Mrs H wouldnt have bought  the sofas from Sofology. Or that 
the insurance policy was the sole factor in them choosing to spend  £4,000  more  than the 
sofas with washable covers from a different  retailer which  theyve said was the other option.
Had the insurance been so critical to the purchase   in fact, the determining  factor  in 
persuading Mrs H to spend a further  £4,000 as suggested - I think  its reasonable to expect 
they wouldve  asked  to see the policy terms before buying the furniture. And, if the policy 
wasnt available, to have  held off buying  the furniture until it could be provided to them.  
I note Mr and Mrs H say the various discussions they had with staff members  formed a 
verbal agreement  for an overall package of the furniture and insurance together  which 
cannot now be separated. And they bought the furniture  on the basis of these various  
discussions when visiting the showroom before purchase  a verbal agreement.  But I dont 
see things quite the same. And I dont  agree that I can say its a fair or reasonable 
conclusion for me to reach that this is more likely to have been the case  here. I say this 
particularly when taking  into account  the following  matters:
-both Mr and Mrs H are solicitors  by profession  and its reasonable to assume  theyd 
be aware of the:
orisks of trying to piece  together conversations  with different sales  people on a 
number of occasions to form a verbal agreement before entering  into a 
contract to buy two separate products, each with their own written terms and 
conditions; and
oimportance of seeing the written terms and conditions before entering  a 
contract.
-Mr H says they asked the sales people about  the policy and said things like whats 
the catch suggesting they struggled to believe such a term would be included. 
-Mr H refers to Sofologys website and how the insurance is sold on there. It makes 
statements including the following,
Spill once and you see it forever. Those annoying little marks are gone for good. 
How often do you eat and drink on your sofa? Statistically almost all of us do it 
several times a week and for lots of us its the kids too.
Ref: DRN68952464Whats the catch? in this case its as good as it says it is. If you stain  it, 
scratch it, rip it or have  almost any other  accident,  you just need  to give [the 
insurer] a call .
Theres also a link to some more detail about what is and isnt covered. Here it lists 
under exclusions  and limitations,  
any claim for or arising from the following will not be valid:
1.Damage caused  deliberately by any person or child
So I think the key terms of the policy  are clear  accidental damage is covered,  
deliberate damage  isnt (albeit one incident of deliberate damage is covered per 
policy). The information  on the website was available to Mrs H at any time before she 
bought the furniture and statements  selected  from the website have been referred to 
in their complaint  with our service.
Sofology has offered to refund the cost of the insurance to Mrs H and cancel the policy.  And 
theyve agreed to pay the £50 recommended by the investigator. This puts Mrs H back  in the 
financial position she wouldve been in if shed been  sent the terms and conditions after 
buying the furniture and had 14 days to cancel the insurance policy. So I dont think Sofology  
needs to do any more to put things right.
Turning to s50 of the CRA. As our investigator has explained, we take into account the law, 
rules and good practice in the industry. But we also consider all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of the complaint. 
Having said this, chapter  4 of the CRA, which contains s50, relates to contracts for a trader  
to supply a service to a consumer and so I dont  think this is relevant here.
I know Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed with this outcome. It might be that Mrs H decides  
to pursue matters  in court, as has been suggested  by them. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to informally resolve  Mrs Hs dispute with Sofology   can do for her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  Mrs Hs complaint in that 
SOFOLOGY LIMITED  should pay £50 compensation to her for any inconvenience caused 
by the delay in sending  the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6895246