K820x#14complaint
The complainants  are member trustees  of a SSAS (small self administered  scheme).  They 
have complained about losses  suffered on contracts  for difference (CFD)  trading accounts 
managed by Chryson Limited within the SSAS.  
background
The trustees were introduced to Chryson  by an unauthorised firm. Under the introducer  
agreement between the two firms, Chryson  agreed, amongst other  things, to evaluate the 
suitability of the client for any services provided by the company. The agreement also set 
out that Chryson didnt provide advice. The arrangement was for the trustees to open 
accounts with Chryson  and a trading platform.  Chryson would then trade on that account 
under a power of attorney. 
Ive seen various emails  In March about  the proposal. Including  an email  from Chryson  to 
the unauthorised  firm explaining how CFD trading with the platform provider worked and 
enclosing some information about  CFDs.  The unauthorised firm forwarded  the email  to the 
professional trustee  and commented: We are looking to use this product as a sweep up for 
amounts no greater than 20% - 30% of fund value,  adding that it was a regulated  product. 
The professional trustee  replied, saying CFDs  were a permissible investment but he was 
concerned the SSAS shouldnt have any liability to make up any leveraged losses.  He added 
his experience with CFDs  wasnt  positive. Theres a detailed email from Chrysons Chief  
Executive Officer (CEO) saying he understood that apprehension  and going on to set out 
what he said were differences between  Chrysons  and its competitors business  models,  the 
way Chryson traded  and the stocks  it selected.  
In response the professional trustee  said his main concerns were that the SSAS  would have 
no liability  beyond what the client had decided to invest and that the investment was an 
allowable investment for pension schemes, which clearly it was. He said that from what  the 
CEO had said it appeared Chryson  had gone  a long way to try and resolve some of the 
issues that quite  clearly plagued  the CFD industry  for some time adding  if you can make 
good returns for clients then we are always pleased to see clients  portfolios performing  well.
The documentation  Ive seen includes a limited power of attorney, the trading platform  
applications for SSAS clients; Chrysons SSAS  account opening forms; Chrysons  terms of 
business; a brochure entitled Chryson Evolution Strategy; and various account statements.  
Chrysons account opening form said it was its policy to interview  all clients prior to opening 
an account in order to confirm suitability and understanding of risk.
On 14 June 2013 Chryson  confirmed that the trading account had been  set up, allowing 
Chryson to trade in CFDs on behalf  of the SSAS.  Chryson said that the participating 
members wouldnt be permitted to trade  on the account as individuals.  And that the 
individual trustees had each acknowledged their understanding of the nature of CFDs  and 
had accepted the risk classification of the product.  A main  account had been set up with 
three sub accounts in each of the three trustees names. I understand that £25,000  was 
invested in the first sub account in Mr Gs name, nothing was invested  in the second sub 
account and £55,000 in the third account  in Mr Ds name. 
By December 2013 the trustees were  concerned about losses. The unauthorised firm 
obtained details  from Chryson. The value of the first account was -£13,507 and the value  of 
Ref: DRN68680342the third account  was £29,669. Chryson continued trading on both accounts  until 25 March 
2014. Both accounts were then closed at a loss and the power of attorney revoked. 
In July 2018 the trustees representative complained  on their behalf to Chryson saying, 
amongst other things,  that it had failed  to advise them suitably. It referred to previous 
decisions made by this service in support  of its position. 
Chryson rejected  the complaint. In its final response  letter dated  3 October 2018 it said it 
hadnt been obliged to provide advice, and had not done so, as its role was that of 
discretionary manager. Its dealings  had been with the professional trustee. It said it had 
provided clear risk warnings and a clear explanation of the commission structure.  Chryson 
also referred to previous  decisions  wed issued.  
The trustees representative referred  the complaint to us. It said all the trustees  dealings  had 
been with the unauthorised firm. It explained theyd been cautious investors with little 
understanding of investments and they didnt recall any risk warnings. The statements on the 
application forms relating to one of the trustees experience, including  that he had some 
previous dealings in CFDs,  was false. The commission structure had rewarded trading rather  
than success. 
Our adjudicator requested some  further  information  from the various parties involved. 
Chryson told him it believed it had telephoned the trustees  to ensure theyd read the 
brochure and were aware of the risks.  It reiterated  the risks had been made clear and 
pointed out the trustees  had invested  in a further high risk product after closing  the CFD 
accounts.
The adjudicator spoke to the trustee whod  apparently stated he had experience  of trading 
CFDs on the application forms. The trustee said the representatives of the unauthorised firm 
had presented themselves as pension advisers and had said he should invest  in low to 
medium risk investments on account of his age and intended retirement date. He said he 
didnt know what a CFD was and hadnt  been aware  that the investment would be high risk. 
He didnt recall speaking to Chryson in advance. 
The adjudicator issued his assessment. He found that Chryson had a responsibility to 
ensure the accounts would be suitable before agreeing  to manage them and had failed to do 
so. He argued that Chryson couldnt  have relied  on the unauthorised firm having  ensured the 
accounts would be suitable. And he didnt believe they had been suitable. But, if Chryson  
had judged that the accounts would be unsuitable, it would simply have refused to manage  
them. It wouldnt have advised  the trustees about  the SSASs assets in general or about  
alternative investments.  He didnt believe that refusing  to manage the accounts would have 
broken the connection between the trustees  and the unauthorised firm whod probably have 
persuaded the trustees to invest  in alternative high risk investments. On balance, he felt the 
SSAS would  have suffered the loss in any event, and therefore  Chrysons  errors  hadnt 
caused its loss. 
The trustees representative didnt accept the adjudicators view.  In summary it said:
Chryson had a duty to act in the trustees best interests. Chryson  should  have told 
them investing in CFDs was unsuitable and too high risk. Had Chryson told them 
that, theyd have heeded that advice. 
Theres no evidence the trustees wouldve continued to rely on advice from the 
unauthorised firm. Chryson didnt tell them  the investment was high risk or unsuitable 
Ref: DRN68680343and they were unaware of that when  further investments were recommended.  The 
trustees werent sophisticated and had no investment experience.  They couldnt have 
known the investment was high risk and unsuitable.  If Chryson had told them  that 
they wouldnt have  gone on to make  further investments. 
There was an introducer  agreement between Chryson and the unauthorised firm. 
The regulators August  2016 alert says,  if customers are given unsuitable advice by 
an introducer, an authorised firm may be held responsible. The regulator  has 
expressed particular  concern  where pension funds are moved  to high risk or illiquid  
products. Chryson and the unauthorised firm clearly worked  closely  together.  
Chryson was aware the unauthorised firm was controlling the investment choices and 
that was in contravention of the regulations designed to protect retail customers  such  
as the trustees. 
The adjudicator  had failed to consider section 27 of the Financial Services  and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). The agreement for Chryson to trade  CFDs was made  as 
a result of a recommendation by an unauthorised  firm and in breach of the general  
prohibition. The unsuitable investments only came about because  the unauthorised 
firm was recommending them. Under 27(2) of FSMA the trustees are entitled  to 
recover their money and to be compensated for any loss. This service has a duty to 
consider the law. If the ombudsman departs from what  a court would do he or she 
must provide  their reasoning. 
The adjudicator responded. In summary  he said: 
In other  cases hed taken the view that regulated advice against  making  an 
investment promoted by an unauthorised  firm would have been sufficient to have 
persuaded the consumer against. But, in his view,  Chrysons role, and what it should 
have done, was different. 
He didnt agree there was no evidence the trustees would have continued  to rely on 
advice given by the unauthorised firm if Chryson  had advised  against the CFD 
investment. He didnt  think it was necessarily for Chryson to give advice. Had 
Chryson refused  to manage the trustees account, it was possible the trustees would 
have been dissuaded  from investing that money  in similar investments elsewhere. 
But, having invested with Chryson and suffered significant losses, the trustees  
invested again in investments promoted  or recommended by the unauthorised firm 
and suffered further, significant, losses. If that didnt put the trustees  off accepting the 
unauthorised firms  promotions or recommendations, it was difficult  to see that 
Chryson refusing  to manage their money  would have done. And the losses theyd 
suffered in a short period should  have made  the trustees aware  the CFD investment 
wasnt low or medium  risk. 
About  the August  2016 alert, he accepted the regulator would have been concerned  
by the circumstances in this case,  although  the situation wasnt typical  as, in his view,  
Chryson was a manager and not an adviser.  He accepted the two firms  were  working  
closely together and that the unauthorised firm was controlling the wider  investment 
choices. But he maintained the loss would probably still have been suffered anyway. 
He didnt think the link with the unauthorised firm would have been  broken. 
He accepted the unauthorised firm had recommended the Chryson  account  and may 
have carried out a regulated activity. But, as to the enforceability or otherwise of the 
agreement, section 28 of FSMA said the court may allow the agreement to be 
enforced and the money transferred under the agreement to be retained. 
Our approach to redress  was to try to put the consumer in the position he or she 
wouldve been in, if the business  hadnt made an error. Chryson had made an error 
but the trustees would  still have lost the money anyway.
Ref: DRN68680344As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We decide cases on their individual merits. We aim for consistency  but sometimes 
apparently similar cases will be decided differently, depending on the individual 
circumstances and other factors, such as the weight that might  be attached to particular 
evidence. Its very rarely that the circumstances of two cases are identical. Both Chryson  
and the trustees  representative have referred  to previous decisions weve made.  Im 
considering whats  a fair and reasonable decision in the circumstances of this complaint. So 
Im not going  to comment on other  complaints based  on different facts. 
In reaching my conclusions Ive considered  all the information and comments made by the 
trustees and Chryson.  But Im not going  to address each and every point thats been made. 
Ive focused on what I consider  to be the central issues. And Im only looking at what 
Chryson did (or didnt  do). Its clear that other  parties were involved  and, in particular, the 
unauthorised firm. 
The trustees representative has pointed to section  27 of FSMA. To explain,  theres a 
general prohibition  in section 19 of FSMA  it precludes the carrying  on of a regulated 
activity by an unauthorised person. Regulated activities include arranging deals in 
investments and advising on investments. Section 26 of FSMA applies to agreements made 
by the unauthorised person and says that such agreements may be unenforceable. And 
section 27 applies to agreements made  by an authorised  entity through  an unauthorised 
entity and which may make the agreement with the authorised firm unenforceable.  
Section 27 could be relevant here  the trustees  might argue they entered  into an agreement  
with the unauthorised firm to provide  advice  in breach of the general prohibition and as a 
result of which the trustees  then entered into the CFD trading agreement  with Chryson, a 
regulated entity.  Any claim that the trustees might have against the unauthorised firm is 
redundant given  that it has now been wound up. But, if the trustees can say the agreement  
with Chryson is unenforceable, then the trustees may be entitled to recover the money 
transferred under the agreement as well as compensation from Chryson. 
I think, strictly speaking, only a court can decide whether an agreement is unenforceable or 
not. But, in considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of any particular 
case, Im required to take into account,  amongst other things, the relevant law. 
Section 28 of FSMA says the court may allow the agreement to be enforced if it is just and 
equitable in the circumstances of the case or money  paid or transferred under  the 
agreement to be retained. And, in considering that, the court  must  (where the case  arises  as 
a result of section 27) have regard to whether the regulated entity knew that the 
unauthorised firm was, in carrying on the regulated activity, contravening the general 
prohibition. 
I can see some issues. First, its impossible to be certain exactly  what the unauthorised firm 
did and if it carried out a regulated activity in contravention  of the general  prohibition.  
Ref: DRN68680345The trustees representative has pointed to section  21 of FSMA. It provides that a person 
must not, in the course of business,  communicate  an invitation or inducement  to engage  in 
investment activity unless  the promotion  has been made or approved by an authorised 
person or it is exempt  this is known as the financial promotion restriction.  But promoting as 
such isnt a regulated  activity. Although  those  involved in promoting may find themselves 
carrying out regulated  activities   for example, giving advice on investments. 
Mr D has told us that the unauthorised firm presented themselves as pension  advisers.  I can 
see that its very likely  that the unauthorised firm recommended  the various investments, 
including CFD trading,  and so gave investment advice. But its difficult  to say that for sure. 
The unauthorised firm may have been  careful  to limit what  it said,  and any investment 
suggestions, to providing information  only and stopping short of making a recommendation. 
It would be difficult to establish exactly what was said.  And theres nothing in writing to 
confirm that the unauthorised firm gave advice. 
Ive referred above  to an email from the unauthorised  firm to the professional trustee  about  
how the CFD trading  account would be used.  But the unauthorised firm may have simply 
suggested that the trustees might want to consider using a CFD trading account  in that way 
without recommending thats what  the trustees did. The unauthorised firm is now in 
liquidation and is outside our jurisdiction  in any event and we cant investigate exactly what 
that firm did or said. 
Secondly, even  if it could  be concluded  that the unauthorised firm was carrying  on a 
regulated activity (whether giving investment advice  or something else), that doesnt, of 
itself, mean  that a court would conclude that the agreement with Chryson is unenforceable.  
As Ive set out above, a court would  need to take into account whether Chryson knew  the 
unauthorised firm was carrying on a regulated activity  in breach of the general prohibition. I 
dont think its possible to say that must have been the case. 
For example, Chryson may have thought the professional trustee had more  input into the 
trustees decisions. The professional trustee was involved when CFDs were first suggested 
and clearly had some  reservations  about CFDs. Although  those concerns were  mainly 
around making sure that the investment  was allowable  (which it was) and that the SSAS 
wouldnt be liable beyond the amounts invested, his view, initially  at least,  was that CFDs 
didnt generally  produce  good returns.  But Chryson  was able to reassure him about  its 
business model and how the way it traded was different to its rivals.  
Looking at the complaint more generally, CFDs are classified as complex  instruments by the 
regulator. They are geared products and will magnify an investors profits and losses.  This 
means they are high risk and generally  only suitable  for investors  who have sufficient 
experience and knowledge  in order to understand how this type of trading works and, most 
importantly, the high risk of capital loss. And who have the capacity for loss that can result. 
Chryson undertook  to evaluate the suitability  of the client  for any services provided  by 
Chryson. Id expect Chryson,  in looking at if the trustees were suitable clients  for CFDs, to 
obtain information about their knowledge and experience  relevant  to the specific  type of 
designated investment experience (CFDs); their financial situation; and investment 
objectives. 
From what  Ive seen, Chryson  had very limited  information on which to conclude  that CFDs  
were suitable for the trustees. The documentation  says that Chryson will interview all clients. 
It suggests that it would  have  telephoned the trustees. But theres no evidence  that 
Ref: DRN68680346happened. Mr D says he doesnt  recall  any telephone call and Chryson hasnt produced any 
note of any telephone call or details of the further enquiries it made of the trustees to 
ascertain that CFD trading was suitable  and that the trustees  understood the risks the 
investment presented, wanted to take a high degree  of risk and could  afford to do so. Mr D 
also says that what  his application  form said about his experience was wrong. If hed have 
been interviewed hed have had the opportunity to point out that what  was said about his 
experience wasnt  right. 
The trustees werent sophisticated  investors  and had limited  investment experience.  They 
say they were low risk/cautious investors.  Even if they were prepared  to take some risk, from 
what Ive seen of the trustees financial positions, I dont think  they had the capacity for loss 
that could, and did, result from CFD trading. For two of the trustees  the SSAS was their only 
pension provision. The other  trustee  had some, but very limited, other provision. The money 
invested with Chryson  represented 35% of the SSAS fund. I dont  think  thats money  the 
trustees could afford to lose by investing in a product with a high risk of capital loss. 
I recognise that a number  of risk warnings were given. For example,  at the end of the 
Chryson SSAS account opening form, it said that CFDs  were highly geared and investing in 
them might result in additional  liabilities in excess of the funds managed by Chryson. And, 
about risk factors: 
In line with speculative  dealing on highly geared Instruments, profits  are not guaranteed  and 
it Is possible to make substantial losses in the capital Invested. The Chryson program is 
suited for clients who have a wider  portfolio  and should only represent  a small part of an 
overall Investment  strategy. Before you invest, please make sure that you fully understand 
the risks involved.
And the annex  to Chrysons terms of business  dealing with CFDs said:
CFDs carry a high degree  of risk. The gearing  and leverage that is obtainable with CFD 
trading means  that you only need to place a small deposit to commence trading with us 
although this small deposit  may result in large losses  or large  gains. We explain the risks 
involved with CFD trading  in our Investment Risk Warnings, annexed to our Terms of 
Business and which you must read and understand before you enter into any transaction 
with us. The Risk Warning Notice is helpful but does not set out all the risks that may apply 
to you when trading  CFDs  with us. It is your responsibility to ensure that you are fully aware 
of all these risks before you enter into any transaction.
The trustees, if theyd  read the information provided,  including  the documents they signed, 
would or should  have  realised that CFD trading was high risk and could result in substantial  
losses. But pointing out the risks wont make  an otherwise unsuitable investment suitable. 
Even if risk warnings were  given, the trustees werent suitable clients  for CFD trading. On 
that basis I think Chryson should  have rejected the trustees application. 
But thats not an end to the matter. I need to consider what the trustees would have done  if 
Chryson had told them  they werent suitable  clients and it wasnt  prepared  to open an 
account for them to undertake CFD trading. 
The trustees representative has said the trustees  wouldnt  have  invested  in CFDs if Chryson 
had told them it was unsuitable and too high risk. Often Id agree, where  professional advice 
is given not to proceed with a particular course  of action, that the consumer is most likely  to 
heed that advice. But that wont  always be the outcome. It will depend on the circumstances 
of the particular case. 
Ref: DRN68680347Chryson wasnt the trustees  adviser.  So I dont think it was up to Chryson  to advise the 
trustees against CFDs. More that Chryson  should have recognised  the trustees werent  
suitable clients for CFDs and told them that it wasnt prepared to open an account for them. 
But the trustees had been  involved with the unauthorised  firm before it introduced them  to 
Chryson. Ive said I cant conclude, for the purposes  of section 27 of FSMA, that the 
unauthorised firm went as far as giving advice. But whether advice  was given or not, it 
seems that the unauthorised firms influence was considerable.  
I understand the SSAS was arranged  by the unauthorised  firm and it dealt with the 
switches/transfers from the trustees  previous  pension arrangements.  The unauthorised firm 
was also behind other investments made  by the trustees. At about the same time as the 
CFD accounts were being set up, a sum representing about half of the SSAS assets  were  
invested in an unregulated overseas property  scheme, a resort  development in Turkey. And 
there was a further investment (representing  about one tenth of the SSAS assets)  in Virgen 
(Guernsey) Limited, a Guernsey-incorporated Chia seed importer (subsequently liquidated in 
February 2017). And, in 2014, after the CFD trading  accounts had been  closed earlier  that 
year, £30,000 was invested in a Non Standard  Foreign Exchange  account.  
I think its especially significant that, after the CFD accounts had suffered significant losses,  
the trustees  continued  to allow themselves to be guided by the unauthorised firm. Id have 
thought, even if the trustees had believed  that CFDs were low risk, the extent of the losses 
theyd incurred would have led them to question that and whether to continue  their 
relationship with the unauthorised firm. I agree with the adjudicator  that its difficult to see 
what else might have  convinced the trustees that continuing to deal with the unauthorised 
firm might be inadvisable. I think  what happened  is fairly compelling evidence that the link 
with the unauthorised firm wouldnt have been broken even if Chryson had acted differently.  
I accept the trustees  may not have understood that the firm was unauthorised and the 
significance of that. But, even if dealing with a regulated adviser,  Id expect a client,  who 
wants low risk or cautious investments, to question the competency of the (regulated) 
adviser in the face of substantial capital  losses. 
Here the CFD account made significant losses. I think that would or should have alerted the 
trustees to the fact that trading in CFDs  was high risk and could bring about significant 
losses and higher than would be expected with more conventional investments. Even if the 
trustees entered into CFD trading believing that it was a low risk investment, their actual 
experience and their losses  didnt  bear that out.  
On balance, given  the way that things were  driven  by the unauthorised firm and the fact that 
suffering substantial losses wasnt enough  to persuade the trustees to terminate their 
relationship with that firm, I think the trustees  would  probably have found  a way to engage  in 
CFD trading  through  another business if Chryson had said it wasnt prepared to set up an 
account for them. Or, perhaps more accurately, the unauthorised firm would have put the 
trustees in touch with another business who was prepared to take the trustees on as clients. 
And, even  if the idea of investing in CFDs was abandoned, I think  its likely it wouldve been 
replaced by another high risk investment, which would most likely  have  resulted  in losses 
too.  
Ref: DRN68680348I have considerable  sympathy for the trustees. Theyve lost substantial  sums. But in the 
circumstances of this particular complaint, Im unable to say that Chrysons actions caused 
the trustees losses. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2021. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6868034