K822xcomplaint 
Mr C has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of his pet insurance policy each  year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr C took out, will continue  to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr C. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mr C about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay him £500  compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C has told us hes not happy with the offer RSA has made as hes paid out significantly 
more than this in premiums over the life of the policy.  But the nature of insurance is that 
cover is provided for things that may not happen, and so customers may end up paying  for 
cover that they didnt  use. And just because a customer has paid out more in premiums than 
theyve received in claims doesnt  mean  that the insurance was mis-sold.
Businesses are also entitled  to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover  they 
provide, and I dont  have  the power to tell a business what  its insurance should  cost. I would 
be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. 
So I cant say that the cost of Mr Cs policy  was too high or that he should have been  
charged less for it.
What RSA did wrong was to not give Mr C the information he needed to understand the 
longer-term costs of the policy. And the compensation  RSA has offered recognises that 
better information about the longer-term costs  could have avoided some  of the upset and 
distress Mr C has experienced. It is a significant award and I think it fairly compensates Mr C 
for the trouble and upset  hes been  caused.
Ref: DRN67982192my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr C £500  compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I dont  require  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6798219