K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr H and Ms M say Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold them  the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr H and Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr H and Ms M, 
so Ill explain my reasons  why. 
Mr H and Ms M say that they were made to think that the MPPI  was compulsory - and that 
they thought they had to have the policy to get the mortgage. They  say that when they the 
cancelled the policy when they realised  they could. 
I wasnt there at the time, so I cant be sure what was discussed  and as the policy  was sold 
such a long time ago, theres no paperwork available.  But I dont find this unusual  and 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. In order for me to uphold 
Mr H and Ms Ms complaint  in this area, Id have to think that it was more likely that BoS 
didnt present the policy as optional. But as this event happened so long ago and as theres 
no documentary evidence  to support  either partys position, I have to conclude  that 
Mr H and Ms Ms account is only as likely not more likely. So on balance I cannot safely  
conclude that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that they werent given a choice to 
take PPI.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr H and Ms M so it had to check  that the MPPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI  cover 
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover  while they were both entitled to sick pay, 
the MPPI  couldve paid out on top of, and for longer  than their existing  cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H and Ms M about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the MPPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr H and Ms M.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr H and Ms M because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H and Ms M about that. Because  BoS didnt tell 
Mr H and Ms M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN65972982Ive thought about everything Mr H and Ms M has said - including  what  theyve said about 
taking legal advice  about the optionality of the MPPI.  But ours is an informal service   and as 
Ive explained  above, I cant uphold their complaint  for this reason.
Ive also noted  that Ms M has raised  that there have been some  administration errors with 
the names on the policy  she wonders if this wouldve affected use of the policy.  I cant  say 
for certain   but the error seems  to be minor  and easily correctable as a genuine  mistake.  
Ms M did attempt to make a redundancy claim on the policy in 2003 which wasnt paid  but 
this was due to required paperwork not being returned, not any issues with the 
administration of the policy. So I cant say that this error has caused  any loss to Ms M. 
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr H and Ms M.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr H and Ms M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6597298