K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Insight Financial Associates Limited (Insight) gave him inappropriate 
advice to transfer two pension  funds  into a new plan in 2012.
background
Mr R held two pension  plans in 2012 with providers that I will call L and C. The combined 
transfer value  of those two plans at that time was approximately  £50,000. Both plans were 
invested in with profits type investments, but the plan held with C also contained  additional 
benefits including a guaranteed annuity  rate and a guaranteed minimum fund value.
Mr R contacted Insight  in early 2012 as he was concerned about the returns  he was 
receiving from the two plans. In particular Insight noted that hed said that he was particularly 
concerned by the poor recent performance  of the plan held with C, and the erosion of the 
value of his plan with L caused by the charges he was paying.
Insight recommended that Mr R transfer  both his pension plans into what it describes as a 
hybrid SIPP (self-invested pension plan). It then further advised  that the transferred funds be 
invested into structured  products,  though  the exact details of these would be determined  
once the funds had been moved to the new provider.
Mr R accepted Insights  recommendations and the funds from his two pension  plans were 
transferred to the new provider later that year. I note that there  appear  to have been some  
delays in completing Mr Rs investment into the structured products. So Insight, as a gesture 
of goodwill,  paid Mr R some compensation  to reflect the investment returns he had lost. And 
in 2014 Insight stopped  receiving any future on-going advice fees from Mr Rs new 
investment.
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the advice 
Insight had given  to Mr R about transferring his pension plans had been inappropriate. And 
she thought that if Mr R hadnt received  that advice it would have been  unlikely  that he would 
have moved his two pension  funds.  So she asked Insight to pay Mr R some compensation.
Insight didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr R accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr R and by Insight. As these do not always concur  I have needed to make  my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence  we do 
have, and the surrounding circumstances,  to help me decide what  I think is more likely to 
have happened, or what should  have happened.
Ref: DRN66040352At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
In providing advice to Mr R, Insight needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that the 
recommendation it gave  was suitable  for his circumstances, or if in part it was unsuitable, 
clearly drawing this to his attention.
The pension plan that Mr R held with C included valuable defined  benefits. It offered him the 
opportunity to purchase an annuity at a specified rate  a rate that was better than those 
now generally available on the open  market. And it also guaranteed  that his pension plan 
would reach  a minimum value. Although I accept that these benefits might not have been 
available to Mr R until he reached  65 years of age I think that any recommendation that 
Insight gave to Mr R needed to take care to ensure these benefits  were fully considered.
One of the main complaint points  that Mr R has made is that the cost of the SIPP,  given the 
amount he was transferring, was disproportionate.  And I have noted  that in its suitability 
document Insight  noted that it wouldnt normally recommend a SIPP for a fund value of less 
than £75,000.  But I have also considered what Insight  says about the product recommended 
to Mr R being a hybrid  SIPP with lower  charges  than a normal  SIPP but allowing greater 
investment flexibility than a personal pension.
There were a number of factors that I think Insight needed to consider when reviewing 
Mr Rs situation. It appears from the information it gathered that Mr R was keen to be able to 
access a lump sum from his pension  when he reached 55 years  of age. That was something 
he would  be able to do following Insights  recommendation,  but not something available  to 
him with his original  pension plans. So that might  have  given some support to Insights 
recommendation.
But at the time the recommendation was made, Mr R was only 49 years of age. So I think 
that should have led to Insight giving less weight to what  might happen some six years later. 
Instead I think it should have concentrated on what seems to be Mr Rs primary reason for 
engaging the firm  that his existing pension plans  were  not providing  him with sufficient 
investment growth.  And it seems part of the reason for that was the levels  of charges  that he 
was paying.
I can see that in its suitability report Insight did consider the relative  levels of charges 
between the old and new providers. But it seems it did that on the assumption  that Mr Rs 
new pension  investments would be held in cash.  Whilst  that was the initial plan I think it was 
clear that was only an interim position and so the ultimate levels  of charges  that needed to 
be considered  were those  after the funds had been  reinvested. I cant see that was done, 
and so I think the analysis supporting the transfer  was lacking in that regard.
I think it has always been clear that in making this sort of recommendation the default 
position, particularly  where the original pension plan offers  valuable  guaranteed benefits, 
should be to not make any changes.  And so I think it was incumbent  on Insight to ensure 
that the new arrangement offered clear advantages to Mr R having considered all his 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN66040353I havent seen  enough to make me conclude  that the analysis that Insight performed showed  
clear benefits to Mr R transferring his pension arrangements. He incurred a significant 
encashment penalty  (approximately 1.5%) in moving  his funds from L. And he lost two 
guaranteed benefits in transferring his pension from C. Im not persuaded that the on-going  
costs that Mr R needed to pay, after his funds had been reinvested, would have been 
significantly less than he was paying  previously.
So on balance I dont  think that the recommendation Insight gave to Mr R was appropriate 
considering his circumstances. I think Insight needs  to take steps  to put things right.
putting things right
When resolving a complaint such as this, my aim is to put Mr R back  into the position he 
wouldve been in, had he received suitable  advice. In my view, it seems likely that Mr R 
wouldnt have transferred his existing pensions  into a SIPP  had he not been  advised to do 
so. I have decided  that any redress should  be based  on the notional values of Mr Rs 
pension policies with L and C had they remained in the same funds. As a significant  charge 
was incurred on transfer, I believe this calculation should be based on the original fund value 
rather than the transfer  value.
To put things right, Insight  should;
(1)Determine the notional transfer value  of the plan with L, as at the date of calculation,  on 
the basis that the policy  was not transferred.
(2)Determine the adjusted notional transfer value of the plan with C, assuming  it was not 
transferred, and increase it by the ratio of GAR/CAR, where GAR is the guaranteed 
annuity rate that would have applied to Mr Rs previous plan, and the CAR  is a current 
annuity rate available  on the same basis with a competitive annuity provider.
(3)Determine the total notional transfer  value as at the date of calculation  as (1) + (2).
(4)Obtain the actual transfer value of the new plan as at the date of calculation.
(5)Determine any loss as at the date of calculation as (3)-(4).
Should this calculation show Mr R has suffered a loss, Insight should  pay the amount in (5) 
into a pension arrangement for Mr R. The payment  should allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief  and should take account of any payments and charges previously 
refunded to Mr R. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications then 
the loss in (5) should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump  sum after making a deduction of 
15%. The deduction of 15% is applied as the redress would otherwise have been used to 
provide pension benefits, 25% of which would be tax free and the rest would have been  
taxed according to Mr Rs likely  tax paying status  in retirement  presumed to be 20%. And 
so the 15% deduction adequately  reflects this.
I also consider that Mr R has suffered trouble and upset because  of the inappropriate advice 
given. And he will suffer further inconvenience  in deciding whether he needs to revise his 
future pension arrangements. Therefore,  I consider  that Insight  should  pay Mr R an 
additional £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  he has been caused.
Ref: DRN66040354my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Insight Financial Associates 
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6604035