K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Close Brothers  Limited (Close  Brothers) have rejected a claim he 
made to them  to provide a refund for furniture he says was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Rs complaint but explained  that I was expecting to order  a different redress  than our 
investigator had suggested. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr R has been supported by his partner in this claim but as the finance agreement  is in his 
sole name Ill refer to Mr R throughout this decision.
Mr R bought a sofa set and other  items from a retailer Ill call A. He funded  the deal through 
a point of sale loan provided  by Close Brothers.
But when he received the goods in August 2018 he was disappointed with the quality of the 
sofa and a chair. He complained to A about  the workmanship and they eventually  came to 
take a look. They took the single chair away but didnt take away  the sofa and Mr R wasnt  
able to engage them any further in resolving the issue  for him.
He complained to Close  Brothers  but they rejected his claim. They  noted  that the retailer had 
offered a £350  rug in compensation; that the sofa was made to measure and they didnt  
think there was any evidence that the furniture was faulty anyway.
So Mr R referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
thought that the business should be given a chance  to assess the quality of the sofa before 
a decision could be made on whether it was acceptable or not. He understood that there was 
another chair  and he thought they should also assess that. He understood that the supplier 
had been prepared to replace the chair  but whilst Mr R had initially  been prepared  to accept 
a replacement hed now changed his mind.  He didnt think that was reasonable and he noted 
that the new chair  had now been sourced. So he suggested that Mr R should  accept  it.
Close Brothers didnt  respond  to the investigators  findings so the case has been referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I currently agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld but the redress 
Im suggesting is different.  Please let me explain.
Theres been a lack of evidence provided  by Mr R and by Close  Brothers in this complaint. 
For instance, the contract hasnt been provided and theres little evidence of what Mr R 
agreed with A. Where  the information  Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory,  I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN63487022Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a point of 
sale loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover  the money paid through a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  
circumstances, the borrower  under a credit  agreement  has a like right to claim against the 
credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. So this is the basis  upon  which  Mr Rs claim to Close 
Brothers, that his furniture  was not of satisfactory quality and his contract has been 
breached, can be made.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr R made  a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant  law says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. It also says:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
The correspondence Ive seen suggests  that Mr R complained about  the quality of the 
furniture within six months. At the moment I only have his testimony that the chair  and sofa 
are unsatisfactory. He says the cushions  sag. The investigator asked Close  Brothers to 
arrange an independent inspection by an expert to clarify whether there were any defects 
but they refused. 
With only Mr Rs testimony to go on, the weight of evidence therefore suggests that there is 
a problem with the furniture and the law would therefore allow Close  Brothers one chance to 
repair it or replace  it but they dont  need  to provide a refund at this point.
A have now sourced  a new chair and I think from the evidence provided that was likely  to 
have been what  Mr R initially requested. It would not be fair to suggest a different course  of 
action with regard  to the chair. 
A didnt replace  the sofa because  it was a made to measure item.  I can see their problem 
with this as it would be quite costly to replace it and difficult  to resell the apparently bespoke 
item. But that doesnt prevent Mr R from exercising his rights if the product was 
unacceptable. 
In the absence of evidence  that the sofa is of an acceptable standard  it would  be fair to ask 
Close Brothers to take the same action that has been taken with the chair and to replace it 
too. 
As the evidence currently suggests the sofa is of unsatisfactory quality it would seem  that 
Ref: DRN63487023Mr R has had impaired use of it. In those circumstances I think hes not been getting the 
benefit of the product hes been paying  for and Im expecting to ask Close Brothers to pay 
him some compensation for that. I think, in the circumstances, they should pay £200.
my provisional decision
Im currently  expecting to tell Close Brothers  Limited  to:
replace the sofa and the chair thats  already been  removed
pay Mr R £200 to compensate him for the impaired use hes had from the sofa 
currently in his possession.
remove any adverse reports that may have been made to Mr Rs credit file in relation 
to this issue
my findings
Close Brothers didnt  respond  to my provisional decision but Mr R did. He didnt think  £200  
was sufficient compensation. 
So Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R doesnt have  to accept my decision and he may decide  to pursue his claim through the 
courts. But, in the circumstances, Im persuaded that £200 is sufficient to compensate him 
for the impaired use hes had. My provisional decision therefore remains unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Close Brothers 
Limited to:
replace the sofa and the chair thats  already been  removed
pay Mr R £200 to compensate him for the impaired use hes had from the sofa 
currently in his possession.
remove any adverse reports that may have been made to Mr Rs credit file in relation 
to this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6348702