K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Insurance  Factory  Ltd provided  poor service  to him in administering the 
specialist motor insurance policy he bought through it.
background 
Mr W took out a policy with insurer M on 8 December 2017 through Insurance Factory.  On 
29 December 2017 insurer M told Insurance Factory that in validating  Mr Ws policy it had 
found a claim hed made in 2017 that he hadnt  mentioned. It told Insurance Factory to apply  
an extra  premium due to the claim. 
Mr W didnt agree to the increase in premium.  He said hed given Insurance Factory  the right 
information. And he asked  it to let him have  quotes  from other insurers. After giving Mr W 
time to consider  his options,  the insurer told Insurance Factory  to charge the extra premium. 
Mr W made a complaint. Insurance Factory  allowed  further time for Mr W to pay the sum 
due. As he didnt, it issued a cancellation  notice on behalf of the insurer on 12 April 2018. 
Mr W made a further complaint and said the cancellation charges were  wrong.  
In its final response letter  to Mr W, Insurance Factory explained the cancellation  charges in 
detail. It said it had made them clear during the call in which the policy was set up. It said it 
had given Mr W three new quotes,  as requested, so he could consider getting  cover 
elsewhere. It said it had no control over insurer Ms premiums. Insurance Factory  had told 
Mr W previously that during the policy inception call, its advisor asked him about his claims 
history. It said Mr W didnt  mention  one of the two claims  hed had. Insurance  Factory said it 
was the second claim  that led the insurer to increase the premium and remove  Mr Ws 
protected no claims discount (NCD).  
Our investigator said he could only address the actions  of the broker in its role of carrying  
out the insurers instructions. He said insurer M made the decision to charge an extra  
premium, and to cancel the policy  if Mr W didnt pay it. In his view, Insurance Factory gave 
Mr W a reasonable length of time to pay before the policy was cancelled. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. My provisional 
findings were as follows:
Ive listened to the call during which Mr W agreed to buy insurer  Ms policy. The advisor 
asked whether any driver on the policy had had an accident or made a claim in the last five 
years, regardless of fault. Mr W accepted that hed made a claim in August 2016. But he 
didnt mention another claim hed made in 2017.  Mr W later said hed forgotten about the 
incident. He also thought  his previous  insurer  may have recorded it in error.  But based on 
what Mr W told it, I dont  think Insurance Factory was at fault in recording only one claim. 
The insurer  applied an extra premium due to the second claim. It said Mr Ws protected  NCD 
couldnt remain in place, as hed had two claims in the last five years. Insurance  Factory  
carried out the insurers instructions by applying the extra premium. I think in doing so it 
allowed Mr W a reasonable  amount of time to consider his options and to discuss the 
situation with his previous insurer. So I think it acted reasonably. 
Mr W says Insurance Factory didnt provide quotes  to him for policies with other  insurers,  as 
hed requested. Insurance Factorys computerised  records show it checked its panel of 
insurers on 31 January  2018 and got three quotes.  The records  show an advisor  called 
Ref: DRN61274422Mr W that day and left a voicemail message for him. They also show  that a letter confirming  
the three quotes  was sent to Mr W on 1 February 2018. It seems  Mr W didnt receive  it, as 
theres a note showing he called on 12 February 2018 to complain about that. The records  
show that Insurance Factory re-sent the letter to Mr W that day. The next day he asked for 
hard copies  of the three quotes.  Insurer M has given us copies of the letters  containing the 
quotes that it sent to Mr W that day. So in my view the evidence  doesnt support Mr Ws 
belief that Insurance Factory failed to seek or provide  quotes  to him. 
I think Mr Ws complaint  to us shows he thinks it was part of Insurance Factorys role to 
approach his former insurer  to try to correct any error it might  have  made. But I think  only 
Mr W could have disputed his recorded driving record  with his previous insurer.  Mr W seems 
to think Insurance  Factory  should also have explained the situation as he saw it to the 
market. But other insurers would have based their quotes on the record created by Mr Ws 
previous insurer. Only that insurer could have changed the record.  And it would only have 
done so had it accepted  Mr Ws view that two claims shouldnt have been recorded against  
him. So I dont think  Insurance Factory was at fault in terms of these issues.
Insurance Factory  delayed the cancellation process  in order to give Mr W time to discuss the 
situation with this service,  as well as with his previous insurer. I think it explained what the 
extra premium was for. It also set out the cancellation charges and sent the relevant 
cancellation letters to him. I dont think there was anything unreasonable in the way 
Insurance Factory  carried out any of these tasks.  But I can see why Mr W was confused  
about the sum charged at cancellation. He thought he was due a refund. Hed paid the full 
amount for the policy at the outset and had only been insured for a few days. But he didnt 
know that insurer M charged short-term  rates on early cancellation. That meant  Mr W was 
asked to pay far more  than for just the days hed been insured. 
The recording of the sales call shows Insurance Factorys advisor  didnt mention short-term  
rates when he ran through  the policys cancellation terms. He said after the 14-day cooling-
off period, Mr W would  be charged  a cancellation  fee of £50. He said the insurers 
cancellation rules  would  apply. He said Insurance Factory would retain  its £70 arrangement 
fee and that there would be no refund on any extra products Mr W had bought.  He said 
discounts applied  at the start (in this case,  £50) would be deducted pro-rata.
In my opinion, had the advisor told Mr W about insurer Ms cancellation rules, he may not 
have bought the policy. Many insurers dont charge short-term rates, so he may have  asked 
for other quotes.  Or he may still have bought the policy,  but when the extra  premium  was 
charged he may not have cancelled it early. 
The policy documents were sent to Mr W by email and by post straight away,  as cover  
started that day. The short-term rates werent  referred to in Insurance  Factorys  terms of 
business. The document only said that practices  vary between insurers  and advised 
consumers to check their policy documents. I dont think  that was enough.  Insurer  Ms 
key facts document didnt refer to the short-term rates  either. Mr W would have had to get to 
page 14 of the policy  document before he saw the full details of the cancellation charges. So 
I think it was reasonable  for him to expect that hed be charged pro-rata.
We think as short-term rates can have  a significant effect on a consumer, they should be 
brought to a consumers attention at the point  of sale. Insurance Factory didnt mention them 
to Mr W then. In my opinion they werent  sufficiently highlighted afterwards. Mr W was asked 
to pay more than he expected to pay as a result  of the short-term  rates.  So I think 
Ref: DRN61274423Insurance Factory  should pay the difference between the sum he would have  paid for time 
on cover  and the sum he was required to pay based  on the short-term rates. 
I think Insurance Factory  acted reasonably  in the way it administered  Mr Ws policy  apart 
from the lack of details  about the short-term  rates.  But I think  Mr W was put to some trouble 
in trying to find out why he wasnt due a refund. So in my opinion it would also be reasonable 
for Insurance Factory to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience and upset he faced.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Insurance Factory accepted it. Mr W 
said he thought  the charge of £153 he was being  pursued  for should be waived. He said 
hed accept the decision if that was done and he was paid the proposed £100 compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for Insurance Factory to work out the exact  sum Mr W was overcharged  for his insurance 
due to the application of the insurers short-term rates.  Paying the difference between what 
he was charged and what he should  have  paid for the days  he was covered by the insurance 
policy will put him back in the position he should have been in. I think the sum is likely to be 
at least £153.  I think  it would be fair and reasonable for Insurance  Factory to adjust the sum 
payable by Mr W, make the correct refund and pay Mr M £100  compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Insurance  Factory  Ltd to do the 
following: 
Pay the difference between the sum Mr W would  have paid for cover  pro-rata and the 
sum the insurer required him to pay based on its short term rates
Pay Mr W £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6127442