K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that BUPA Insurance Limited has refused to cover their sons 
treatment under a private medical insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs Bs son (who  Ill call Master  B) was recommended treatment for his depression 
by way of repetitive transcranial magnetic  stimulation  (rTMS).
Mr and Mrs B asked  BUPA if it would cover this treatment, but BUPA  refused.  It thought  the 
treatment would only provide temporary relief of Master Bs symptoms,  and was therefore 
excluded under the policy. Unhappy  with this, Mr and Mrs B brought  a complaint to this 
service. They paid for their son to have the treatment. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He didnt think  BUPA  had shown 
the main purpose  or effect of the treatment  was to provide temporary relief of symptoms.  He 
recommended BUPA  reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the cost of the treatment,  plus interest.
BUPA didnt  agree with our investigators  recommendations, so the matters been passed to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
BUPA turned  down the claim by relying  on the following exclusion:
Temporary relief of symptoms
We do not pay for treatment, the main purpose or effect of which is to provide
temporary relief of symptoms or which is for the ongoing management of a condition".
BUPA has referred  to guidance issued by the National Institute of Health and Care 
Excellence (NICE) about rTMS. BUPA says that as NICE is very clear  rTMS  may offer short-
term relief,  it considers the treatment falls under the above exclusion.  It also says that whilst 
NICE broadly supports  the safety of rTMS,  the guidance raised some concerns for BUPA  
about its long-term effectiveness. In particular, its referred to the following comments from 
NICE:
1.2 During the consent process, clinicians  should, in particular, inform  patients about the 
other treatment options available,  and make sure that patients understand the possibility the 
procedure may not give them benefit.
1.3 NICE  encourages publication  of further evidence  on patient selection, details of the 
precise type and regime of stimulation  used,  the use of maintenance treatment and long-
term outcomes.
Ive looked at the NICE guidance  on rTMS  that was published in December 2015. It says the 
evidence on its efficacy in the short -term is adequate. It also says that the treatment  is safe 
enough and works well enough for use in the NHS.  And that generally, the studies showed  
Ref: DRN65896682that the treatment  improved depression  symptoms  and quality of life. In some cases, it 
allowed patients to stop taking antidepressants.  The points 1.2 and 1.3 Ive quoted  above  
are also made. 
Whilst its clear  that NICE thinks the effectiveness of rTMS in providing  short-term relief is 
adequate, it seems it hasnt yet made  a decision on the effectiveness of the treatment in the 
longer term. Its therefore encouraging publication of further  evidence,  and presumably itll 
update its guidance in due course.  But that doesnt necessarily mean  rTMS isnt effective in 
the longer term,  it just means there isnt enough  evidence at the moment for NICE to make  a 
decision about this. 
However, Master Bs treating consultant psychiatrist  (Dr Z) has provided  information from his 
clinic which shows that over 60% of patients  have made a full recovery.
Therefore, I dont think it can be said that the main purpose or effect of rTMS is to 
temporarily relieve someones  symptoms of depression, and that once the effect of the 
treatment has worn  off, that person will go back to experiencing the same symptoms of 
depression. Whilst I appreciate that could potentially  happen, the same could probably be 
said for all mental health treatment. However,  Dr Z has shown  that in his clinic the full 
recovery rate for patients using rTMS is over 60%. 
Interestingly, Mr and Mrs B make  the point  that whilst they arent medical experts,  their sons 
condition dramatically improved in a matter of weeks after having the treatment, and his 
depression can no longer  be detected.  I understand that for maintenance purposes he has 
cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). 
I appreciate BUPA doesnt wish to cover  treatment where the symptoms of a medical  
condition are only temporarily relieved by that treatment. But I dont think thats  the case 
here. Patients can recover after having  rTMS treatment, so I dont agree that the main 
purpose or effect  of rTMS is to temporarily relieve someones symptoms  of depression.  
That being  the case, I dont think it was reasonable for BUPA to rely on the exclusion to turn 
down the claim. 
BUPA also says there hasnt been  enough research into the ethics  of rTMS treatment. But I 
think it would  be highly  unlikely for NICE to approve  the use of unethical  treatment on the 
NHS. 
In BUPAs correspondence with us, it also said it doesnt think  rTMS  meets its policy  
definition of eligible  treatment. It says that as rTMS  isnt a generally accepted  medical 
standard and isnt yet demonstrated to be effective in improving health outcomes, it doesnt 
meet its definition of eligible treatment. The policy defines this as:
are consistent with generally accepted  standards of medical  practice and 
representative of best practices  in the medical  profession in the UK
are clinically appropriate  in terms of type, frequency,  extent,  duration  and the facility  
or location where the services  are provided
are demonstrated through scientific evidence to be effective in improving health 
outcomes, and 
are not provided  or used primarily for the expediency of you or your consultant or 
other healthcare  professional
and the treatment, services or charges are not excluded  under your benefits.
Ref: DRN65896683BUPA has referred  to matrix tables from NHS Scotland  which  it says shows that the 
accepted and recommended standard treatment for depression is behavioural therapy, 
unlike rTMS that helps  temporarily with symptoms in a clinical setting and doesnt aim to 
cure. 
Unfortunately, the link that BUPA  has provided  us to the matrix tables no longer works.  
However, Ive found some  matrix tables from NHS Scotland (from 2014) which do indeed  
show that the recommended treatment for depression is behavioural therapy (as well as 
other types of therapy).  However, my understanding is that rTMS is often used when other  
treatment for depression  hasnt worked,  so this information isnt particularly relevant. 
Also, as the investigator has pointed out, the matrix tables were updated in 2014, however 
the NICE  guidance  on rTMS wasnt published until December  2015. And the matrix tables 
Ive looked at dont say that rTMS only helps temporarily with symptoms in a clinical setting 
and doesnt aim to cure. I therefore assume thats BUPAs own opinion, rather  than a 
published statement  by NHS Scotland. 
NICE has said that generally, studies showed  rTMS treatment improved depression  
symptoms and quality  of life. Its therefore approved the use of rTMS in the NHS (I 
understand there are at least two NHS  trusts who offer the treatment). I therefore  dont  agree  
with BUPA  that it hasnt yet been demonstrated that rTMS improves  health outcomes. I dont 
think BUPA  has shown that rTMS  doesnt meet its definition of eligible treatment.
BUPA says that Dr Z regularly exceeds  the number of treatment sessions described by 
NICE. In response to this, Dr Z has provided information from his clinic  which  shows that his 
clinics remission  rate of just over 60% is achieved on average based on treatment being 
given for five sessions  per week, over a three to four week  period. I see NICE guidelines say 
that treatment usually comprises daily sessions, typically for two to six weeks. 
Dr Z also makes the point that NICE says professionals and practitioners are expected to 
take its guidelines into account,  but the guidelines  dont override the responsibility to make 
decisions appropriate to the circumstances of the individual. He says that he can therefore 
deviate from the guidelines and use his clinical judgment if its in the best interest of the 
patient. I think this adequately  addresses  BUPAs concerns about the number of treatment 
sessions Dr Z recommends. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA  Insurance  Limited to accept 
the claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms. It should  reimburse  Mr and Mrs B 
as appropriate  for the cost of the rTMS treatment. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% 
simple from the date each  invoice was paid to the date of settlement*.  
Ref: DRN65896684Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2019. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If BUPA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs B a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6589668