K822xComplaint
Ms T has complained that items held by Speedloan Finance Limited (Speedloan) as 
security for two loans  were destroyed without her permission.
Background 
Ms T took out two pawnbroking agreements with Speedloan.  Under  the agreements 
Speedloan provided  Ms T with two loans. The first loan was secured on a diamond ring and 
the second was secured on two gold bracelets,  a gold pendant  and another  ring. The items 
were due to be returned to Ms T on repayment of the loans. But if Ms T defaulted on the 
loans, Speedloan would have the right to sell or scrap the items to cover  the debts.
In November 2017 Speedloan says it sent Ms Ts items to auction. As the items didnt sell, 
Speedloan says the items were scrapped for their gold. Speedloan says this was a mistake 
due to a change in their computer system.  Speedloan informed Ms T about  the mistake  in 
April 2018 and apologised. It offered her £1,133.64; which was based on the scrap  value of 
the gold, the interest Ms T had paid on the loan plus an amount for the trouble and upset  
caused. Ms T was unhappy with this, as the diamond ring had been  valued at £3,000 in 
2003 and shed been told by another jeweller  it was worth around £7,000 now.
Speedloan agreed  to reconsider their offer, but Ms T referred her complaint to our service. 
She advised she was also suspicious of Speedloans explanation about what happened to 
her diamond  ring  she didnt think it likely  that such a valuable item had been  scrapped.
The investigator upheld  Ms Ts complaint. After  considering some new valuations provided 
by Ms T and Speedloan, he believed a fair valuation of the diamond ring was £5,400. He 
also thought a fair valuation of the remaining  items was £840. So, he recommended  
Speedloan should pay a total of £6,240 for the jewellery and £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused. He also thought  Speedloan should refund Ms T all interest and charges applied 
under agreements, not including the original amounts borrowed. The investigator  said he 
couldnt comment on Ms Ts belief about what had happened to the items.
Ms T accepted the investigators findings.  But Speedloan didnt agree. It thought a fairer 
valuation of the diamond ring was £3,000. This was because it was only liable to pay the 
value of the items at the time they were destroyed and the valuations provided were  based 
on the cost to replace the ring as new, including the jewellers retail uplift. Speedloan didnt 
dispute the other recommendations  made.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
It isnt in dispute that Ms Ts items were scrapped by mistake.  Speedloan accepts the 
valuation of the two gold bracelets, gold pendant  and ring, and has agreed to pay £200  
compensation and to refund the charges associated with the loan. So the only matter  for me 
to decide is what  represents fair compensation for the loss of the diamond ring.
Ref: DRN62060682The terms of the agreements that Ms T signed  set out that:
2. Extent of duty of care to be exercised  by us and of our liability
b) If the Property or any part of it is lost while it is in our personal physical control  and 
possession before the redemption date shown in the Notice to the Borrower on the 
front of this agreement  (but not afterwards)  we will pay you our reasonable estimate 
of the lost Propertys value at the time of its loss as compensation
As per the above terms, the compensation should  be based on the value of the item at the 
time of its loss. But as Speedloan didnt undertake a valuation of the items when it took 
possession of them, its difficult to ascertain  an exact value  of the diamond ring when it was 
destroyed. The only appraisal of the actual  ring took place in 2003, which valued it at £3,000. 
I dont think its reasonable to base the compensation on this valuation  because it was 
almost 15 years out of date when the ring was destroyed.
Both Speedloan and Ms T have  attempted to obtain  a valuation of this ring, taking into 
account the exact specifications noted  in the 2003 valuation. But without sight  of the ring, the 
jewellers approached  have  only been  able to say what  it would cost to replace the ring today 
based on those  specifications. It appears  Speedloan also attempted  to locate a ring through 
the second-hand  market  but was unable to find anything similar to Ms Ts ring to base a 
valuation on. In the absence of an estimate of the cost to replace the ring second-hand,  
I think its fair to base compensation on the cost of replacing the ring as new.
A range of estimates  have  been  provided;  estimates  of £3,740,  £4,250, £5,400 provided by 
jewellers approached  by Speedloan and estimates of £5,610 and £8,200  provided  by 
jewellers approached  by Ms T. Overall,  I think its fair to base the compensation on an 
average of these estimates, which is more or less equal to the £5,400 estimate.  So, I think 
its reasonable for Speedloan to pay Ms T £5,400 as compensation for the loss of her 
diamond ring.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
To settle  the matter, Speedloan Finance Limited should pay Ms T £6,240 in total for the loss 
of her jewellery and £200 for the trouble and upset caused. It should also refund any 
charges or interest applied under the loan agreements, not including the original amounts 
borrowed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6206068