K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Inter Partner  Assistance  SA (IPA) turned down a claim made 
on their travel insurance policy (the policy).  
background
For many  years Mr and Mrs P had the benefit of an annual travel insurance,  as part of a 
packaged bank  account, underwritten by IPA. Under the policy theyre required to make 
medical declarations  in certain circumstances and at particular  times   such  as annually and 
before booking a holiday.
In February 2017,  Mr and Mrs P paid a deposit for a holiday abroad  the balance  being  paid 
in February 2018.  They  were  due to travel in April 2018 but had to cancel  their holiday a few 
weeks before, as Mr P suffered a stroke. They  made a claim on the policy  for the cost of the 
holiday which was declined by IPA. 
IPA says the reason for the holiday being cancelled  related to a pre-existing medical 
condition which hadnt been declared  and accepted by it. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained to us. They would  like IPA to cover  the total cost of the 
holiday. Our investigator partly upheld their complaint. He recommended  IPA pay a 
proportion of the total cost of the holiday  on the basis  that had Mr P declared his pre-existing 
medical conditions  when he shouldve, they wouldve been covered under the policy  but the 
policy wouldve cost more. 
IPA didnt agree. So Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  has been passed to me to look at everything 
afresh and make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When doing so, Ive taken into account the law in the area  which sets out an insurers  
remedies where a consumer has deliberately, recklessly or carelessly  misrepresented  the 
situation about things like their pre-existing medical  conditions.
When a consumer takes out insurance   or in the case of a policy which  forms part of a 
packaged bank  account, at certain times during  the lifetime of that policy - theyll  be asked 
questions about  themselves and the risks they want to insure. The insurer then uses  that 
information to weigh  up whether it wishes to cover that risk and how much  it will charge for 
doing so. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a duty 
on consumers to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation and they must 
provide the insurer  with accurate information to allow it to assess the risk. 
If they dont, there are some circumstances where  an insurer may be able to avoid  the 
insurance contact or only pay a proportionate part of the amount  being claimed under the 
policy  but thats only if theres  been a qualifying misrepresentation.  In the absence of this, 
Ref: DRN66220452and where the consumer  has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, the 
insurer cant take any action at all, even if they were provided with the wrong information.
Under CIDRA, deciding  whether Mr and Mrs P took reasonable  care is to be done in the light 
of all the relevant  circumstances. That can involve  a number of things including whether the 
questions they were asked by IPA were sufficiently clear.
Each Summer IPA says Mr and Mrs P wouldve been sent an annual eligibility statement 
letter (the letter) setting  out the key eligibility  criteria  for the policy.  Because Ive only 
received a template of what the letter mightve  looked like and no system notes showing 
when the letter was generated and dispatched to Mr and Mrs P, I dont know  whether the 
letter was actually sent in this particular  case. But Mr and Mrs P havent said they didnt 
receive this letter, and overall I think its more likely  than not that it was sent. Particularly  as 
Mr P called IPAs representative at the end of July 2016 to provide information  about his and 
Mrs Ps medical conditions. Whilst I appreciate the declaration wasnt  completed  during that 
call, it does support  that Mr and Mrs P received the letter in the summer of 2016   prompting 
Mr P to call to make the declaration.
Unfortunately, IPA hasnt  been able to provide a template letter  from the summer of 2016 but 
it has given us templates  for years from either side of that date; from 2015 and 2018. As the 
contents of both are very similar, I think the letters  Mr and Mrs P are likely  to have been sent 
wouldve contained, amongst other information, the following:
No claims  arising directly  or indirectly from any pre-existing medical  condition(s) 
affecting any person  travelling under  this insurance  will be covered, unless they have 
been declared to the Medical  Assessment  helpline and the condition(s) have been 
accepted in writing.  
All medical  conditions must be re-declared  upon  the expiry of your Medical Health 
Declaration Please  follow the step-by-step guide Do you need to make  a Medical 
Health Declaration? on page  3 of your Worldwide Travel Insurance  booklet. 
Any changes in health or prescribed medication must be notified immediately
The letter is around  two pages long and Im satisfied that this information was set out fairly 
and clearly. Page 3 of the worldwide travel insurance booklet (the booklet)  referred to - 
sets out when a medical health  declaration needs to be made:
Step 1 
a)During the last two years, has anyone  travelling under this policy had any medical 
or psychological condition:
      which  has resulted  in symptoms, or
      for which any form of treatment or prescribed  medication has been required,  or
      for which they have required any medical consultation, investigation or follow-up.
b)Has anyone travelling  under  this policy EVER had any cardiovascular or   
circulatory condition? For example:
       A heart attack, angina, chest  pain(s), or any other heart condition.
       High blood pressure,  blood  clots, raised  cholesterol, aneurysm, or any    
        circulatory disease. 
       Any form of stroke, transient ischaemic attack,  or brain  haemorrhage.
Ref: DRN66220453If the answer  to either question is yes, the policyholder is directed to Step 2. This step 
relates to waived conditions which are covered  without charge under the policy so long as 
certain conditions  are met. But if the policyholder has a condition  that isnt listed  as a waived 
condition - as was the case here - theyre  asked to move on to step 3. 
This requires  each person travelling under the policy  to call the medical  assessment helpline 
to declare their medical conditions:
when   booking  any trip, or  upon  the annual renewal of your medical health 
declaration, whichever is the later
And when  doing  so, IPA: 
 will assess the medical information supplied to us and advise if we can cover the 
pre-existing medical condition(s), if certain  exclusions or restrictions should  be 
imposed, or if cover can be offered subject to the payment of an additional  premium.
Failure to declare pre-existing medical conditions that are relevant to this insurance 
may invalidate your claim.
Having looked  at the questions asked and the way theyre set out and appear at the start of 
the policy booklet, I think theyre  reasonably  clear.  
And having considered Mr Ps medical records, Im satisfied that he ought to have made a 
declaration. Its accepted  by the parties that Mr and Mrs P didnt complete their medical 
declaration at the end of July 2016  upon the annual renewal of their medical  declaration and 
nor did they contact IPA to make a medical  declaration shortly  before booking their holiday in 
February 2017, as required  under step 3 of the booklet.
So, overall, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs P failed  to take reasonable  care to answer these 
questions and made a qualifying  misrepresentation. However,  I think they were careless 
when not providing the medical  declaration. Im satisfied  theres  nothing  to suggest that they 
failed to make their declaration  or answer the questions  recklessly.  Particularly  as they 
had made  annual medical declarations  in past and had declared certain medical conditions 
when doing so.  
IPA has looked  at Mr Ps medical records and undertaken  a retro screening from the date on 
which Mr and Mrs P shouldve  declared  their medical conditions, and the follow  up questions 
Mr P wouldve  been  asked as a result.  Ive looked at the information its relied on and Im 
satisfied its retrospectively answered  those questions fairly. 
Having done so, IPA says that had Mr and Mrs P contacted it when they shouldve,  and 
answered the questions correctly, it wouldve  still covered Mr and Mrs P - but they wouldve  
been required to pay £84 more for the policy, based on the medical risk score generated. 
IPA says the total amount  paid for the travel insurance was around £46. That works out to be 
35.02% of what the cost wouldve been  had the medical declaration taken place  when it 
shouldve. 
The total amount  claimed for cancelling  their holiday was £5,448 and 35.02% of this amount 
works out to be £1,907.89 (the proportionate  settlement). Im satisfied IPA should  settle  
Mr and Mrs Ps claim on this basis - subject to the remaining terms of the policy.  
Ref: DRN66220454When making this finding Ive taken into account all of IPAs  points, including  that the policy  
says no claim  arising directly or indirectly from a pre-existing medical condition affecting  
Mr and / or Mrs P will be covered unless they have declared all pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
As such it says it was right to decline their claim as it doesnt matter whether  Mr and Mrs Ps 
failure to make a medical declaration was intentional  or not, theyre still in breach of the 
policy terms. 
I accept that it looks like Mr and Mrs Ps holiday was cancelled due to a pre-existing medical 
condition as Mr P was suffering with hypertension and high blood pressure. Although he 
says those conditions  were well managed  with medication and his stroke  was unexpected, I 
can see why IPA has linked the stroke and those  conditions  together, to conclude  theyre 
related. However,  given  my findings that had Mr and Mrs P declared their medical conditions 
they wouldve  been covered (albeit at a higher cost),  I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for IPA to rely upon  the pre-existing medical condition exclusion in the policy to 
decline the claim.
putting things right:
IPA should reconsider  the claim in line with the remaining  terms of the policy. Having done 
so, if the claim is accepted, IPA should:
make  the proportionate settlement  to Mr and Mrs P; and 
calculate and pay 8% simple interest*  on the proportionate settlement from the 
date the claim was declined to the date payment is made.
*If IPA considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give them  a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one. That way they can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put 
things right by doing what  Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept  or reject my decision before 
9 February 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6622045