K820x#14complaint
Mrs H, representing the Estate of Mr H, complains that Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (trading as Audi Finance) requested additional money for the purchase of a car, after 
she, Mr Hs wife, had already been advised  the finance agreement  was settled.
background
Mr H had a hire purchase agreement with Audi Finance. When he died Mrs H was told shed 
need to pay just over £11,000 to buy the vehicle and settle the finance.  She did that and 
received a letter in July 2018 which confirmed this. Mrs H says shes  now received a further 
letter to say there was an error with the settlement figure and she owes  over £7,000 extra.
Audi Finance confirmed  an error  was made when notifying its third party agents  of the 
settlement figure. It offered to reduce the outstanding balance  by 50%, from £7,115.83 to 
£3,557.91 and to set up a repayment plan over three months.
Mrs H says she has a letter confirming the balance is settled and considers this should be a 
dispute between  Audi Finance and its third party agents.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied from 
the evidence that the settlement figure  in March  2018 should  have been £18,268.22,  but that 
Audi Finance provided an incorrect figure  to its third party agents which,  in turn, quoted  the 
wrong figure  to Mrs H. Although she acknowledged that the error came  at an extremely  
difficult time for Mrs H, she found  that the estate of Mr H did indeed  owe a further £7115.83. 
Therefore, our adjudicator considered that Audi Finances offer to reduce this figure by 50% 
was a fair and reasonable one.
Mrs H did not agree with our adjudicators  view.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mrs H and to Audi Finance on 31 March 2020. I summarise  
my findings  here:
I was satisfied that Audi Finance  made an error and Mrs H was quoted the incorrect 
settlement figure;
I explained that this service  strives  to put a consumer back  in the position  in which 
they would  have been had the error not happened;
Mrs H initially  completed all the paperwork to transfer the finance agreement  into her 
name. However, two weeks  later, the executor confirmed  she was looking to settle, 
which she did in July 2018;
Mrs H told Audi Finance that had she been  given  the correct settlement figure at the 
time, she would  have returned the car and would have  paid the voluntary termination 
figure of £3,252.09 which shed  been quoted;
I considered it more likely than not that Mrs H had been quoted an incorrect  
termination figure as I found the correct  one was £6,473.75, leaving her owing 
£3,221.66 had she chosen this option;
So, taking into account the above, the refund of her settlement fee, and a reasonable 
usage charge  from Audi Finance, I calculated it was likely that Mrs H would receive 
an insignificant amount, and would need to return the car, if I decided to put her back 
into the position she would have been had the mistake not happened;
Ref: DRN60218342I also considered the alternative,  had Mrs H been given the correct settlement figure, 
and was aware of the correct termination  fee. That is that she would have continued 
with the original plan of transferring  the finance  agreement into her name:
oHad she done that, Mrs H would have paid around £28,000  for the car over 
the term of the agreement. In comparison, if Mrs H now pays the additional 
£3,557.91, she will end up paying around  £22,240 for the car. This compares 
with the original cash price of £24,600;
So, although I acknowledged that Mrs H still considered the additional charge should 
be waived as the mistake was not hers, for the reasons cited  above, I didnt find that 
to be a fair and reasonable  outcome. Indeed, if Mrs H was put back  into the position  
in which  shed have  been had the mistake not happened, shed be in a less 
favourable position  than she would  be with Audi Finances current offer.
Audi Finance confirmed  its offer to reduce the outstanding balance by 50% still stood so I 
found it was entitled to pursue the estate of Mr H for the £3,557.91 subject to an agreed 
payment plan (the original offer included payment over three  months)  and my provisional 
decision was not to uphold the complaint.
Mrs H responded to say, in summary, that she didnt complete the paperwork for the finance 
agreement transfer,  she wasnt told of the shortfall  until 5 September 2018, and she didnt 
need to keep the car as she had her own, but wanted to do so for sentimental  reasons. But 
Mrs H offered to pay £1,778.95 as she considered that to be a fair outcome for a situation 
that was not of her making, and would enable an extremely stressful time to come to an end.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Audi Finance confirmed  that it did in fact receive  the completed paperwork for the transfer of 
the finance and had approved it before Mrs H then decided to settle.  It also confirmed that, 
although it contacted the third party about  the error on 20 July 2018, Mrs H wasnt  told about 
it until 5 September  2018, after it had been  investigated. Although Audi Finance says it 
sympathises with the position in which Mrs H finds herself, it still considers its offer to reduce 
the settlement  by 50% is a fair one and it wouldnt accept a further reduced offer.
Ive reconsidered  all the evidence, including the further submissions from both Mrs H, and 
Audi Finance. None  of the additional  information has persuaded me to change my opinion  
on what would be the fair outcome to this complaint  and so I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H, on behalf  of 
The Estate of Mr H, to accept or reject  my decision before 17 May 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6021834