K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that after he was involved in an accident The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited (NFU) settled a claim  with the third party  and avoided  his 
motor insurance policy.  It is now requesting the cost of the claim from him.
background 
Mr W took out a car insurance policy with NFU in February 2018  which  started on 
21 February 2018. He was asked if he had any County Court Judgements (CCJs)  and 
agrees he did not disclose  any CCJs recorded  against him.
On 23 February 2018 Mr W was reversing off his drive when he was hit from behind by a 
third-party vehicle. A claim was made  by the third party which  was accepted  and paid by 
NFU.
After carrying out checks  NFU found that Mr W hadnt disclosed a CCJ when he took out the 
policy. NFU explained  that it wouldnt have offered Mr W insurance had it been aware of the 
CCJ and decided to avoid the policy from inception  making him responsible for the costs it 
had incurred when  it settled the third-party claim. NFU also refunded  everything Mr W had 
paid for the policy.
NFU has been chasing Mr W for the costs it incurred as a result of the third-party claim, but 
Mr W thinks this is unfair. He says NFU had other options available other  than to avoid  his 
policy and the amount  it settled in relation to the claim was unreasonable. He also doesnt  
think NFU should had admitted fault for the accident  as he wasnt  responsible.  
Our investigator thought NFU had acted reasonably in the actions it had taken, but that it 
had given Mr W some misleading information, so she asked NFU to pay Mr W £100 
compensation for the inconvenience this caused.
Mr W didnt agree so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he bought  his policy Mr W had a responsibility  - under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) - to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. Mr W has agreed he didnt tell NFU about his CCJ when it asked him if 
he had one. For NFU to take any action in relation to the misrepresentation NFU has to 
show that the information Mr W failed to give is whats described as a qualifying 
misrepresentation 
To show Mr Ws misrepresentation was a qualifying one, under CIDRA NFU needs to show  
it would  either not have  offered the policy at all, if Mr W hadnt made  the misrepresentation 
or that it would have  offered it on different terms. NFU has shown that it would not have 
offered Mr W a policy if he had told it about  the CCJ. So, Im satisfied Mr W made  a 
qualifying misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN68699742Mr W has explained that a letter NFU sent him explained that had it been  aware  of the CCJ it 
may not have been able to offer him a policy. From this comment  he feels NFU may also 
have been able to offer him a policy on different terms,  so it was unfair to avoid the policy 
entirely. 
I appreciate NFU could  have been  clearer and the wording of its letter  does suggest  that on 
some occasions, in the same circumstances, NFU may have offered a policy.  But NFU has 
shown that, it would not have offered Mr W a policy, so I am satisfied it has acted fairly in 
avoiding the policy from inception. As though Mr W had never had a policy to start with.
As a claim had been made on the policy before it was avoided NFU has asked Mr W to pay 
back the costs it incurred in settling the claim. This isnt unusual  request in these 
circumstances, as NFU would not have accepted the policy, it follows that it would not have 
occurred any claims costs.  We usually consider it fair for an insurer to request  any claims 
costs be reimbursed if its found that the insurer should never have incurred the cost in the 
first place.
Mr W has argued that NFU told him they had no liability in respect of any claim. It said As a 
result of voiding the Policy, we have no liability in respect of any Claim made by you or any 
other Party  since it is treated as never having existed. So it shouldnt  have accepted  liability  
for the accident  and paid the third party.
Ive thought about what Mr W has said but NFU,  like any other insurer  in this position while 
wouldnt have a responsibility under the insurance  contract to settle  third part claims, did still 
have a responsibility under the road traffic act to do so. So, I think  it was fair in these 
circumstances to consider  a claim from the third party.
Mr W has gone on to say that he doesnt think he was responsible for the accident and NFU 
was too quick  to settle the extortionate claim brought  by the third party.  Although he had 
been reversing  from his driveway  he was practically stationary at the side of the road in the 
same position that a parked car would be. The third party that hit him in the rear wasnt 
concentrating and must have been driving too fast. Mr W also has an independent  witness  
with the same view of the accident.
In response to this our investigator asked for a breakdown of the claim NFU had paid to the 
third party. NFU have supported the claim payment by providing  invoices  from the third party  
for car hire, and the value  of their car being  written  off which was supported by an engineers 
report. The third party  did not make a claim for injury. With the evidence  provided I think 
NFU acted fairly in accepting the claim amount presented by the third party.
Turning to whether  NFU should have accepted that Mr W would have been found liable for 
the accident. NFU has explained that as Mr W was reversing from his drive onto another 
road, he had a greater  responsibility to other drivers  already on the road, it has also 
explained that while Mr W thinks the third-party  wasnt concentrating and was speeding, and 
otherwise could have avoided  the accident  these  two things  are difficult to prove.  In its 
experience had the claim gone to court Mr W would have been  held responsible.
While I appreciate Mr Ws view, and that he had an independent witness that supported  his 
view I think NFUs conclusion was reasonable. It would be very difficult  to prove  the third 
party was either  speeding or not concentrating. By accepting the third party claim  when it did 
NFU has avoided further costs and the possibility of court action.
Ref: DRN68699743As I said above it is fair for NFU to ask Mr W to refund the costs  it has incurred by accepting  
the third-party claim.
While I dont think NFU acted unfairly in settling  the third party claim outside of the insurance 
contract and requesting reimbursement from Mr W, I do think some  of its correspondence 
could have been clearer and caused  less confusion. And NFU should  pay Mr W £100  
compensation in recognition of this. Im please to say NFU have agreed with this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. 
I require The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society  Limited to pay Mr W £100 in 
recognition of the inconvenience this caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6869974