K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
AXA has told us Mrs B paid less than £18 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy.
Mrs B bought the policy at a meeting in 1999 at the same  time as taking a hire-purchase 
agreement. She was employed at the time as an office manager and had been there two 
years. Shes told us she was entitled  to redundancy pay and to sick pay of six months full 
pay followed  by six months  half pay. Shes told us she didnt have any other means, like 
savings, with which to pay her hire-purchase agreement if she couldnt work. Mrs B has told 
us of taking painkillers for a health  issue in around  1999. She hasnt told us of having seen a 
doctor for this issue or of receiving any other  treatment for it or of taking any time off work for 
it - and she hasnt told us of having  had before the sale any other health issues. 
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it offered to 
pay the monthly repayment of Mrs Bs agreement. The life cover would, subject to its terms, 
clear the balance outstanding on the agreement on death. The policy  cost £1.74  a month 
and the premium would continue  to have to be paid in the event of a successful claim. 
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Bs representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs B wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Bs representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs B about the 
poor value; 
Ref: DRN67720062The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs B and the impact they would 
have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN67720063The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
AXA was a member  of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the
finance and leasing  industry. Section 4 of the code covered  Credit  Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, AXA was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not AXA  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of AXA. 
So I am satisfied it is right I should take these codes  into account when deciding  what  is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Bs case. Ive also taken 
account of relevant law in reaching my decision,  including: the law relating to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on professional 
advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the duty 
of utmost good  faith; and the law relating  to causation  and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  I am also required to take into account what  
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance  
when considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN67720064-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs B sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs B know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs B has said she had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was just included as part of the package . But the credit agreement  she 
signed had a separate Payment  Protection Insurance Application  section, with a space for 
her to sign if she wanted the PPI. Mrs B signed this space, separately  from signing for the 
credit, and nothing  above the space  or elsewhere on the form said she had to take the PPI 
or had to sign the space for it if she didnt want it. Ive seen nothing to make me think Mrs B 
was pressured  into signing for the cover either. Taking everything into account, I think its 
more likely Mrs B knew the policy was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Taking  into account also what  Mrs B has 
said, Im persuaded  AXA didnt provide  advice.  This means AXA didnt have to check if the 
PPI was suitable for Mrs B. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs B was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, the policy would protect her payments if she were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment). Ive reached this conclusion  because I 
think its unlikely Mrs B would have taken the policy without any sense  of what  it was for. The 
credit agreement called the PPI payment protection insurance and told Mrs B the PPI cost 
14% of the monthly repayment and that the monthly premium would be £1.74. It also set out 
the monthly repayment without PPI and the total repayment if PPI were included.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  AXA gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs B agreed to take the policy.  So I dont think AXA gave Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate and 
timely information to enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take the 
policy, including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN67720065I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor  value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think it is unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs B has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs B? To what extent did she suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs B. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had AXA done things  properly. 
Mrs B says she would  not have  taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs B had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. As Ive found above,  she chose to take this policy. So I consider 
its reasonable to conclude  she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of 
insurance. But she made this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Mrs B has suffered any loss or detriment.
The information Mrs B was given about the cost was clear. But the information  about other  
aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions and the benefit,  wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been. That said, while Im not persuaded AXA made clear exactly  what the 
policy would pay for a successful claim, I think its unlikely Mrs Bs expectations about what it 
would pay (an amount  sufficient to meet her hire-purchase  repayments) were significantly 
different to what the policy actually did.
Ref: DRN67720066Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mrs B knew  or shouldve  known 
about or that Mrs B had been advised  or treated for by a doctor  in the 12 months before 
the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs B wasnt  
a permanent employee; 
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs B be stopped from doing 
her own or any similar job, and be stopped  from doing any paid work her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
agreement.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs B pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs B might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs B 
from taking the policy,  Mrs B, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
In saying this I take into account Mrs B couldnt have claimed for work absences  if related to 
the health issue shed taken painkillers  for in the year of the sale (assuming that happened 
before the sale).  Ive carefully considered  all she has told us about this health issue. Ive 
taken into account  that, based on what I have, Mrs B didnt see a doctor, receive any other 
treatment or miss work as a result  of this issue. Taking into account also all thats  been  said 
in the responses  weve received for her, on balance what I have doesnt make  me think 
Mrs B wouldve  thought at the sale that significant work absences  from this issue were so 
likely in future that cover that excluded such absences would no longer be worth  taking. 
Also Mrs B hasnt told us of having  had any other health issues.  
On balance, and in light of all Ive said above, what I have doesnt persuade  me Mrs Bs 
decision to take the policy wouldve changed  had she been told more  about the policy  health  
exclusions. Also, I havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mrs B wouldve been  caught by 
any of the other significant exclusions  she was in permanent employment for example. So, 
taking everything into account, I think she still had some good reasons to take the policy.
Ref: DRN67720067AXA may not have  told Mrs B any claim she made  would be limited to 12 months. This may 
have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months was longer  
than she wouldve received full sick pay and her redundancy  entitlement  was also likely 
significantly less than 12 months income. Taking everything into account, I consider it likely 
Mrs B wouldve  still thought PPI that paid the hire-purchase payments due for up to 12 
months would  be of benefit  if she couldnt  work in the circumstances the policy covered.
If Mrs B had known she could only claim for disability  if she were unable  to do her own or 
any similar job, and unable to do any paid work her education, experience  or training  might 
reasonably qualify her to do, this might  have played into her thinking about what  to do. And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  but, on balance, given her circumstances I 
think Mrs B wouldve still been  interested in taking the cover.
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about  pregnancy. The policy  wouldnt have covered 
work absences arising from childbirth  or normal symptoms of pregnancy  that didnt represent 
a hazard to mother or baby. But in certain situations  if the symptoms arising were due to a 
disease, sickness or health condition, the policy would, subject to its terms and evidential 
requirements, cover related work  absences. With all this in mind,  if AXA had provided 
information about the policy terms in the way that it shouldve, Im not persuaded Mrs Bs 
knowledge of the terms relating to pregnancy wouldve altered her decision to take it.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs B would  still have taken the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she were  made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mrs B wouldve taken the policy  in any 
event, notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN67720068proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she wouldve been  in if she had not 
bought the policy. Thats because, while I accept its possible  she would not have taken  the 
policy, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not Mrs B wouldve still taken 
the policy had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude AXA should pay Mrs B compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mrs B thinks  AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs B and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6772006