K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is complaining about Zurich Assurance Ltd because she says she was forced into 
buying a life insurance policy she didnt  want or need alongside her mortgage.
background
Mrs R arranged a new mortgage in 2004. At the same time, following discussions with a 
Zurich representative,  she also took out a life insurance policy  designed to provide cover  for 
a term of ten years. Mrs R cancelled the policy in 2011 when she repaid her mortgage.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think there was 
enough evidence  to show Mrs R was misled about  the need  to take the policy.
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for her case to be reviewed. 
She says she was in a vulnerable position  and was told she had to take the policy  to get her 
mortgage. She says she didnt need the policy  as she had life cover  through  her work. She 
also says shes only now realised the policy had a ten-year term and questions why she 
needed that when the mortgage was for 25 years and given she was fit and healthy.at the 
time.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Ive taken account of what  Mrs R says she was (and wasnt) told. But on their own and 
without additional  supporting evidence,  I dont think her comments  are enough for me to say 
she was misled about the need to take the policy.
This notwithstanding, Mrs R received advice and the representative she dealt with had a 
responsibility to make  sure any recommendation was suitable for her circumstances and 
needs.
When she arranged her mortgage, Mrs R took on a substantial new commitment  and I think  
its hard to argue her family wouldnt have benefited  from a lump sum sufficient to repay 
some of all of the outstanding mortgage  if shed  died. I appreciate Mrs R says she had life 
cover through her employer, but that would only last while she stayed in the same  job. Her 
mortgage was a long-term commitment and I think it was reasonable to recommend she 
have life cover in place.  
I dont think the fact Mrs R was in good health  makes the advice unsuitable. Thats normally  
the best time to take out this kind of cover.  Once an individual starts to experience  serious 
health problems,  life cover starts to become more expensive and some people  may even 
find they cant get cover at all.
I cant be sure exactly what  was discussed at the time, but it is slightly  unusual for a 10-year 
policy to be recommended to cover  a 25-year mortgage. In my view,  a more  suitable 
recommendation would have been a 25-year policy. But that would have needed Mrs R to 
pay a higher monthly premium and given she cancelled the cover  early anyway, I think  its 
difficulty to conclude she was disadvantaged by having  a cheaper policy.
Ref: DRN68197472I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mrs R and isnt what  she was 
hoping for. I also understand why she may now feel her life cover policy wasnt  necessary. 
But I dont think theres enough evidence to show she was wrongly  told she had to have  it or 
that this type of cover wasnt a suitable  recommendation  for her circumstances at the time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6819747