K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Curo  Transatlantic Limited  trading as WageDayAdvance (WDA)  lent 
him money  that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr E took out one loan with WDA  for £200  in July 2012. He was due to repay  £259  from a 
declared disposable income of £300.  Mr E says that WDA was wrong to agree to lend based 
on the figures that he gave about  his income  and outgoings.
Mr E wants  WDA  to refund interest  and charges and remove the entry from his credit  file.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Es complaint be upheld. The adjudicator  thought that 
as the loan repayment represented a substantial portion of Mr Es income, WDA shouldve 
been asking for details  of Mr Es income and outgoings, including  monthly living  costs  and 
regular credit commitments.
The adjudicator thought  that with better checks,  WDA wouldve discovered that Mr E had 
normal living  costs and regular financial  commitments of more than £960. This left him with 
no disposable income from which to repay the loan.
The adjudicator asked WDA to refund  the charges and interest applied together  with interest 
at 8%. The adjudicator also asked WDA to remove any negative information about  the loan 
from Mr Es credit  file.
WDA disagreed with our adjudicators recommendation.  It said Mr E didnt make WDA aware 
of his financial difficulties.  WDA doesnt agree  that the repayment  represented  a substantial 
portion of Mr Es declared income.
WDA says it asked Mr E to include  all essential  expenditure, as well as credit commitments 
and food. WDA says that the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) guidance in place at the time 
meant it wasnt unreasonable  for a lender not to ask a customer for supporting  evidence  of 
income and expenditure. 
WDA suggests that this service is moving the assessment required under our regulators  
from reasonable and proportionate to specific and disproportionate in relation  to the 
amounts borrowed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
WDA was required  to lend responsibly.  It needed  to made checks to see whether Mr E could 
afford to repay each  of the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr E was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks WDA  had to do. 
The guidance in place at the time of the loans (The OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance) 
sets out the lenders responsibility to take reasonable steps to ensure that a borrower can 
sustainably repay  their loans. It said that assessing affordability is a borrower-focussed test 
Ref: DRN67744222which involves a creditor assessing a borrowers  ability to undertake  a specific credit 
commitment, or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable  manner, without the 
borrower incurring  (further) financial difficulties. The guidance also said that repaying credit  
in a sustainable manner meant being  able to repay  credit out of income  and/or available 
savings and without undue  difficulty.  And it defined undue  difficulty as being  able to 
repay credit while also meeting other debt repayments and normal/reasonable  outgoings 
and without having  to borrow further  to meet these repayments.
WDA says that it asked  Mr E for details  of his income and outgoings before agreeing  to lend. 
WDA recorded figures of £900 for income  and £600  for outgoings.  Although the loan was a 
running account credit agreement with no fixed duration, WDA told Mr E that it assumed a 
repayment of £259  on the £200  loan that he borrowed.
WDA was entitled to rely on the information  that Mr E gave. But the repayment due on the 
loan was almost one third of Mr Es stated monthly  income  a fairly significant proportion.  
I agree  with the adjudicator that a proportionate check  shouldve included WDA asking about 
Mr Es regular  credit commitments  as well as his living expenses. Its not clear to me 
whether WDA did so.
The adjudicator invited WDA to give us evidence of what  items  it asked  Mr E to include as 
part of his expenditure. As far as I can see, WDA hasnt given that to us. Although I wouldnt 
have expected WDA to go as far as asking to see evidence of Mr Es credit  commitments, 
Ive used bank  statements  to see what its likely  that Mr E wouldve told WDA if it had asked  
about them. 
Even if was to be persuaded that WDAs checks had gone far enough, I would still uphold 
this complaint. Although it wouldve still appeared that Mr E could just about afford to repay 
the loan from his disposable income,  I dont think this means that he could afford to repay 
the loan in a sustainable  way. Mr E was left with about £41 after making the payment to 
WDA. If hed had had any unexpected expenses  even relatively minor  ones  Mr E 
wouldve been left with no disposable  income at all. 
As I think  Mr E has lost out, WDA should pay him compensation.
putting things right
To put things right, WDA  should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr E paid on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement *; 
remove any negative information  recorded on Mr Es credit  file about the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mr E a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN67744223my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Curo Transatlantic Limited trading as WageDayAdvance  
to put things right as set out in the above bullet points.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6774422