K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that when he applied to draw his benefits from Aviva  Life & Pensions UK 
Limited (Aviva) as a triviality  payment, he was given a number of assurances that the money  
would be paid to him. But after a number  of delays Aviva said that it wasnt  possible to make 
the payment under  the triviality rules. Following his initial complaint Aviva then advised Mr T 
that he could take a lump sum payment only to contact  him shortly afterwards and to say it 
wasnt possible.
He says Aviva should have been  aware that he wasnt eligible for a triviality payment and 
shouldnt have told him that the payment was going to be made as hes now made plans to 
use the funds.  He wants Aviva to make the payment to him as compensation  as opposed 
to a trivial payment,  to honour  the agreement it made. 
background
Mr T holds  a number of pensions with Aviva.  In September 2018 he began to receive  warm 
up letters  for one of his plans  which had a selected retirement date (SRD) of 3 March 2019.  
In December 2018 he received a retirement pack which set out his options for taking 
benefits from the plan, so he contacted Aviva. Following a conversation to establish his 
situation Mr T completed the forms within the pack to confirm option 3G- A payment to you 
on grounds of triviality. The illustration hed received indicated he would receive a tax free 
sum of £4,588.53  and a residual sum of £11,012.46 after income tax had been  deducted.
He provided his bank account details and also confirmed he had no other pension benefits  
that needed to be taken  into account.  Aviva acknowledged receipt  of his documents  but said 
that as his SRD was 3 March 2019 it would pay him nearer  to that date.
On 26 March 2019 Mr T chased up his payment and was told it would be made within a few 
days. On 28 March Mr T was told by Aviva his payment  would be made the following day. 
But the following  day Mr T was informed by Aviva  that it was unable  to make a triviality 
payment to him. Mr T asked for someone  to contact him to answer his questions about the 
payment and to explain  what had happened.  
 
Aviva did contact Mr T, explaining that it should have realised he held a number of pension 
plans with a total value  of over £30,000  which  meant he wasnt eligible for the triviality option 
with this plan.  It also said it shouldnt have told him the benefits  were due to be paid on 
several occasions. It apologised for its error  and offered Mr T £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. It also said that if he chose  to take his benefits it would ensure 
payments were backdated and any interest  would  be added.
Mr T wasnt satisfied  with the offer. He felt that Aviva should  make the triviality payment as 
compensation to him.  He said that was an agreement that had been made. 
As he remained dissatisfied Mr T brought his complaint  to us. 
Around that time Mr T received another call from Aviva telling him that he could withdraw his 
funds as an uncrystallised fund pension lump  sum (UFPLS) and that it would calculate the 
figures involved for him. But it called back two days later to say that wasnt an option he 
could take either.
One of our investigators  looked into the whole matter and said the complaint should be 
upheld. She said it was clear that Aviva had made errors but thought that its offer of £400 
Ref: DRN65713222compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it had caused  seemed fair and reasonable. 
But she felt the second error Aviva made  after Mr T had already complained, would  have 
caused further distress  and she recommended  a further £150  should be paid.
But she said that Aviva  shouldnt have to pay the trivial commutation lump sum which Mr T 
had requested, as he wasnt entitled to receive it and it wouldnt be fair for him to significantly 
benefit from Avivas error.  
Aviva didnt agree. It said it thought the compensation it had offered had been appropriate 
for the errors  it made and it didnt think it should  have to pay further compensation because 
 although it had provided some  further  incorrect information, it had corrected it within  two 
days.  
Mr T also didnt  agree.  He believed  that the second  error caused him more distress  than the 
first so couldnt understand why wed recommended less compensation. He wasnt  sure why 
wed considered  the two events alongside each other. He also said he was happy to repay 
any income payments  hed received  from Aviva  in order for Aviva to then pay him the 
triviality lump  sum. He also said Aviva  hadnt  backdated his pension payments as promised. 
The investigator arranged  for Aviva  to backdate the payments but said she felt the award of 
a further £150 was fair based on the distress and inconvenience each error had caused. But 
as no resolution could be found, the complaints been passed to me for a review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Theres  no dispute here 
that Aviva  made some errors,  both in agreeing to pay Mr T under  a trivial commutation rule 
and also by telling him payment would be made when he contacted Aviva. So what  Ive 
considered here is whether Mr T is entitled to the triviality payment and also the impact  
Avivas actions have had on Mr T and what level of compensation would be fair and 
reasonable for that impact. 
Mr Ts entitlement to the trivial commutation lump sum
If someone has £30,000 or less as the sum total of their private  pensions,  they can usually 
take everything as a trivial  commutation lump sum on their chosen  retirement  date. This 
option allows a 25% tax-free payment, with the rest of the fund then being taxed and paid as 
a lump sum.  
Mr Ts pension was worth around £18,354  when he spoke with Aviva  about taking his 
benefits, so I can understand why it was agreed that he could receive a trivial payment. 
But Aviva hadnt  taken all of his other pension benefits into account because  and Ive seen 
they were worth around £51,946  in March  2019   he didnt actually qualify for a trivial 
commutation lump sum. 
This was an error from Aviva  which was compounded by the further actions it took,  and Ill 
look at those factors when  considering  the impact this had on Mr T. But, putting those errors 
to one side, its clear that once it realised its mistake Aviva confirmed it wasnt able to pay 
Mr T his benefits under  the triviality option.  As  Aviva  explained  in its final response  letter,  if 
payments were made  under that option this would have amounted to an unauthorised 
Ref: DRN65713223payment and would  have  caused problems with HMRC. This may have led to potential  
penalties and surcharges which would have been detrimental to both parties.  
So, despite  having previously agreed to make the payment, the facts  of Mr Ts pension 
situation are that he wasnt  eligible to receive  a trivial payment. I understand Mr T has now 
started to receive his pension as a monthly income,  and while  I agree this isnt the way he 
chose to receive the benefits it would be unfair of me to tell Aviva  to pay him the trivial 
payment  even  as compensation  which Mr T has suggested. Thats  because  it wouldnt be 
fair for Mr T to end up in a significantly better position than he should have been in had Aviva  
not made an error. 
Compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Mr T has suffered
I can see that Mr T has been inconvenienced  by Avivas actions. He says hes already  made  
plans for the money he was expecting to receive  as a lump sum  from his pension.  And 
its clear Aviva has significantly raised Mr Ts expectations of what  he might receive by 
suggesting for nearly three months that he would  be paid over £15,000. I note the retirement 
pack Aviva  has provided from 3 March 2019  didnt have the option to take a trivial payment. 
So I think it had probably identified prior to that point  that Mr T didnt qualify for that option. 
But theres no evidence  it made him aware of that  or that it required those forms to be 
completed, which would have raised  the question of why the option was no longer available.
In my view this compounded the problem of the distress and inconvenience Mr T suffered 
because by now the payment was already late  and as far as Mr T was aware would still be 
paid as a lump sum. And Ive seen that on separate occasions Mr T contacted Aviva to ask 
where his payment was and on each occasion he was promised it would be paid soon. At 
this point Mr T wouldnt have been expecting any other outcome  than to receive his funds by 
the end of March  2019, so I think it would have caused him a great deal of distress when he 
was informed that not only had the money  not been  paid when it should  have, but that it 
wouldnt be paid at all because he wasnt eligible.
But Aviva has acknowledged  all of these errors  and accepted that this would have caused 
Mr T significant distress and inconvenience as a result of these raised  expectations. And its 
offered to pay Mr T £400  for the impact this had. I think that, when considering Avivas 
mistakes and how this would have impacted Mr T directly, for a number of months,  the offer 
is fair and reasonable.
Mr T then made us aware  that, even  after his initial complaint, Aviva  contacted  him to 
suggest there was a way that he could  receive the benefits as an UFPLS.  Once again this 
would have raised Mr Ts expectations   unnecessarily  as it turned out  because  
unfortunately two days later Aviva clarified this wasnt an option available to him. 
The investigator decided  this was an extension of Mr Ts initial  complaint. And I would agree 
with that because the secondary issue from Mr Ts complaint was also about  being told 
incorrectly he could draw  a lump sum from his pension. So I do agree with the investigator 
that Mr T should be given  further compensation for the additional distress  and inconvenience  
this matter caused. Mr T said he thought the second error was worth more compensation 
than the first because the issue had already occurred once and showed Aviva hadnt  learnt  
from its mistakes. He also said the second issue had made him even angrier for that 
reason. 
Ref: DRN65713224Aviva said it didnt think it should pay any further  compensation because  its offer was 
sufficient for all the distress and inconvenience  Mr T had suffered, and in any case it 
corrected any mis-leading information  it may have gave Mr T within two days  on the second 
occasion.
But I do think this error  should  be recognised as a further mistake that wasnt  initially  
addressed by Avivas  offer. And I think Aviva should  have  been more careful not to have 
made the same mistake twice. I think this would  have affected Mr T because  even  for a 
short period  of time  his expectation  of receiving a lump sum was reignited. But I have 
taken into account  Aviva did correct the mistake within  a couple of days, so I dont  think it 
should have to pay the same sort of compensation as it offered for raising Mr Ts 
expectations for around three months.  In all the circumstances of the complaint I think  an 
additional £150 is fair and reasonable when the impact on Mr T is considered. 
Mr T said to us that Aviva hadnt made the back payments it said it would  make  if he decided  
to take his income as an annuity.  Ive asked Aviva to confirm  the calculations  its carried out 
regarding these missed  payments.  And Im satisfied thats its now worked them out correctly  
 including  additional interest  payments. Aviva  has confirmed it will pay the backdated 
annuity payments  in addition to the other  compensation its already agreed to pay Mr T.  
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I uphold  Mr Ts complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should  pay an additional £150  to Mr T for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by advising Mr T that he could  draw his benefits  as an UFPLS.   Its 
also offered £400  for the distress and inconvenience  caused  by its first error and I think 
thats a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances.
So Aviva should  pay a total of £550  as compensation as well as the value of the backdated 
missed annuity payments   including interest  which it owes Mr T. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6571322