K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) was mis-sold to her.
background
Ms W took receipt  of a new car in August 2018. She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. 
Prior to signing the finance agreement Ms W was only able to test drive the old model  of the 
car she eventually hired. She has explained that, as she has a medical condition, she was 
keen to ensure  that the new model was ergonomically identical to the one she drove. She 
says she was induced  into taking out the deal because the dealership  confirmed the two 
cars were the same ergonomically. 
But within the first two weeks Ms W complained to BMWFS. She said the power  steering 
was heavier in the new car and that when shed  pulled a lever the seat hand angled  to the 
left. She said these issues had caused her back to go even further  out of alignment. 
She returned the car to BMWFS and had to pay them over £7,000 to terminate the 
agreement. 
BMWFS acknowledged that Ms W was told the cars were the same ergonomically  and they 
insisted they were. They said the seat twist was a model characteristic and not a 
manufacturing defect.
So Ms W referred her complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided his view. He 
noted that the technical specification stated that the power steering  ratio was different on the 
two models and he also thought, on balance, that it was likely the seat twist characteristic 
wasnt available on the earlier  model  of car. He reviewed information  from Ms Ws doctors 
and he thought it reasonable to suggest  even slight changes to the ergonomics of the car 
could have a huge impact  on Ms Ws medical  condition. So he thought the car had been  
mis-sold to Ms W and that there  was evidence that if shed known the ergonomics were  a 
little different she would  not have proceeded with the deal.
To put things right he suggested BMWFS should;  refund  Ms Ws advance payment and her 
part exchange; refund  the settlement figure  shed paid and any finance instalments shed 
made that werent  accounted for in that settlement.  He also thought they should refund the 
consequential losses Ms W had incurred from 13 September 2018 to the date upon  which  
she handed the car back and that BMWFS should also refund the insurance cancellation 
charge Ms W had incurred and the cost of her GAP insurance. He thought, in the 
circumstances, there  was also evidence that Ms W had been inconvenienced by BMWFSs 
actions so he suggested they pay her £350  compensation.
BMWFS didnt agree with the adjudicators  suggestion. They said Ms W took two weeks  to 
identify ergonomic problems with the car and that it was unreasonable to suggest she would 
have identified these  in a test drive  if it was available to her. They asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN60881472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint BMWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms W acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  mis-sold to 
Ms W. If it was, and if that mis-sale led her to enter  into a contract that she would not 
otherwise have entered into, then Id think BMWFS were responsible.
BMWFS have accepted  that the dealership confirmed there was no ergonomic difference 
between the old and new models and that they were aware of the importance  of this for 
Ms W. 
I think its clear  that even the smallest of ergonomic changes may have  an impact on Ms Ws 
condition and I think its fair to say this is what she was trying  to avoid when she agreed  to 
the hire.
I think there is therefore evidence that this car was mis-sold to Ms W. I say that because its 
clear, from the technical specifications Ive been  provided, that the new car had a different, 
and stiffer, power steering  ratio. Thats something I think  BMWFS  should  have  told Ms W 
about and I think  if she was told she would not have gone ahead  with the deal. I say that 
because Ive considered the medical information Ms W has provided. That says that power 
steering is an important factor for her when considering a new car. I therefore think  it follows 
that any change  in power steering would  be something she would need to have been  told 
about.
Ms W has also said the seat twist wasnt available on her other car and given the information 
Ive been provided  with it seems thats  probably  correct. I think  thats another  reason the car 
was misrepresented to Ms W.
BMWFS say that the ergonomic differences would not have  been  evident in the test drive  if 
Ms W had test driven the newer model  that she eventually hired. They  say it took her about 
two weeks to recognise the problem so she would not have recognised  them in a limited  test 
drive. But Ms W wasnt given the newer model to test drive so thats not a finding I can 
make. She appears to have been persuaded by the dealership that there was no difference 
between the model  she had test driven  and the one she was hiring.  And thats the 
Ref: DRN60881473misrepresentation that led her enter  into an agreement that she would not have  otherwise  
entered into.
I can see that Ms W has been put to some inconvenience here.  I can understand that she 
would need to take public transport and the occasional taxi to get her to key appointments 
and it must  have been distressing to have to return a new car so soon after it had been 
supplied to her. It must also have been distressing  to have to progress a complaint and, in 
the circumstances, I would agree with the adjudicator that BMWFS should compensate 
Ms W for that inconvenience. I would agree that £350 seems fair.
I would also agree with the award  of consequential losses  the adjudicator has suggested 
and that Ive detailed in the background of this complaint. Those costs would not, I think  its 
fair to say, have been incurred if the misrepresentation hadnt have happened.
Ms W appears to have driven  the car for only a very limited period so Id also agree  that all 
finance instalments  should be refunded barring any that may have been refunded through  
the settlement  calculation.
Ms W has been  deprived of her advance payment and part exchange whilst funding the car. 
These sums  should  be returned to her and in all cases where  Ms W has outlaid money and 
its being refunded  I am asking BMWFS to pay interest on that sum.
I can see that Ms W has also asked that we consider; reimbursing costs  for travel to hospital  
appointments that she says were caused by ergonomic changes and that she wanted 
compensation for having to attend these appointments and for the ill health she says shes 
experienced as a result of the problem with the car. I understand that these issues  will have 
been very distressing for Ms W and I have a great deal of sympathy for the difficulties shes  
experienced. I dont  think, however; that theres been sufficient evidence  to demonstrate that 
the problems she has experienced  have been as a direct result of the car she financed. So I 
wont be asking the business to pay anything  more in relation to these issues.
Ms W has also complained about  administrative errors by the dealership  but these arent 
things it would be fair for me to hold BMWFS responsible for and I think theyd be best 
directed to the dealership.
Ref: DRN60881474my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
1.ensure Ms W has nothing further to pay on the agreement;
2.refund  the advance  payment;
3.refund  the part exchange value;
4.refund  the settlement amount Ms W paid;
5.refund  all monthly finance instalments  less any instalments that have been refunded 
in the settlement calculation;
6.refund  all taxi, train and other transport costs  Ms W incurred from 13 September  
2018 to the date she handed the car back. Receipts to be provided by Ms W;
7.refund  the GAP  insurance and the insurance  cancellation costs Ms W incurred on 
provision of receipts;
8.pay Ms W £350 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
9.remove any adverse reports they may have made to her credit file in relation to this 
issue;
10.pay 8% simple interest per annum on all refunds  provided under  points  2 to 7 
inclusive (above) from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6088147