K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Ltd refused certain  aspects of a claim he 
made, cancelled  his policy and registered his details on an insurance  fraud  database.
background
Mr E had a home insurance policy with Lloyds. He returned to his home address after a 
period working  away to find his house had been broken into. Taps  in a downstairs bathroom 
had been left running, flooding the downstairs area. Separately, furniture and walls had been 
damaged. Various electrical items  and jewellery had also either been damaged or stolen.
Mr E phoned  Lloyds to register  a theft and malicious damage claim and they sent a claims 
assessor to check the damage. Lloyds  raised  various concerns about the claim but, after 
discussions with Mr E, settled the claim paying Mr E £15,000 nine months  later. Mr E was 
unhappy Lloyds  hadnt included all amounts hed spent refurbishing  his property, or that his 
claim for alternative accommodation (AA) had been  refused.  Lloyds continued to refuse this 
claim, and so Mr E complained to them.  During  complaint communications, Lloyds again 
explained why Mr E wasnt entitled to AA payments, prompting Mr E to provide more 
information which he said proved he was entitled to these. Lloyds reconsidered their 
decision but reached the same conclusion and declined the AA claim again.
Lloyds concluded,  when Mr E made this subsequent AA claim, it was made  with a fraudulent 
intent  Mr E was trying to claim a benefit  he knew he wasnt entitled to. And having reached  
that conclusion,  Lloyds cancelled the policy back to inception, and registered Mr Es details 
on the CIFAS fraud  database. Lloyds also, given  the policy  was now cancelled,  confirmed 
their right to seek recovery of the £15,000-odd already paid. Mr E was unhappy with this, 
saying Lloyds decision was based  on suspicion and not facts. He asked for his CIFAS 
marker to be removed, for his AA claim to be accepted, and for compensation for the time 
spent trying to deal with this issue.
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Es complaint, so he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
upheld Mr Es complaint  in part. Whilst accepting Lloyds  were right to decline Mr Es claim 
for AA, in summary she said there  wasnt enough information to say Mr E had acted 
fraudulently when submitting his claim, either  with the main parts of his claim or the extra 
claim for AA.
For this reason, our investigator said Lloyds should  remove the CIFAS fraud marker, 
reinstate the policy, and should not try to recover the £15,000  already  paid to Mr E. Our 
investigator also said that, as the policy was to be re-instated, Lloyds should also consider 
another theft of jewellery claim connected to the incident.
After discussion Lloyds  disagreed with our investigator, believing the key point  supporting 
their decision  to cancel  the policy/invoke the fraud condition  was that Mr E submitted his 
new AA claim  when  (a) there was nothing  to prove  his property wasnt habitable, and (b) no 
evidence to show he was residing at the address before the damage occurred. Without this, 
Lloyds concluded  Mr E had claimed for something  he knew he wasnt entitled to, meaning 
hed committed fraud.  So, Lloyds felt they were entitled to cancel  the policy and refuse  his 
entire claim. As Lloyds didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to reach a decision.
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN65723372I issued my provisional findings on this case on 9 September 2020. I said I was minded to 
uphold parts of Mr Es complaint.  My provisional  decision  said as follows:
The break-in took place in August 2017. I can see there  were  many exchanges between 
Lloyds and Mr E in the subsequent months.  Lloyds had concerns regarding  what  they 
considered was an inconsistent testimony  from Mr E  regarding the circumstances of the 
burglary, and particularly  regarding his residential  status. Mr E owned  another property 
which Lloyds believed  he was either  staying at (before  and after the burglary)  or able to stay 
at (after the burglary). Lloyds concluded Mr E wasnt entitled to AA payments because  of 
this. I think its clear  from reading Lloyds case notes  Mr E had been  living  elsewhere  partly 
for work reasons - before he discovered the burglary. Photos taken by the claim assessor,  in 
the days after the burglary had been  reported, strongly suggest the property  may have been  
empty for a while. I also cant  see Mr E ever confirmed where he was staying, both before or 
after the burglary.  And nor can I see hes provided any receipts/evidence  of accommodation 
costs hed incurred  after the burglary.
Lloyds also said Mr E wasnt  entitled  to AA payments because  his property wasnt  left in an 
uninhabitable state. Lloyds claims assessor concluded, after the burglary, the property had 
a working kitchen and toilet  facilities, and so was habitable. Yes, it was dirty, had a fly 
problem, and water-damaged carpets  downstairs, but Ive seen Mr E was told within days of 
the burglary these could be removed and the house  tidied.  Lloyds said the mess didnt make 
the home uninhabitable. Taken together, I think  Lloyds were right to conclude from this 
information that Mr E wasnt  entitled  to AA payments after the burglary.
There were also disputes  regarding the scope  of the work needing to be completed as a 
result of the burglary-related damage, including concern Mr E had submitted a claim for 
replacement carpets that werent damaged as a result of the break-in.
However, notwithstanding Lloyds above concerns,  they settled the claim in May 2018, 
making two payments to Mr E totalling  just over £15,000. Having read Lloyds case file, its 
clear the decision  to settle was made  only after considerable  internal discussions had taken 
place, involving underwriting and legal  departments. All the above inconsistencies were clear 
at the time and presumably taken account  of before  the decision to settle was made. 
Furthermore, Lloyds confirmed to us that, at the time of the settlement there  was no 
reason to invoke  the fraud condition.
Accordingly, Im satisfied Mr Es claim for break-in related damage wasnt  fraudulent,  and 
Lloyds were right to settle his claim  the £15,000 - in the way they did, and at the time they 
did.
So, essentially, Im satisfied Mr E hadnt  done anything up to this point to cause Lloyds to 
conclude hed acted  fraudulently, and accordingly nothing that would justify Lloyds voiding 
his policy  or registering  his details on the CIFAS  database at the time of the settlement. I 
return to this conclusion  later in this provisional decision.
Mr Es subsequent further claim for AA
But Mr E wasnt  happy  with the settlement  and raised the issue  of AA payments again. 
Lloyds again told Mr E he wasnt entitled to AA for the above  reasons. Lloyds advisor  also 
explained what makes  a property be classed as uninhabitable, mentioning a lack of toilet  
facilities or electricity in a property. Mr E responded introducing new information  the 
Ref: DRN65723373property was left without toilet facilities or electricity after the break-in. He said this made  his 
home uninhabitable, and asked Lloyds to look again to see if he qualified for AA payments.
This prompted Lloyds  to reconsider the evidence, but their stance remained the same for the 
same reasons  Mr E still wasnt entitled  to AA payments. Lloyds referred to reports 
compiled by their claim assessor, which  made no mention of toilet  damage in the upstairs 
bathroom. It did mention  damage to the facia of the electric shower unit only (with some 
exposed wires on show)  - so its clear  the bathroom  was inspected  by the assessor.  And the 
report said the downstairs  water-damage was caused by a tap in the downstairs WC left 
running, and not because  there was any damage to the toilet in the WC.
Lloyds listed all the opportunities  Mr E had to tell them about  the toilet  problems, and said 
that no mention  was made of these.  I wont repeat each of these, but I agree with Lloyds  
here. There had been many telephone  exchanges  between Lloyds and Mr E in the months  
after the break-in.  From what I can see, the upstairs toilet  issue had never been mentioned.
Ive seen all of the photos taken by the claim assessor. These appear to confirm there was 
no toilet damage in the WC but are unclear regarding  the upstairs bathroom - the only photo  
here relates  to the damaged shower facia.  However,  I think  its more likely than not, if the 
upstairs toilet was damaged/leaking, the claims assessor would have noticed and taken a 
photograph during his initial visit. I also think its more likely than not, had there been an 
upstairs toilet leak, Mr E would have mentioned this before  hed received his settlement nine 
months after the burglary. So, based  on all of the above, I havent seen any evidence  to 
conclude Mr Es property was left without  functioning  toilet  facilities after the burglary.
And I dont  think the property was left without electricity. Mr E says he switched the electric 
off because the wires were exposed  in the electric  shower unit on the wall in the bathroom  
and Ive seen  photos of this. Whilst I can see why he did this, its my understanding this was 
the only instance within the property  where  electrics  had been exposed. I dont think, this 
issue alone, is enough to say the property was left without  functioning  electricity.  It was 
working everywhere else in the property. So, taken  together, I agree Lloyds were right to 
continue to say Mr E wasnt entitled  to AA payments.
But Lloyds went further than simply refusing the re-submitted AA claim. They  said, by 
raising the new AA information, Mr E had breached the fraud  condition  within  his policy.  
They said hed made a statement he knew to be false  the property was uninhabitable 
because of broken  toilets/lack of electricity  in the hope of increasing his settlement.
And for this reason,  applying relevant  legislation and caselaw, Lloyds said it was entitled to 
cancel his policy, reserve their right to recover the settlement monies  already paid, and 
register Mr Es details  on CIFAS, an insurance  industry fraud database.
What Lloyds did next
As Ive already  said, I dont think the evidence  supports what Mr E told Lloyds  after the initial  
settlement. And I think its more likely  than not he introduced this hoping to change Lloyds 
mind regarding the declined AA element of his claim. It seems  likely he raised it in the hope 
of increasing his settlement  theres no other  reasonable  explanation for him doing this 
otherwise. So, what  options did Lloyds have  available to it after Mr E raised this new AA 
information? To answer this, I need to look at a number of factors:
The Insurance  Act 2015 (the Act)
Ref: DRN65723374Part 4, Section  12 of the Act deals with an insurance  companys remedies when  a fraudulent
claim has been made. It says:
(1) If the insured  makes  a fraudulent claim under a contract of insurance
a. the insurer  is not liable to pay the claim,
b. the insurer  may recover from the insured any sums paid by the insurer  to 
the insured in respect of the claim, and
c. in addition, the insurer may by notice to the insured treat the contract as 
having been terminated with effect from the time of the fraudulent act.
(2) If the insurer does  treat the contract as having  been terminated
a. it may refuse all liability to the insured under the contract in respect of a 
relevant event occurring  after the time of the fraudulent act, and
b. it need not return any of the premiums paid under  the contract.
But, the Act doesnt explain what makes  a claim fraudulent. For this, you have to look at the 
Fraud Act 2006 and caselaw generally. And these suggest for an act to be fraudulent,  the 
consumer will be doing/saying something  theyre  aware is dishonest and is being  said to 
make a personal gain.
Mr Es policy
I also need to look at what Mr Es policy document, under  the Fraud section, says:
If youknowingly or recklesslyprovide information  or documentation to us that is false, 
misleading or dishonestly  exaggerated in relation to a claimthen we:
- will cancel your policy from the date of the fraudulent act
- will not pay any part of a fraudulent claim or any claims arising after the date of the 
fraudulent act
- will retain any premium  you have paid
- may recover any payments made  to youin respect of a fraudulent claim, whether 
these payments were  madebefore or after the fraudulent act
- may recover any payments made  to youfor any claims  arising after the fraudulent 
act
Based on both of the above, I agree Lloyds were  entitled to cancel the policy.  This is 
because Mr E knowingly  introduced new AA information he most likely knew  to be false in 
the hope of increasing his settlement. But I dont agree Lloyds  are entitled to cancel the 
policy back to inception   they can only cancel the policy from the date of the fraudulent  act.
So, the next thing to consider is when could Lloyds cancel it from. To answer this I need to 
consider what the date of the fraudulent act was. As I said above,  Lloyds  were  content  
after a very robust internal investigation   to pay the initial claim. They said there was no 
reason to invoke  the fraud condition  at that time. Essentially, they were  satisfied  there was 
no fraudulent act by that time.
Lloyds, referring to legal  caselaw  say where a claim has been fraudulently exaggerated, 
theyd be entitled  to cancel the policy back to inception. This is because the law doesnt 
distinguish between genuine parts of a claim and the fraudulent part where  a claim has been 
exaggerated. And because the subsequent  AA claim is connected  to the initial  claim, the 
whole claim can be classed as fraudulent.
Ref: DRN65723375I agree  Mr Es new AA claim  is clearly connected to the initial  claim  its a request for AA 
costs stemming from the break-in that hed already tried (unsuccessfully) to claim for. But I 
dont agree Mr E exaggerated this part of his claim  when  submitting his new AA 
information. He wasnt trying to exaggerate a claim that had been accepted. Instead, hes 
simply tried to introduce new information  to persuade Lloyds to reconsider a claim that had 
been declined   something  Lloyds  were able to rebut  quickly by reference  to information 
they already had on file.
Lloyds have said this caused them to review  every aspect of his settled claim as well. And 
having done this, they reassessed some  of the conclusions theyd reached regarding claim 
inconsistencies I mentioned earlier. They said Mr E had made  inconsistent  statements 
throughout the claim process, including when  the property was last occupied, and there were 
differing accounts  of how the water damage  was caused. The combination  of these aspects,  
coupled with the new AA claim, supported Lloyds belief Mr E had intentionally provided  
false information to meet Lloyds AA criteria. And accordingly, when coupled  with what  the 
Act, Mr Es policy and caselaw says,  Lloyds think they were entitled to take the action they 
did.
However, I dont agree.  I dont think its fair or reasonable for Lloyds  to cancel the policy
back to inception. Essentially, all Mr E did was to introduce new information  in a post-
settlement phone call, which I think he likely knew was incorrect.  Whilst this can, I think, be
considered a fraudulent act, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Lloyds to conclude  it
taints the whole of Mr Es claim. As I said above,  Lloyds  undertook  a robust  investigation
before settling the claim and concluding  there was no fraudulent activity at that time. I think
its unfair, and unreasonable, for Lloyds  to then draw  a different conclusion  to essentially
help support their subsequent decision to take the actions they did.
So, I think its reasonable the date of the new AA claim   the information raised in one 
phone call  is the point when the fraudulent  act took place. And so, as per the Act and the 
terms of Mr Es policy, I think policy should only be cancelled from this point. It follows  that I 
think Mr Es initial  settled  claim  should be allowed to stand, and that Lloyds arent entitled to 
seek recovery of the settlement  sums  paid.
I think it also means Lloyds need to reconsider  Mr Es claim for the loss of his royal beads,  
as this was submitted as part of the main claim - so before the new AA date when the policy  
would be cancelled from.
The Fraud  database
I now need to address  the CIFAS element of Mr Es complaint. Lloyds registered  Mr Es 
details with CIFAS after deciding to void his policy.
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency. It operates a database which  allows CIFAS members  
generally financial businesses  to record information about their customers. This 
information is available for all CIFAS members to view. All CIFAS  member businesses must  
operate within the terms of the national  Fraud Database Handbook, which  explains  that 
members can only record  information on the database if its supported by evidence  and 
meets four burden  of proof elements. These are:
- There  are reasonable  grounds to believe  fraud has been  committed or attempted
- Evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such  that the matter could 
confidently be reported to the Police
Ref: DRN65723376- The conduct of the person being reported  against  must meet  certain case  type 
criteria (for the purpose  of this case,  this means  a false  insurance claim)
- The member must have  rejected, withdrawn  or terminated a product on the basis  of 
Fraud
A business cant apply  a CIFAS marker  based on suspicion. It needs evidence to back  up 
what is being alleged  and a criminal offence must be identifiable.  Looking  at each of these 
four elements, its clear the circumstances here satisfy the third and fourth  elements. And, on 
the basis Mr E raised the new AA claim to increase  his settlement, more  likely than not 
knowing the information was incorrect, I agree the first element is also met.
That leaves the second element. I dont think the circumstances here allow this element to 
be met. I dont think Mr Es behaviour in the post-settlement/complaint phone call is such  to 
satisfy what is effectively  a criminal  test. Whilst the evidence Ive mentioned above points to 
fraudulent intent on a more likely than not basis, I dont think  its clear, relevant or rigorous  
enough to conclude on a beyond reasonable doubt basis  which would  need  to be the 
case to be confidently reported to the Police. I note that no Police  referral  has been made.
This being the case, I dont think all four elements are capable  of being satisfied. And 
accordingly, I dont think Lloyds are entitled to register Mr Es details on the CIFAS 
database. So, I think their entry  needs to be removed.
The effect of Lloyds actions on Mr E
Having reached  the above conclusion, I need to consider the effect Lloyds actions  may have 
had on Mr E. Hes told us that hes experienced emotional and financial distress as a result  
although no specific details have been provided to show any financial  impact. However, 
whilst I agree this episode is likely to have caused  Mr E distress, Im also conscious  it would 
likely have been avoided  had Mr E not introduced  the new AA information  when he did. 
Accordingly, I dont  think its reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay Mr E any compensation for the 
distress he may have experienced during and after the claim process.
I concluded by summarising I thought Mr E introduced the new AA information in the hope 
Lloyds would revisit their decision  to refuse  AA payments as part of his main claim. I thought 
its more likely than not he knew this information was incorrect,  and Lloyds was entitled to 
refuse the AA claim, both in the main settlement and as part of the new AA claim. I thought 
Lloyds was entitled to cancel Mr Es policy because of this, but only from the point the new 
AA information  was raised.  Mr Es initial claim didnt contain anything  to suggest any 
fraudulent activity, and Lloyds shouldnt take steps  to recover  the settlement already paid. 
And because I didnt think Mr Es behaviour in advancing the new AA information met the 
test laid out in the third burden  of proof  element contained within the Fraud Database 
Handbook, Lloyds  must  remove  Mr Es entry on that database relating to this claim.
response to my provisional  decision
Mr E acknowledged  receipt of the provisional decision, advising he was going  to speak with 
his solicitor regarding  its contents. Ive received  no further comments from Mr E, either 
accepting or rejecting my provisional  findings. Lloyds responded asking me to consider 
some final points before issuing my decision, which I can summarise as follows:
Recovering the settlement monies
 
Ref: DRN65723377Lloyds advise they didnt terminate the policy from the date of the fraudulent act as Mr E had 
already cancelled his direct  debit by this point,  with the policy  cancelled  with effect from 
March 2018 due to non-payment  of premiums. Lloyds say Mr Es decision to cancel the 
policy should have  no bearing on their entitlement  to recover  their costs. And that the AA 
claim was part of the main  claim, and not a separate one. They  also comment that the Fraud  
Act provides a remedy  whereby  if a claim is tainted by fraud, a policyholder will forfeit  the 
whole claim.  Lloyds say a fraudulent act was committed  against Mr Es policy,  so they can 
say his claim was tainted by fraud.  And according  to Lloyds, they may then recover any 
payments made, irrespective of whether those payments were made before or after the 
fraudulent act.
CIFAS database entry removal
Lloyds believe the facts of this case meet the criteria for entry  on the Fraud Database, 
saying they consider referring all CIFAS  cases to the Fraud  Dept  of the City of London 
Police (COLP). However,  they explain they only do this in certain circumstances,  essentially  
because they are conscious of COLPs resource limitations. In this case, Lloyds  recognised 
that Mr E had suffered a genuine loss which he tried to exaggerate, rather than submit a 
wholly invented claim. As such it was not considered a priority to refer the case  to COLP.
The royal  beads  claim
Lloyds say the decision to exclude  the beads  claim from settlement was due to lack of 
substantiation. However,  as Lloyds maintain the claim was fraudulent, for the reasons set 
out above, they dont believe they need  to reassess  the claim.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr E has not responded substantively to my provisional findings, I only need to address  
the comments made by Lloyds.
Recovering the settlement monies
I want to begin  by clarifying that I agree with Lloyds when they say it wasnt  a new AA claim 
that Mr E raised, which set in motion the subsequent CIFAS and policy voiding actions that 
followed. As I said in my provisional decision,  hed raised the issue  of AA during the claim 
progression period, and it had been  declined. After the settlement was paid, he was asking 
Lloyds to revisit that decline, and tried to introduce  new information to support that. 
I also now note the policy had already been  effectively cancelled   by virtue  of premium non-
payment, some months  before the settlement was agreed. So my comments and rationale 
behind why I felt Lloyds could only cancel the policy back to the date of the fraudulent act 
are redundant. However, I dont think that affects what I think  is the key issue  here, namely 
whether I think its fair or reasonable for Lloyds to try and recover  the settlement monies they 
paid to Mr E. And having considered Lloyds response, I still dont think  it is.  
I accept the points Lloyds make  regarding what the Fraud Act permits them to do in these 
circumstances. Its also important to consider what Mr Es policy allows  Lloyds to do, and 
further what is fair and reasonable  here. The policy says Lloyds will cancel the policy  from 
Ref: DRN65723378the date of a fraudulent act  a moot point given the above. It also says Lloyds will not pay 
any part of a fraudulent claim or any claim arising  after the date of the fraudulent act. But 
both the policy and the Act say Lloyds  may (not will) recover any payments made  in respect  
of a fraudulent  claim, whether paid before or after the fraudulent act. There  is a choice. So 
the question remains  whether Lloyds  exercised that choice in a fair and reasonable manner.
I return to the comments made  in the provisional decision  Lloyds  accepted the main 
claim, and this was after a detailed internal investigation. The subject  of AA had been raised 
and declined  as part of that process. It wasnt a new subject. Lloyds were  satisfied  the main 
claim was genuine.  The only thing that changed,  essentially, was that Mr E appears to have 
responded to comments made in a post-settlement phone call by introducing  new 
information  the lack of a toilet and electricity   in the hope of Lloyds revisiting the AA 
decline. Mr E didnt introduce any new, or fraudulent, evidence as such. And as Ive said 
previously, this new information  was easily capable of being rebutted,  by reference to 
photos taken,  and inspection reports from the time of the claim. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think its a fair or reasonable outcome for 
Mr E to have to repay  the £15,000 settlement  made in relation to an accepted genuine 
claim  essentially because of what he said in a post-settlement phone call. So I remain of 
the view that Lloyds cant pursue Mr E for the repayment of his claim settlement. 
CIFAS database entry removal
In Lloyds response, they focus on my comment that the matter  wasnt reported  to the COLP. 
I acknowledge the point Lloyds makes here  that COLP dont have the resources to 
prosecute every insurance fraud case that makes its way onto CIFAS. And I accept its 
Lloyds decision regarding how they choose to prioritise their cases  for COLP  
referral/reporting purposes. But I dont think thats  the key issue here. 
I think the key issue  is whether the evidence here is such  as to satisfy  the second  burden of 
proof element in the Fraud Database Handbook.  And Lloyds hasnt said anything specific  in 
their response about this or questioned my conclusion that Mr Es post-settlement  
behaviour didnt appear to satisfy a criminal test. As such, Ive not seen anything  further  from 
Lloyds that makes me change my mind  on this point and that being the case, I remain of the 
view Mr Es entry on the CIFAS fraud database  must be removed.
The royal  beads  claim
Mr E had submitted  this claim before the settlement was paid, and before the policy  was 
voided by virtue of premium non-payment.  I acknowledge that Lloyds refused the claim 
based on a lack of substantiation, as opposed to any reason connected with the new AA 
dispute. I agree that Lloyds dont need to reconsider this claim any further. The policy  says 
Lloyds will not pay any part of a fraudulent  claim after the date of a fraudulent act. And so 
whilst this claim was submitted before the fraudulent  act occurred, it hadnt been settled by 
that date. I think Lloyds is entitled  to apply the terms of Mr Es policy and refuse to 
reconsider this claim.  So I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further in this regard.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Es complaint, and require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Ltd to do the following:
Ref: DRN65723379-Remove Mr Es entry on the CIFAS fraud database, relating to this claim
-Not pursue Mr E to recover the settlement monies already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Mark Evans 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6572337