K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans Sunny provided to Mr S between October 2016 
and February 2017. Mr Ss borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest  Repayment
1 06/10/2016 Outstanding 14 £2,500.00 £343.46
2 18/02/2017 29/03/2018 14 £400.00 £396.10*
*This represents  the highest  contractual repayments  due when this loan was opened 
alongside the previous  outstanding  loan.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint and thought the loans one and two shouldnt  have
been given as Mr S as he had existing pay day loans and was having issues  managing his 
finances. Sunny disagreed that it was wrong to approve loan 1. The adjudicator outlined this 
offer to Mr S but he chose  not to accept it. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of 
time during  which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN66560412There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Our adjudicator explained that had Sunny  carried out proportionate checks  for loan 1 and 2 
it would  have shown  Mr S was having issues managing his money.  Sunny agrees it should  
have carried out more checks than it did for loan 2. I think both loans shouldnt  have  been  
given to Mr S and Ill explain why.
Sunny says it carried out checks on Mr S when he applied for loans  1 and 2. For loan 1 it 
says it verified Mr Ss income  and expenditure and he had sufficient disposable  income to 
repay it. But I dont think these checks went far enough here as Mr S was making  a 
commitment to making loan repayments  for 14 months each time. 
I think if Sunny had carried out proportionate checks it would have seen that Mr S had other 
existing short-term loans,  all taken  out within months of each  other. And hed had been 
borrowing and repaying significant amounts to these loans and it looks like this would  
continue going  forward. 
So its reasonable to say that Mr S was having  issues managing his finances and it seems 
likely he was relying on short term credit  to cover ongoing shortfalls.  So Mr S wasnt in a 
position to take on loans  1 and 2 and repay them in a sustainable manner.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 1 and 2 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Sunny is not able to buy the debts back then Sunny should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
Ref: DRN66560413A.)Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made  by Mr S 
towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld  loans without an 
outstanding balance, not including anything that has been  refunded.
B.)Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by Mr  
S which were considered  as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally  
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.)Sunny  should  remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made by Mr S as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans.  If this results in Mr S 
having made overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Sunny should  then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D.)If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  
in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance  then you should try to agree  an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr S.
E.)Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  it has recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to loans  1 and 2. If Sunny has sold any of the loans it should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited should pay put things right for Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr S to accept  or reject my decision 
before 22 February  2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6656041