K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that AvantCredit  of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
AvantCredit gave  a single loan to Mrs P. She borrowed £13,500 in June 2015  and agreed  to 
repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments. Mrs P told AvantCredit that she wanted to use the 
loan to help consolidate some of her other debts. A balance remained outstanding on the 
loan when Mrs P made her complaint.
Mrs Ps complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  the checks 
AvantCredit did before agreeing the loan were sufficient. And she thought  that better checks  
would have shown  the lender that Mrs P was unlikely to be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.  So she thought  the complaint should be upheld and asked AvantCredit 
to pay Mrs P some compensation.
AvantCredit didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs P accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time AvantCredit gave this loan to Mrs P required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what  
she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred  to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so AvantCredit had to think  about whether  
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs P. 
In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to ensure  that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mrs P undue  difficulty or adverse consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for 
AvantCredit to simply think about  the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mrs P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN65800462the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mrs P.
AvantCredit gathered  some information  from Mrs P before it agreed  the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit  file to review  
the extent of her other credit commitments.
Mrs P was entering into a significant commitment with AvantCredit.  She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I would expect that AvantCredit would 
want to gather, and independently check,  some detailed information about  Mrs Ps financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. Id generally think that the checks  Ive 
described above were  proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender needs to react  
appropriately to the information shown by those checks. And that might  lead to a lender  
concluding that it needs more information  before deciding whether or not to agree the loan. 
Or it might lead to a lender simply declining  the application without further  checks. And that 
is what I think should have happened  here.
The credit check that AvantCredit  performed showed that Mrs P was very heavily indebted to 
a range of lenders across  a number of credit  accounts. Mrs P had said that she wanted to 
use the loan from AvantCredit to consolidate  some of her other  debt. But at the time she 
asked for the loan it would  have covered less than one third of her outstanding debts. Whilst 
it is true that might have reduced  the amounts she needed to pay each month,  that doesnt 
automatically lead to a conclusion  that the new loan could be repaid sustainably.
Mrs Ps borrowing  history  suggests that she had taken two similar consolidation loans  from 
other lenders in the previous few years   loans that were still outstanding. Both times she 
appears to have used  those loans to repay other  short-term borrowing. But shortly 
afterwards she started  to take short term loans once again. That would suggest that she was 
finding it difficult to repay  the consolidation loans in a sustainable manner.
And I think that AvantCredits checks suggested  that Mrs P had re-entered that borrowing 
cycle once again. Whilst the two consolidation loans were  still in payment she now had four 
credit cards that were  at their (not insignificant) limits. She had four other short-term loans. 
And she had overdrafts on two different bank accounts. I think  it should have been clear that 
Mrs P wasnt  able to manage her existing credit in a sustainable manner let alone be able to 
take on additional expenditure.
Ref: DRN65800463I have noted that AvantCredit says that Mrs P managed her repayments on the loan well for 
quite some time  it says this demonstrates that its assessment that she was able to afford  
the loan was correct. But I dont agree. AvantCredit needed to ensure that Mrs P would be 
able to repay the loan sustainably. I think all the other lenders might  suggest  their lending  
decisions were reasonable too as Mrs Ps credit  file didnt contain evidence  of late or missed 
payments. But as Ive demonstrated above,  there is no way that those loans  could be 
described as being  repaid in a sustainable  manner.
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for AvantCredit  to give this loan to Mrs P. I think  the 
checks it did suggested it was unlikely that she would be able to repay any new borrowing in 
a sustainable  manner. AvantCredit  needs  to pay Mrs P some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think AvantCredit  should have agreed to lend to Mrs P in June 2015. So AvantCredit 
should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mrs P made towards  this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mrs Ps loan account as Ive directed results in Mrs P effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mrs Ps loan account leaves an amount  of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind AvantCredit that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs P.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Ps credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit  to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and direct  AvantCredit of UK, LLC to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6580046