K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the way Nationwide Building  Society administered  his mortgage 
account. Nationwide told him they hadnt  always administered his mortgage account as they 
should have done, and so have re-worked  the account to put this right.
Mr C doesnt think the way they re-worked the account accurately reflects the impact  their 
errors had on him. It doesnt take into account  the legal fees he incurred as a result of 
Nationwide taking possession action, nor does it take into account the distress and 
inconvenience these  errors caused  him. So he feels he should be compensated further.
background
In June 2018, Nationwide wrote to Mr C. They  said that following guidance from the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), they were  contacting him about the way theyd 
administered his mortgage. They said that between 25 June 2010 and 7 October 2015, they 
automatically included  the mortgage  arrears balance when calculating  his monthly 
payments, but continued to take steps  to collect the arrears separately.
Nationwide said theyd  reviewed Mr Cs mortgage,  and adjusted  the account to what it would 
have been had they calculated the monthly  payments correctly, not including  the arrears 
balance. They refunded the amount hed overpaid  on his monthly payments, which they said 
was £790.30,  and the difference in his mortgage balance,  which  was £0.08. They  also paid 
compensation of £7.27, which was 8% interest  they said Mr C could have lost on the amount 
hed overpaid  since clearing the arrears.
 
Mr C complained to Nationwide, as he felt their offer didnt take into account  the financial 
loss he incurred as a result of their actions, or the stress this caused, specifically from the 
court action they took. He also wasnt happy  with the amount offered as he didnt feel it was 
right.
Nationwide said they were satisfied theyd re-worked the account  in line with the FCA 
guidance. They also said that due to the financial difficulties Mr C had experienced in 2009 
and 2012, they would  have taken the same  possession action based on the payment  history 
of the account,  regardless  of whether theyd  included the arrears in his contractual  monthly 
payment.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service, and our investigator looked into things. He didnt 
uphold the complaint, and explained that Nationwide had put Mr C back  in the position he 
would have been in, had they administered the account correctly.
Mr C disagreed, so the complaints been  passed to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide have explained that they didnt administer Mr Cs mortgage account  as they 
should have done between 2010 and 2015. So its now for me to decide whether what 
theyve done to put things  right is fair, given Mr Cs individual circumstances.
Ref: DRN63409762Nationwide have sent us their calculations  to show how theyve  re-worked Mr Cs mortgage 
account. Mr Cs also provided  evidence to show the amounts hes paid to the mortgage  over 
the years. Having  carefully considered all the information provided by both parties, Im 
satisfied Nationwide  have  put Mr Cs mortgage account back into the position it would have 
been, had they done things right.
However, Mr C feels that Nationwide should  also compensate  him for the financial  loss and 
stress hes experienced as a result of the way they administered the mortgage. He doesnt 
think Nationwide would  have taken action to repossess his house,  had they administered  his 
account correctly.  He says that if theyd included the arrears balance  in his monthly  
payments, he shouldnt have had any arrears  on the mortgage account, and so Nationwide  
shouldnt have taken  action to repossess his house because  of this.
I understand why Mr C is upset about whats happened. I can see hes been through a 
difficult time over the years, which has unfortunately affected his ability  to pay his full 
monthly mortgage payments at times. Ive considered what  hes said carefully  but Im 
persuaded that its likely  Nationwide  would  still have taken action to possess his house  even 
if theyd administered his account correctly. 
This is because whilst the contractual monthly  payments were slightly  higher than they ought  
to have been, had Nationwide done things as they should have, Mr C still wasnt  paying  
enough towards the mortgage in order to stay out of arrears.  So before Nationwide  took 
legal action, and a Suspended Possession  Order was issued by the courts, the mortgage 
account would still have been  in arrears regardless of Nationwides errors. And so Im not 
satisfied the way Nationwide administered the account is the reason Mr C incurred legal 
fees, or went through the stressful process of going  to court.  As a result, it wouldnt  be fair to 
ask Nationwide  to refund the costs incurred  because of this.
Nationwide agreed  to manually add Mr Cs arrears  to his main  mortgage balance in 2014 at 
his request. And from this point onwards, Mr Cs kept the mortgage account up to date. Hes 
complained that he should have been  in this position  sooner, as Nationwide had already 
been capitalising the arrears. 
Ive carefully considered  the transaction history  of Mr Cs account to decide if I think  
Nationwide should  have formally  capitalised Mr Cs arrears sooner than they did. Ive also 
considered the contact  notes for the account.  In 2012, the court  ordered that Mr C pay 
Nationwide £100  on top of his contractual monthly payments in order to avoid repossession  
of his property. Whilst Mr C did pay this on many occasions, it was not always met every 
month  even when  considering the correct monthly  payment  that Nationwide  should have 
been charging. 
The contact  notes show that Nationwide asked Mr C to bring these  payments  up to date 
before they would consider formally capitalising his arrears. It looks  as though once  Mr C did 
this, Nationwide  considered whether he could afford to capitalise his arrears  and having 
done so  they did as requested. Im not persuaded  Nationwide should have formally 
capitalised the arrears before Mr C had demonstrated that he could make the necessary 
payments to the account in order to comply with the court order.  So I wont be asking 
Nationwide to do anything  more than they have to put things right.
I have no doubt  Mr C would have found  managing his mortgage  difficult and stressful when  
he was experiencing financial difficulties. But having  considered  everything, for the reasons 
Ive explained,  Im not satisfied this stress was caused as a result of the way Nationwide  
Ref: DRN63409763administered his account. So I wont be asking them to pay Mr C any additional 
compensation as a result.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6340976