K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Charter Court Financial Services Limited delayed a transfer of money 
from her savings account.
background
Ms P had an on-line  savings account  with Charter which, as at November  2018,  contained  
just over £18,000. The terms and conditions required 60 days notice of withdrawals.
On 13 November 2018, she contacted Charter and said shed found an account which paid 
higher interest  (1.47%  as opposed to 1.2%) and wished to transfer her savings.
During that call, she was told  in error  that the 60 days notice would begin as of that date.  
If that had been  the case, the transfer date would have been  12 January 2019.
In 2017, Ms P had contacted Charter to ask that they action requests from her only if 
received in handwriting and accompanied by a password of her choosing.  It seems Ms P 
was worried about  the security  of her on-line transactions.  Charter  had agreed to this despite 
the fact that their accounts were  on-line accounts.
Also on 13 November Charter received a letter  from Ms P saying she wished to review  her 
savings account,  but giving no clear  instruction to Charter about what they should do. 
Charter emailed Ms P at this point to ask her to contact them to clarify her instructions.
In response, on 23 November 2018, Ms P spoke to Charter  again. She confirmed she 
wanted her money  transferred out of the account.  And she was told the 60 days notice 
period would start from when her written  instructions  were received.
Charter received the written request  on 28 November 2018. On 11 December 2018, Charter  
wrote to Ms P to say her funds would be transferred on 22 January 2019. It appears  they 
had been generous to Ms P by starting the 60 days notice from the date of the phone call on 
23 November 2018.
On 13 December 2018, Ms P contacted Charter again. She said she hadnt realised the 
account would close if she  in effect   emptied it. And she asked them to leave £1 in the 
account rather than transfer the full amount.
Charter wrote to Ms P on 20 December to accept the new instruction and to say the 60 days  
notice would therefore begin  again   from 13 December 2018.  So the transfer would now 
take place on 11 February  2019.
Ms P objected to the transfer date being  re-set,  given  the minor  change in her instructions. 
So Charter  agreed   during a phone call on 29 December  2018  to revert to the original 
transfer date  22 January 2019.
At the end of that call, Ms P queried  that date, saying she thought it had been 12 January 
2019 (60 days from her original phone  call on 13 November 2018). Charter said theyd look 
into this and get back to her, but they thought it would be 22 January 2019.
On 4 January  2019, Charter wrote to Ms P to confirm the transfer  date would be 22 January 
2019.
Ref: DRN67595402Ms P complained to Charter that they intended  to transfer her money 10 days later than 
theyd originally agreed, which would cost her the additional interest she would gain from the 
higher interest  account into which she was transferring her savings.
Charter didnt uphold  Ms Ps complaint, so she brought it to us. Our investigator looked  into it 
and thought Charter should  have  transferred  the money on 12 January 2019. She thought  
they should pay Ms P £25 for the lost additional  interest and for her trouble and upset.
Charter disagreed  and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. Because I disagreed 
with our investigators view, I decided  to issue a provisional decision before I make  my final 
decision. This allowed both parties to comment on my thinking  before I make my final 
decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services  last word on the case.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should clarify one thing  first of all. I believe  Ms P thinks  the 10 day delay in the 
transfer was caused by her request to keep the account open  with £1 in it  which 
meant Charter reset the transfer date taking the 60 days notice from her updated 
request.
This isnt the case. When Charter spoke to her on 29 December 2018, they agreed to 
revert to the original  notice period  begun  when she made her first request. So the 
change Ms P made  to her request on 13 December 2018  asking Charter to keep 
the account open  is a complete red herring. It has no effect at all on the eventual 
date of transfer.
I wanted to make this clear because theres been some confusion  about it throughout 
our investigation  and Charter have been  understandably keen that we understand 
exactly what happened.
So, Ms Ps money was transferred 10 days after she was promised in the initial call 
on 13 November 2019 because Charter needed her written  instruction to proceed  
as per Ms Ps own instructions to them in 2017. Their initial error was that their 
operator didnt  realise that was the situation when she spoke to Ms P on 
13 November 2018.
That confusion is in part caused by Ms P wanting to run an on-line account through  
handwritten paper communications  which Charter agreed to despite the fact their 
processes were designed to facilitate on-line transactions only.
I should also say that when  Ms P spoke  to Charters operator on 13 November 2018, 
she should have  been aware  that Charter wouldnt accept instructions unless they 
were in writing  because  thats what shed asked them  to do.
Ref: DRN67595403After that point, Charter were very clear that the transfer date would be 22 January 
2019. They  told Ms P this on 23 November 2018 (by phone), 11 December 2018 (by 
letter), 29 December 2018 (by phone)  and 4 January 2019 (by letter).
So, I dont think Charter are responsible for the 10 day delay in the transfer of funds. 
And I think they were  very clear about what the transfer date would be at all points 
after the original  phone  call on 13 November 2018.
I know this will be disappointing for Ms P but on that basis Im minded not to uphold  
her complaint about the delay in the transfer. If its any consolation  to her, I should  
point out that the additional interest   she got 0.27%  more  with her new account - on 
her £18,000  over 10 days amounts to around £1.50.
Just for clarification,  Ms P has also said that Charter didnt tell her about additional 
charges theyd apply  if she kept the account open  with £1 in it.
Charter have pointed  out they wont charge Ms P for having an account with £1 in it. 
They will charge her  as their terms and conditions make clear   if she makes 
certain transactions using that account. Unless Ms P intends to electronically transfer 
less than £1 to a third party using that account,  she wont be charged.
Again, I cant  see any reason to suggest  Charter have acted unfairly  or unreasonably  
towards Ms P when they accepted her instruction to leave  the account  open with £1 
in it.
And for those reasons,  my provisional decision was that Ms Ps complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Charter havent responded to my provisional decision. I assume this is because they agree 
with my provisional findings.
Ms P has provided further comments. She thinks weve simply accepted Charters  version of 
events. And shes expressed  again  her concerns about the security of her account with 
Charter and attempts she believes third parties may have made to access it in some way.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive taken into account  Ms Ps 
comments on my provisional decision.
I dont accept Ms Ps suggestion that weve simply taken Charters  version of events to be 
true. 
Ms P hasnt disputed the dates of the various  communications and transactions  between  
herself and Charter. And she hasnt  provided  any detail about what she believes to be 
inaccurate in my description  of the events in question.
Ref: DRN67595404In any case, weve seen copies of the letters and emails between Ms P and Charter. And 
Ive listened to the relevant call recordings. My provisional decision was based on that 
objective evidence  and not any unsubstantiated  comments from Charter.  
If a third party was attempting to access Ms Ps account, they appear not to have 
succeeded. Theres no evidence of any unauthorised access. And Charter transferred the 
full amount in the account (less £1), so no money was missing.
In any case, Ms Ps complaint - as presented to Charter  and to us  didnt make  any 
allegations about unauthorised access to her account or to the information Charter hold 
about her.
So, in summary,  theres no reason for me to change my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019. 
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6759540