K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the charge thats been  made by Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited, trading  as Volkswagen Finance, for damage to a car that she returned  at the end of 
her hire agreement. She also complains about  the service that she received from 
Volkswagen Finance and shes being  helped with her complaint  by her husband.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs M under a hire agreement with Volkswagen Finance that she 
signed in March 2015. She contacted Volkswagen Finance in March 2018 to book an 
inspection and collection of her car as her agreement was ending. She was given a link to a 
third partys  website so that she could book it online. The car was collected  and inspected  by 
a third party on behalf of Volkswagen Finance in April 2018. The inspection  report  identified  
damage to the cars bumper, rear doors and all four wheels and recommended a charge of 
£475.20. Mrs M was charged that amount for the damage so she complained  to the dealer 
who contacted  Volkswagen Finance about the charge in the first week  of May 2018. She 
complained to Volkswagen Finance about the charge in June 2018 but wasnt  satisfied  with 
its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that 
Volkswagen Finance wasnt liable for the inspection and collection taking place at a 
dealership and she though that it was reasonable to assume that that arrangement wouldve 
been organised between  Mrs M and the dealership. She thought  that Volkswagen Finance 
had given Mrs M reasonable notice in relation to the charges that had been  applied and she 
was satisfied that the charges had been applied fairly and in line with the British  Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association guidelines. So she didnt think  that Volkswagen Finance had 
done anything  wrong.
Mrs Ms husband  on her behalf  - has asked for this complaint  to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says,  in summary,  that:
the dealer  made all the arrangements for the collection of the car and the inspection 
was arranged without  them  present   they wouldve attended if theyd been informed 
of where the inspection was to take place;
they werent shown  the inspection report, didnt sign it and didnt  agree  to it;
they werent given  the right to have  any repairs done by their own vendors;
the first they heard of the charges was three months after the car was taken back 
and after theyd  signed for their new car; and 
hes supplied pictures of the condition of the car the day it went  back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Volkswagen Finances contact notes show that it was contacted by Mrs M in March 2018  as 
she wanted to book an inspection and collection of her car. Those  notes also show  that an 
attempt was made to transfer her to the third party but as that wasnt  successful she was 
given a link to its website  so that she could  book it online. Mrs Ms husband says that the 
inspection and collection was arranged by the dealer. That would not be normal  practice  but 
it seems from the evidence that the dealer considered Mrs M and her husband to be good 
Ref: DRN68367172customers and for that reason the dealer became  involved  in these arrangements. But that 
isnt something for which Volkswagen Finance was responsible or for which its liable. 
The car was inspected by the third party on behalf  of Volkswagen  Finance in early April 2018 
and the third party then collected  the car from the dealer  the following day. Theres no 
requirement for a customer  to be present when a car is inspected or for the inspection  report  
to be signed by the customer. 
Mrs M had agreed in the hire agreement to:  return the Vehicle to us at the end of the 
Hiring Period in good  repair and condition  except for fair wear and tear (as defined in the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association Fair Wear and Tear Guide) . So when the 
car was returned it needed to be in good repair and condition and she would be liable for any 
damage to the car that wasnt fair wear and tear. And there was no requirement for the car to 
be returned to Mrs M after it had been  inspected  for her to have  the damage repaired.
The inspection report records the cars  mileage as being 32,471 miles at that time. And it 
identified a scratched  bumper,  two dented  rear doors and four scratched wheels. The report 
included photos  of that damage and gave an estimated  cost of the repairs  of £475.20.  It 
noted that the condition  of the car was below  average. The photos in the report show  
damage to the cars bumper, both rear doors  and all four wheels. Im not persuaded that that 
damage would reasonably  be considered  to be fair wear and tear in accordance with the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association guidelines. So I consider that its fair and 
reasonable for Volkswagen Finance to charge  Mrs M for that damage. And Im not 
persuaded that the charges that its made  are excessive. 
Volkswagen Finance charged that amount to Mrs M. Mrs Ms husband says that they werent  
told about the charges for three months. But Volkswagen Finances contact notes show that 
the dealer contacted it about  the charges in early  May 2018  - a month after the car had been 
inspected - and said that the customer had asked if the charges could be reviewed. And 
Mrs M contacted Volkswagen Finance  about the charges in June 2018  just over two 
months after the car had been  inspected. So I consider it to be more  likely than not that 
Mrs M knew  about the charges in May 2018 and Im not persuaded that there was an unfair  
or unreasonable delay in Volkswagen Finance charging her for the damage.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Volkswagen  Finance has acted 
incorrectly in connection with the inspection  and collection of the car or the charge that its 
made for the damage. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances 
for me to require  Volkswagen Finance  to waive or reduce  the charge that its made to Mrs M 
 or to take any other  action  in response  to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019. 
Ref: DRN68367173Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6836717