K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  has handled his van 
insurance claim. Specifically hes unhappy  with the valuation, compensation paid and 
information he was given regarding his future premiums.
background
Mr F had a van insurance policy with Admiral.  In 2018 he had a collision in his van. 
Following the collision, the van was repaired and returned to Mr F. Mr F was unhappy with 
the quality of the repairs and complained  to Admiral. Admiral  appointed an engineer to look 
at the van and he found the repairs werent of a good standard. Admiral upheld Mr Fs 
complaint and paid him £100  as compensation for the distress and inconvenience that had 
been caused and £30 for petrol used.
Admiral arranged for the van to be sent to another repairer Mr F chose for further inspection. 
The engineer carried out a further  inspection once the van had been partially dismantled. He 
found that further rectification work would be required. Admiral wrote to Mr F explaining what 
had happened  and paid him an additional  £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that had been caused.  
The proposed rectification  work  didnt take place as an agreement was made  with the 
original approved repairer to purchase Mr Fs van. Mr F accepted the settlement figure 
following a conversation with Admiral.  Hes said he was told his future premiums wouldnt be 
affected if he accepted the figure  from the approved repairer. 
Mr F then complained to Admiral as his renewal  quote had increased.  He didnt think  his 
renewal quote  shouldve increased because  of what he was told when he had previously 
spoken to Admiral. Admiral didnt  uphold his complaint. They said even though hed been 
given incorrect information,  all claims can impact  premiums. They apologised  for the error  
and said they should have  explained the claim was likely to affect  his future  premiums.
Unhappy with their response, Mr F brought his complaint to this service. He also complained  
about the amount hed been paid for the van and the amount of compensation hed been  
paid by Admiral. He reiterated that he thought he wouldnt  have incurred  an increase in his 
premiums. And he thought he was pressured  to accept  the amount theyd offered for his van 
even though similar vans were being  sold online for more.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs concerns. She thought the settlement for his van and the 
compensation hed received was fair and reasonable.  But she agreed  that Mr F had been 
misled on the call with Admiral. However she thought he hadnt suffered any financial loss as 
he cancelled  his policy with Admiral and bought a policy through another  insurer. Mr F didnt 
agree with her opinion  and asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see how strongly Mr F feels  about 
this so I know he will be disappointed with my decision. But I hope  my findings  help him to 
understand why Ive reached this decision.
Ref: DRN63023882the value of the van
Our approach regarding  complaints about  valuations is that we dont decide what the market  
value is. We consider whether or not the insurer has offered a fair and reasonable amount. 
We usually do this by checking if the insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with 
relevant trade guides. We also consider information, other than trade guides, such  as 
adverts. But we place most weight on the guides as theyre based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices, so theyre more reliable  than individual adverts. Sale prices  are often 
lower after negotiations take place.
Mr Fs policy makes  specific reference to how much he will be paid for his van. It says If we 
give you a cash sum,  the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle The policy 
provides a definition of market value as The cost of replacing your vehicle,  with one of a 
similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the 
loss.
There is a slight difference in Mr Fs circumstances to what usually happens. This is because  
he was paid by the approved repairer and not the insurer. However I think  it was a 
reasonable course of action and Im satisfied the process followed was intended to reduce 
the amount recorded against  Mr Fs claim. Some insurers take the cost of claims into 
account when  setting premiums.
Mr F was paid £19,862 for his van. Mr F believes this figure  should  be higher because  of 
prices hes seen for similar  vans online.  In deciding whether  Admiral  have acted  reasonably 
in valuing his van, Ive considered the approach  they have  taken and reviewed the 
engineers report.  I can see that the engineer has based his valuation on a trade guide as I 
would expect. Ive checked three motor trade guides  and they give an average market  value 
for Mr Fs van of £19,784. Thats  very close to what Mr F was paid. So Im satisfied he was 
given a fair valuation  for his van and I wont be asking Admiral to pay any extra.
the phone  call
The key facts about the information given to Mr F in the phone  call arent in dispute. Admiral  
have acknowledged  that Mr F was given incorrect information. And they accept they could 
have explained  the issue about the impact of the settlement  on future premiums more 
clearly. However it seems that Admiral were trying  to help Mr F by not settling directly with 
him. By settling through the approved repairer, they tried to reduce the amount of Mr Fs 
claim which seems  reasonable.
Mr F says he only accepted the amount  offered as a settlement because  he feels he was 
told by Admiral that it wouldnt affect  his future  premiums. I think its most likely that Mr F 
hasnt suffered any loss because  of the information  he was given.  As Ive said above,  the 
settlement amount offered  was fair. And despite  what he was told, the claim would  have 
been recorded against him as he was at fault.  And this could have had an impact on the cost 
of future motor insurance policies he took out.
While I appreciate Mr F is unhappy that he was given incorrect information, Admiral  have  
apologised for their error and Im satisfied  they do not need to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN63023883the compensation
I appreciate it must have  been frustrating for Mr F to have to return  his van for repairs. 
Admiral initially failed  to repair  the van properly. Mr F returned  it feeling  it was unsafe and 
poorly repaired. It was then about  four months  until Admiral  agreed that he could be paid a 
cash settlement for the van. This was probably quite an inconvenience  for him.
Mr F has pointed out he used the van to transport his grandchildren when it wasnt 
roadworthy. Im relieved to see there was no harm caused to Mr F or his grandchildren 
because the van wasnt repaired properly. And if there had been  any harm  caused we would 
have certainly taken this into consideration. But we dont award compensation for things that 
could have happened but didnt.
Admiral have acknowledged that the process  was distressing for Mr F and paid Mr F £280 in 
compensation and expenses. Taking everything  into account, I think  the amount paid by 
Admiral is a reasonable sum. Im therefore not asking  Admiral to pay any additional 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 November  2019.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6302388