K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) didnt give her a choice of 
solicitors under the legal  expenses cover of her motor insurance policy. She thinks it was 
negligent in choosing one particular firm to recover her uninsured losses. She wants  it to pay 
her husband  and sons claims for uninsured  losses. Mrs S is represented  in this matter by 
her husband, Mr S, a named driver on her policy.
background
Mr S made a claim on the legal expenses cover  of Mrs Ss policy  following an accident. He 
said he and his son had been injured. RSA appointed one of its panel of solicitors  to recover 
their uninsured losses. But Mr S was unhappy with the service it provided  and he thought 
RSA had been negligent in referring  them to it. 
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought RSA 
had acted within the policy terms and conditions in providing access  to legal representation. 
She thought  it had provided a seven  day cooling  off period if they were  unhappy with the 
selected solicitors. She thought that if Mrs S was unhappy with the actions of the solicitors 
then she should  complain to the Legal Ombudsman. 
Mr S replied  that he wasnt given a choice of solicitors. He said he was told he had to use a 
specific firm. He said they werent  given a cooling  off period. He asked  for his complaint to 
be reviewed, so its been passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs S 
and to RSA on 4 January 2019. I summarise  my findings:
I could understand  that Mr S was disappointed  with how the claims for personal injuries were 
handled. But I didnt  intend to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I explained why I thought this. I 
provided additional reasoning than the adjudicator, so this provisional decision gave both 
parties opportunity  to respond before I made my final decision. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.  But we cant  consider the 
quality of the legal advice,  unless  its obviously wrong, which I dont think was the case  here.  
I looked at Mrs Ss policy. I could see that legal expenses are set out in Section 4 of the 
policy booklet. The terms and conditions say that if an insured person wants to make  a 
claim, then RSA will assist them to appoint a legal  representative from RSAs panel.  It says 
that the legal  representative will act in the consumers best interests. 
The terms go on to say that if the matter  proceeds  to court,  then the insured person can 
choose their own legal representative. A later section of the policy says that RSA will pay 
legal expenses as long as it remains satisfied that there are reasonable prospects of 
success. I thought  these  were common terms in a legal expenses policy and our approach  is 
that they arent usually objectionable.  
Ref: DRN62183332In terms of reasonable prospects of success, we consider that to mean that a claim is more 
likely to succeed than it is to fail. 
The policy also says RSA will continue to pay its insureds legal expenses  if it is satisfied  that 
the claim still has reasonable prospects  of success and is reasonable to fund. It says a claim 
is reasonable to fund if a privately  funded individual would continue  to fund it themselves 
bearing in mind the potential legal costs compared  to the potential damages to be recovered. 
And also taking into account the defendants  ability to pay the claim.  
As I said above, these  terms are common in legal expenses policies so I didnt think  they 
were unusual. I also didnt  think they were  unfair  because I wouldnt expect an insurer  to 
fund a claim which was likely  to fail or which was likely to cost more in legal fees than the 
potential damages  claimed in the same way that I wouldnt expect a privately funded 
individual to do so either. 
Mr S said when he reported the claim he was asked if there were  any injuries. He said he 
answered yes. And so I thought it was reasonable for RSA to then put him in contact with 
one of its panel of solicitors to reclaim any uninsured  losses.
Our usual  approach when it comes to freedom of choice of solicitors is that the consumer  is 
entitled to choose their own solicitor at the point when proceedings become necessary or if 
there is a conflict of interest.  We also consider other  factors  such as if its a complex  case or 
if the consumer  already  has legal representation  (subject to the hourly rate being  
reasonable). As far as Im aware none  of these applied in Mrs Ss case so I didnt think  RSA 
acted unreasonably in offering her solicitors  from its panel.
RSA showed us that it has three  solicitors firms on its panel  and there  was also an option for 
a policyholder to use their own solicitor under the policy, under certain circumstances such  
as where there is a conflict  of interest.  
I couldnt comment on RSAs choice of solicitors for its panel  as I thought that wasnt  
something that this service would normally interfere with as its a legitimate exercise of its 
commercial judgement. But from what I understood, the firm that dealt with Mr Ss personal 
injury claim is a specialist personal injury  firm. So I think RSA acted reasonably in referring 
Mr S to that firm.
The selected  solicitors  then emailed Mr S to ask about the injuries sustained. Mr S provided 
us with a copy  of this email. RSA said the solicitors  then gained Mr Ss verbal  agreement  to 
go ahead. I saw telephone notes to show this. And RSA said the solicitors sent him and his 
son its retainers (service agreement). RSA said it was the policyholders choice to accept the 
solicitors. But Mr S said he wasnt provided  with a choice.
However, RSA provided copies of letters sent by the selected solicitors  setting  out the 
service it provided. They conclude with a seven  day cooling  off period in which  to cancel the 
instructions. Mr S said he did receive the introductory email but not the letters. But I could 
see that the postal  addresses on both were the same. And so I couldnt say that the letters 
werent sent or that Mr S wasnt  given a choice.  
Ref: DRN62183333But even if he hadnt, I thought Mr S obviously knew the solicitors were  acting  for him 
because he liaised with them and provided instructions in relation to his claim. And, from 
what I could see, he didnt mention to RSA that he was unhappy about the firm selected  until 
nearly two years later. Mr S provided a letter RSA sent him in response to this complaint 
showing that RSA investigated his concerns. 
So, it seemed  to me that RSA wasnt aware  he was unhappy with the panel  solicitors until 
that stage. I couldnt  see that Mr S complained further until after the solicitors advised  him to 
withdraw his claim. So I couldnt say that RSA failed to give Mr S the option of choosing  
other solicitors if it wasnt aware  he was unhappy with the current  ones.  
The solicitors advised Mr S that there  wasnt a reasonable prospect of the claims being  
successful. It advised  him to drop the claim to avoid future liability for costs. 
I couldnt comment on this advice but from what I saw this was the only expert legal opinion 
available regarding Mr Ss claim.  RSA is entitled  by the policy  term that addresses 
reasonable prospects of success to then decide  to not further  fund legal expenses. And in 
the absence of any legal advice contrary to the panel solicitors I thought RSA acted 
reasonably in line with the policy terms and conditions.
As stated above, I couldnt comment on the actions  of the solicitors  as thats a matter for the 
Legal Ombudsman. I could see that Mr S has told us that hes already taken his complaint  
there.
So I thought  RSA assisted Mrs S to appoint a legal representative to pursue the uninsured 
losses. I didnt have  evidence to show that RSA was negligent in selecting one particular firm 
of solicitors to act for Mrs S under her legal  expenses cover. I thought  RSA complied with 
the policys terms and conditions. And so I didnt require it to pay for her husband or sons 
claims.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs S or RSA,  my provisional  decision was that I 
intended to not uphold  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA replied that it had nothing  further to add. 
Mr S replied  setting out seven points which he said were facts that showed that RSA hadnt  
acted in his or his sons best interest. But I dont think Mr Ss points provide any further 
evidence for me to consider.  I think they reiterate previous  points that Ive already  
considered in my provisional decision.  And as Ive already made findings on those points, 
which I see no reason to change, I wont repeat them here.   
Mr S questioned the completeness  of RSA submissions provided to him. But thats not 
relevant to Mrs Ss complaint here. So Ill direct that concern to the appropriate officer  in our 
service.
As Ive not received any representations providing  further evidence for me to consider, I can 
see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN62183334my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6218333