K821x#15complaint
Miss S is unhappy  with her new home building warranty provider National House-Building 
Council in relation to assistance she sought  from it when the developer of her home wouldnt 
repair defects.
background
Miss S bought a new home in August 2016.  She noticed issues  with it and contacted the 
developer. When it failed to resolve the issues Miss S contacted  NHBC. A meeting took 
place in April 2017 during  which 41 issues with the property were  considered.  NHBC felt 
around half were defects according to its warranty and recommended the developer fix them
by 5 June 2017. No recommendations were made  regarding items 33 and 35. NHBC did feel 
item 40 was a defect  and recommended it be resolved.
In May 2017, before  the deadline set by NHBC had been reached, NHBC amended  its 
resolution report in respect of item 40. Upon further  consideration,  NHBC  said,  it was felt this 
issue didnt equate to a defect. Therefore,  it was no longer making any recommendation in 
respect of this item.
The 5 June  deadline came and went without  the recommended  work being completed.  
Miss S and the developer  blamed each other  for this.
NHBC felt a further  resolution meeting was necessary  in order to determine  what  work 
remained outstanding.  It said that without that the claim  couldnt  progress. Miss S wasnt 
prepared to allow  for that to happen though. She felt this was just a tactic to allow  the 
developer, who had already failed to meet a deadline, more time to complete work. Miss S 
complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that NHBCs liability as an insurer had begun when the 5 June deadline 
passed without  all of the work being  completed. And during her assessment of the complaint 
NHBC said it would be prepared to make a cash settlement for all of the work detailed  on the 
resolution report which remained  outstanding. But to do that it would need to go back  to the 
property to carry out a further assessment. It also agreed to pay £300 compensation as 
recommended by the investigator.
Miss S wasnt happy with this. She said NHBC had already assessed the problems. So that 
should allow  it to determine a cash settlement. She wanted to know  what  the cash  
settlement would include. She said items 33 and 35 were now issues that needed resolving. 
And she wanted to know if resolution  of item 40 would be included in the settlement. She
also wanted to know how the settlement  might  account for things like drainage  (because  she 
believes that at least some of the problems  with her garden, detailed  in the report, stem from 
water running off neighbouring land).  She said £300  compensation  wasnt  enough.
Our investigator told both parties that she felt NHBCs offer to settle in cash, subject to an 
assessment visit, was fair and reasonable. She said shed  ask it to include items 33 and 35. 
But she said in her view that item 40 wasnt a defect so she couldnt  ask it to include an 
amount for resolving  that in its settlement. She said £300 compensation was, in her view, fair 
and reasonable.
Miss S remained unhappy. NHBC didnt make any further response. The complaint was 
passed to me for a decision  to be made.  I felt the complaint should be resolved in the way 
Ref: DRN65308912suggested by the investigator, but I noted  I couldnt  comment on items 33, 35 and 40. 
I issued a provisional decision to explain my views.  I said:
my provisional findings
NHBC isnt an insurer  in the conventional sense. Part of its remit is to provide insurance 
covering (amongst other things) major defects for years three to ten after a property has 
been completed. It also carries  out a number of other (non-insurance, non-regulated) 
activities including setting  standards  for UK house builders, ensuring that new homes are 
built to certain standards  and  most  relevant to this complaint  providing  a dispute 
resolution service in the first two years of the warranty. The dispute resolution service  is 
intended to help the builder and the homeowner resolve any differences  they may have in 
that period.  The primary responsibility for putting right defects during this time lies with the 
builder.
This service doesnt consider NHBC to be carrying out a regulated activity until:
A resolution report has been issued, and
The builder  has failed  to complete the work  in the resolution report by the deadline set.
Just because  the deadline  passes, doesnt mean  NHBC has to immediately take on 
responsibility for completing the work.  It may choose  to keep liaising  with the developer in 
order to get it to fulfil its obligations.  But, if it passes  without  the developer completing all the 
work NHBC  recommended  it do, NHBC is seen to be carrying  out regulated insurance 
activity from the date of the deadline.  Which means we can consider whether, from that 
point, it has acted fairly and reasonably.
I can see here that Miss S was frustrated. And that whilst NHBC felt it was stuck,  to some 
extent, in the middle of the developer and Miss S, its clear that there were significant  delays 
by the developer in the run up to the deadline  passing. And because  NHBC, when the 
deadline passed, was carrying out an insurance  activity, that meant its liability  towards 
Miss S changed.  It was no longer just acting as a mediator between  her and the developer,  it 
was acting as Miss Ss insurer. So it had a responsibility to treat her fairly and reasonably.
NHBC was initially intent  on getting  the developer to complete the work. But Im aware  that 
there were delays before the deadline  passed. And NHBC noted  itself that there was 
conflicting information from both Miss S and the developer about who was responsible for 
work not getting  done. I think  NHBC should  have recognised that, whether or not there was 
some truth on both sides,  Miss S and the developer were never going to be able to resolve 
things between themselves.
I think NHBC could  reasonably have looked  to take over from the builder sooner. Particularly 
given the amount of defects and the clear  frustration its policyholder  was experiencing. Had 
NHBC asked for a second meeting sooner, and made it clear this was with a view to it taking 
on the outstanding work,  I think Miss S would have  been more minded to agree to that.
But whilst  I understand Miss Ss frustration at being  asked to cooperate  with a further 
meeting now, that is what I would  have recommended, whether or not things had moved on 
as they have. And now that NHBC is looking to settle the claim, its vitally  important  that it 
gets a chance to fully assess what work is needed to correct the defects and, by doing  that, 
it can determine what a fair settlement for that will be.
Ref: DRN65308913That is a very different  assessment to the one that occurred previously when NHBC 
determined whether the issues equated  to defects it was liable for under the policy and 
made recommendations for resolving them. For example, the resolution  report says things
like this doesnt comply  with our technical requirements, the developer should carry out work 
to ensure that it does. So NHBC hasnt actually decided what  work is required. It fairly has
to be given  that opportunity. Miss S might  say it should have done that before but before 
NHBC wasnt in charge of rectifying the problems  it was only the arbiter of what  needed  
fixing, not how, or at what price. As I said above,  NHBCs role has changed.
I know  Miss S has concerns about certain items on the report  and how they can be resolved. 
NHBC visiting and carrying out a further assessment should allow clarification in these 
respects to be provided. And, whether it does  or not, once it has decided  what it thinks
needs to be done  and at what price,  Miss S will have  chance to consider all of that. If she 
thinks its offer is unfair  or unreasonable  in light of the liability  established in the resolution 
reports  shell be able to make a further  complaint.
But it is the resolution report completed  in April and the updated  report regarding item 40 
issued in May 2017 against which NHBC will be assessing necessary work. That is what it 
has become liable for. The resolution  reports arent  completed as part of regulated activity. 
So I cant consider the content of them; whether  theyre right or wrong,  or incomplete  in any 
way. Taken  together the reports show that items  33, 35 and 40 arent defects and no 
recommendation for resolution in respect  of them has been made.
That means that the developer hadnt failed  to meet any recommendations in respect of 
these items  when the deadline set by NHBC passed. In turn that means  that, regarding
these items  NHBC isnt carrying out a regulated insurance activity. And because these items 
arent seen  as being part of a regulated activity, I cant make any finding or direction about  
them.
I can see this situation has been frustrating  for Miss S. But having a situation  that results in a 
claim will necessarily  result in some  inconvenience. There  will often be a need for 
appointments to take place,  for example. I know Miss S bought  this home,  at least  in part 
because of the warranty. But the warranty doesnt guarantee that the home will be free of 
defects, only that a route is available to resolve  them if theyre found. And that route,  
naturally, results in some inconvenience.
But if Miss S is inconvenienced or upset due to any failures of NHBC,  it might be appropriate 
for it to pay her compensation.  As I said above, I think NHBC should have offered the
meeting sooner, and on the basis it was taking over the work. I think  this would  have 
prevented the parties reaching  deadlock  in the way they did and, by so doing, avoided  a lot 
of the frustration and upset that occurred. Having  considered what Miss S has said and 
taken into account  the relevant circumstances, Im satisfied that £300  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.
NHBC said it was satisfied  by what Id said. Miss S was unhappy. In summary she said:
The detail within the resolution report,  coupled with what  NHBC knows about  the houses  
in the development from its building control work, should provide ample  detail for a 
settlement to be calculated. And its been  sent other evidence  regarding  some issues.
Last time there  was a visit, lots of people attended unannounced and it was intimidating. 
Their behaviour was unprofessional. If NHBC does make a further visit it should be 
restricted to only sending one person.
Ref: DRN65308914If this is settled in cash then a direction should  be made making it clear that work being 
carried out wont invalidate the warranty.
£300 isnt enough. She now knows others  on her estate whose  homes have defects and 
theyve received thousands of pounds of compensatory  upgrades and/or discounts. £300 
also barely accounts for the time shes spent already and the time shell  have to spend 
getting quotes for work to be done.
Theres the inconvenience of living in an unfinished property for three years too.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The resolution report does give some detail. For example, it says the developer should:
ensure  the wall is smooth and uniform in colour, texture and finish.
But that isnt sufficient, even if coupled with site plans that show the size of each wall, to 
create a scope and costing for what is necessary to meet  that direction. For example, it 
doesnt say whether the whole wall needs rectifying,  or if there  are localised patches that 
need bringing into line with the rest. It also doesnt  explain  what  the cause of the problem is 
which means one cant  know what is needed  to resolve it. The wall being uneven  might 
mean all the plaster  has to be taken off and re-applied. Or maybe a skim coat would sort the 
issue. Or perhaps some sanding  and re-painting. The resolution report was designed to 
identify an issue and direct the builder  to resolve it. It wasnt  designed to give the type of 
detail required to scope  the necessary work and cost it.
Im satisfied its reasonable  that NHBC wants to re-visit to carry out a scoping exercise to 
allow it to cost the work. I cant  reasonably  direct  it to only have one person attend  such a 
meeting. For example,  NHBC would often send a technician  or a surveyor  to carry out such  
an exercise, but its possible they may feel someone  else with specific expertise in some 
areas might also be required  perhaps  regarding the drainage  issue in the garden.  It might 
well prejudice either  or both NHBC and Miss S if I were to make this kind of restriction.  
But I will say that NHBC should  liaise with Miss S so that a suitable appointment can be 
arranged and so that she is aware  of who will be attending her home.
Miss S carrying out work wont invalidate the warranty. The cover  will remain  in respect of 
the developers  work. But any report of damage  or defects will always  be subject  to the 
warranty terms and will likely have  to be validated.
I understand that Miss S thinks £300  isnt enough  but I cant  base my awards  on what  she 
says others  have received. And my award  doesnt  take into account all of the upset and 
inconvenience Miss S has had. As I explained  provisionally, Im restricted in what I can take 
into account. So the meetings, time spent  and inconvenience Miss S suffered, prior to the 
deadline of 5 June 2017 are all beyond my purview. 
I also explained provisionally that NHBCs involvement doesnt  mean  that it guarantees a 
home free of defects. So I dont award  compensation on the basis of there  being  defects. 
The warranty just provides a recourse when  defects arise. So when NHBC begins  carrying 
out a regulated activity, because defects have  been  found, the general  upset and 
inconvenience that goes along with that  time spent, meetings, arranging for and getting  
work done  arent things I award compensation for either.
Ref: DRN65308915My compensation awards are designed  to make up for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by an insurer when that insurer gets things wrong, when they fail their policyholder in 
some way. Ive explained provisionally how I think NHBC failed Miss S and what I think  fair 
and reasonable compensation for that is  £300.  I remain of that view.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require National House-Building  Council  to, subject  to it being 
allowed reasonable chance  to assess the items,  consider  settlement for Miss Ss claim to 
allow her to complete the work that remains outstanding but needs to be done in order  to 
resolve the defects  at her home as recommended in the April 2017 resolution report.
I further require National House-Building Council to pay Miss S £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6530891