K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) has acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with his claim under  a home emergency  insurance policy. He 
wants £60 refunded.
background
Mr P had home emergency  insurance and said that a carbon monoxide  alarm was supplied  
by RSA as part of the policy.  The policy was taken out in November 2018, three months  
before the alarm activated and Mr P called an engineer under the insurance policy to 
examine his boiler. The engineer said that the boiler was fine and it was the alarm that was 
faulty. Mr P was required to pay a £60 excess, and RSA refused to refund it.
Mr P complained about the excess and other issues not brought  to this service. RSA said 
the alarm  was faulty and it hadnt acted unfairly  or unreasonably.
Mr P complained to us, saying that the alarm had been provided by RSA.  The investigators  
view was that under the terms of the policy, Mr P was required to pay the excess for each 
claim. He noted  that RSA denied supplying the alarm and within  its own records  RSA had 
noted that there wasnt a carbon monoxide alarm in place. The investigator said that there 
wasnt any evidence that RSA supplied the alarm, and so it wasnt responsible  for the fact 
that the alarms  fault caused the call out of the engineer. He didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr P disagreed. He said that the alarm was posted  to him and there was an advert  about  it. 
The investigator asked  for a copy of the advert and what was received by Mr P; Mr P sent a 
copy of an advert from some years  ago. The investigator also asked RSA about whether  it 
offered free carbon monoxide alarms; it confirmed  that it had done so in the past,  but not as 
part of the campaign which saw Mr P take out his policy. It pointed out that the advert  
forwarded by Mr P was an old one  it was with a different insurer  and it was under that 
policy that Mr P had been sent the alarm  in 2015.  RSA also said that under the terms of its 
policy, it was required to maintain and check any alarms, and Mr P wanted  his boiler 
checked.
The investigator said that the onus  was on Mr P to check the alarm was still fit for purpose 
and it had been with him for nearly  four years. He didnt think the excess should be refunded 
as it was charged in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  Mr P said that RSA kept 
changing its response and wanted an ombudsmans decision. He thought  that the alarm 
came with a ten year guarantee. RSA said if a warranty was offered, it was from the 
manufacturer, and pointed out that Mr P hadnt  told it about his earlier policy  from 2015,  
which was why its answer changed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps insurance policy covers his boiler and central  heating,  but charges a £60 excess fee 
for each  claim. This meant that under the terms and conditions of the policy, Mr P was 
required to pay £60 for the engineers  attendance when the alarm went  off, and I cant  say 
that this was unfair or unreasonable.
Ref: DRN69261122But Mr P has said that RSA should refund  the money because  he says it supplied a faulty 
carbon monoxide  alarm.  The first point to make  is that it wasnt  RSA who supplied the alarm; 
it was provided by a different insurer. The insurance  policy taken out by Mr P in 2015  was 
with another insurer  and was a different policy to that taken out in 2018, though the actual 
work under the policy appears to be carried out by the same expert company. So I dont 
think that it would be fair or reasonable for me to hold RSA responsible for an alarm provided  
by another business. And I accept  that Mr P didnt explain that the alarm had been received 
years earlier until late in the process,  which is why RSA didnt know about  the alarm  at first.
The policy says its for the consumer to maintain any alarms in place. So if the alarm is 
faulty, that isnt the fault of RSA and if there is a warranty, Mr P needs  to take up his 
complaint with the relevant manufacturer.
Having considered all the evidence and the circumstances  of this complaint, I cant say that 
RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
8 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6926112