K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2007.  
Our adjudicator thought that HSBC had mis-sold the policy and upheld Mr Ds complaint.
HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint comes  to me to decide how 
it should be settled.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case. 
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Neither Mr D nor HSBC can say how the policy was sold or whether HSBC recommended 
Mr D take the policy  or not. Mr D had had the credit card for many years before the policy 
was added but neither party has any of the paperwork  for the time of the sale of the PPI. 
HSBC has been  able to say when  the policy was added to Mr Ds account and has been  
able to provide  the policy document for that time. 
As the policy was added to Mr Ds credit card account after him having it for many  years,  I 
think its unlikely that HSBC recommended the cover to Mr D. But wed still expect to see 
that HSBC gave Mr D enough  clear  information about the cover so he could decide for 
himself it was useful for him and if he wanted  to pay for it.
The cover under the plan ended at age 65. I think this was important information that HSBC 
shouldve made  Mr D aware of. I say this because HSBC sold PPI to Mr D when he was 
aged around 63 years and 6 months.  So, even  though he was eligible for the cover  when  he 
took it out, Mr D wouldve  only had around 18 months or so benefit under the terms of the 
policy before  it ended when he turned 65.
On the basis of the information Ive seen,  I cant see that HSBC drew  this important limitation 
to Mr Ds attention. And I dont think that  in his particular circumstances  Mr D would have 
bought the policy if hed fully understood this. I dont think Mr D wouldve  taken  the policy for 
such a short period or that hed have  thought  that having cover for a little over a year was 
worthwhile for the monthly cost involved.
Ive taken into account HSBCs comments that Mr D cancelled the policy after he turned 65 
which they think makes it clear he was aware of the limitation.  But  I cant  see when, how or 
if this was explained to him when PPI was first discussed and he was deciding if he wanted  
to have it. So this is why Im upholding this complaint.
putting things right
I understand that Mr Ds credit card is still open but the PPI has been cancelled.
Ref: DRN69939272HSBC should  put Mr D in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI by 
doing the following:
A.HSBC should  find out how much Mr D would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
HSBC should  then refund the difference between  what Mr D owes and what he would 
have owed.
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. The same  applies for any refund of commission 
Mr D has received. 
B.If  when HSBC works  out what Mr D would have owed each month without PPI  Mr D 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, HSBC should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr D paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr D 
wouldve owed HSBC  something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C.HSBC should  tell Mr D what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Mr D a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. I direct HSBC  Bank  Plc to pay Mr D 
as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6993927