K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Aviva Equity  Release UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold them a 
lifetime mortgage. They  say that they shouldnt have been  able to make an application  
because Mrs C was suffering with dementia. 
They say they are now locked into a mortgage  with legal restrictions without the freedom to 
use as they had intended.  
Mr C has led the complaint throughout.
background
In January 2013, Mr and Mrs C took out a lifetime mortgage for £175,000,  introduced  
through a broker,  with Aviva. This provided  an initial sum of £150,000 to repay  their existing 
mortgage of £132,000 and undertake  repairs to the property. A cash  reserve  of £25,000 was 
left which  could be taken  in the future,  without the need for further approval. 
In late 2012, Mr and Mrs C met with a broker who obtained quotes from different providers 
and after consideration they decided to proceed with the application for the Aviva policy.  The 
application was made in Mr and Mrs Cs joint names  and hes said that at no point during the 
process was he made aware of the implications of dementia on the mortgage or the need to 
obtain either Powers of Attorney or a Deputyship  Order through  the Court  of Protection. Hes 
also said there was no requirement for Mrs Cs condition to be declared, and no lifestyle  or 
health questions  as part of the Aviva application process.  
At the beginning  of 2014, Mr C was able to draw down £10,000 from the cash  reserve and 
Aviva confirmed the draw  down with Mrs C by asking her two simple  security  questions 
relating to her personal data, which she was able to answer.
Later, in December 2014, Mr C requested a further  draw down on the cash  advance.  Aviva  
asked to speak  to Mrs C and asked the following questions- had any of the money drawn 
down previously been spent on Mr and Mrs C; and which account was the money paid into.  
Mrs C was unable to answer these questions, so Mr C spoke on her behalf and explained 
her health  condition to Aviva. 
Mr C says that Aviva told him this changed everything,  and that he would need  to obtain a 
Power of Attorney before a request  could  be made.  He looked into gaining this authority but 
was told that as Mrs Cs health had deteriorated,  it was too late to obtain a Power of 
Attorney. 
Mr C raised concerns to Aviva and it agreed to let Mr C draw down the whole  balance  of the 
cash reserve, as a one-off  concession.  At this time, the full amount agreed when they took 
out the mortgage was released.  Aviva  explained  that Mr C would need to obtain  relevant 
legal authority for any further draw  down requests he wished to make  in the future as this is 
a joint mortgage.  
Since this time, Mr C has applied for additional borrowing and has experienced issues  in 
gaining the relevant authority to do this. 
Ref: DRN64196552Our investigator considered the case.  He thought that any complaint about the sale of the 
mortgage, or lack of information provided  about how Mrs Cs health could affect the 
mortgage, needed to be directed to the mortgage  broker.
He didnt think that Aviva acted unfairly  in granting the mortgage. Mr C disagreed  and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale of the mortgage
This mortgage was introduced by a broker, who is responsible for any point of sale advice or 
information. Mr C has raised a complaint about the broker and Ill be reviewing this in a 
separate decision. 
Mr C has also said that his solicitors  shouldnt have allowed him to take this out. The 
solicitors requirements here are to prepare  documentation  know  as a SHIP (Safe Home 
Income Plans  now known as the Equity Release Council) certificate.  A SHIP certificate is a 
certificate signed by the solicitor confirming he or she has explained the nature of the 
mortgage to Mr and Mrs C, and is satisfied they understand what  they are agreeing  to. This 
document is an extra protection required for equity release mortgages but not for standard  
mortgages  because they are taken out by older borrowers who can be more vulnerable. 
Members of the Equity Release Council  including Aviva  will not grant a mortgage without 
one.
If Mr C is unhappy about the advice received from the solicitors, then a complaint can be 
made to them  directly and escalated to the legal ombudsman  if Mr C isnt happy with the 
response. 
Ive considered the application paperwork from the time and can see that Mr and Mrs C 
confirmed they understood  the terms of the mortgage and went on to sign the agreement. 
They did this on the basis of the advice  that they received from the broker  and solicitor, and 
Aviva provided this mortgage having  reviewed the application. 
Did Aviva act irresponsibly by granting  the mortgage?
Aviva has said that it wasnt told about  Mrs Cs health condition,  and the broker has 
confirmed that they didnt  disclose this to Aviva  as they didnt consider Mrs C to be suffering 
from symptoms  from what they saw at the time.  The broker  has said that Mrs C was joining 
in the discussions  and, from what they saw, appeared to be understanding how the 
mortgage would work.  
Mr C has said that there  should  have  been  questions on the application form which  asked 
about any potential  health issues  or a separate health questionnaire should have been 
required. Hes said that if there had been,  he would have disclosed Mrs Cs health  condition 
and this may have  prevented the mortgage being taken, or an alternative could have been 
considered which better  suited Mr and Mrs Cs situation. 
Ref: DRN64196553I do understand Mr Cs frustrations here, but I dont think it was unreasonable  for Aviva to 
provide this mortgage without asking for a health  questionnaire.  I say this as the mortgage  
was introduced by an adviser and the need  and suitability of the mortgage  for Mr and 
Mrs Cs circumstances would have been  discussed with them. And there is the additional 
protection of the SHIP certificate.  Aviva didnt meet Mr or Mrs C during the application  
process, and I dont think it was unreasonable for it to rely on the broker and solicitor   who 
did, and neither of whom  raised any concerns. 
I also bear in mind that theres no suggestion  that Mr and Mrs C didnt  want  the borrowing at 
the time or were somehow pressurised into taking it. They used  the funds, and it was only 
when Mr C had difficulties  in applying for further funds that he became concerned. And even  
after that, he continued to apply for further  borrowing.  I dont therefore think  its likely  that 
Mr C believes  this mortgage  should  never  have  been lent.
Having reviewed the information provided to Aviva  at the time  and considering the 
responsibilities a lender has, I dont  think it acted unreasonably or irresponsibly by granting 
this lifetime mortgage. 
further drawdown requests
The original  mortgage  offer outlines  that additional borrowing could be available in the future 
but that this isnt guaranteed and that future  applications would be assessed against  criteria 
in force  at the time, as is common industry practice.
In 2017, Mr C contacted  Aviva again  to see if he could act on behalf of his wife and draw 
down further equity to release cash.  He said this was to help pay for the rising costs  of 
caring for his wife. Aviva responded to say that it was unable to allow  him to apply for further  
funds without legal documentation that allowed  Mr C to act on Mrs Cs behalf.
From this time onwards, Mr C has been trying  to gain the relevant legal authority to deal with 
his wifes financial affairs.  In 2018,  Mr C applied to the Court of Protection for a Deputyship  
Order. He provided this to Aviva but was told that he might need further approval from the 
court as the order  was limited and they explained  further borrowing as: otherwise  disposing 
of the asset which  is not permitted under the Order . This means that the order doesnt 
permit Mr C to exchange   dispose of  part of Mrs Cs share  of the property  the asset.  
Aviva said he would need to obtain a supplementary  order to allow him to do this. Mr C 
requested an amendment to the Deputyship Order to enable him to apply for the further  
borrowing. He said he was then told he would need to make  an application to the court to 
appoint a new trustee to act for his wife. In 2019, Mr C applied to appoint his two sons to act 
as trustees for his wifes affairs and in July 2019, he received a Court  Order appointing his 
two sons as trustees and authorising him to apply for further borrowing from Aviva.
Ive considered the comments that Mr C has made  about the process  hes has to go through  
to gain authority  to act on behalf of his wife to release  further funds. I understand that this 
has been a lengthy and difficult process.  Im sorry to hear about  the time its taken  and 
appreciate this must have been  difficult and stressful, especially whilst caring for his wife. 
However, considering  everything, I dont  think Aviva acted unfairly. It explained that it 
needed to be satisfied that Mr C had the relevant authority to release further funds as this is 
a joint mortgage.  Because  Mrs C can no longer  manager her own affairs or make  her own 
decisions, Mr C has legal  authority to do so on her behalf  but only to the extent set out by 
Ref: DRN64196554the court. I think it was reasonable that Aviva  wouldnt allow him to agree to further 
borrowing on Mrs Cs behalf until the court  said he could. Ive also noted that they released 
the further funds  to Mr C in 2014 as a good will gesture because of Mr Cs circumstances, 
but that it would  require  relevant authority in the future. 
I understand that since bringing this complaint, Mr C has been able to access additional 
borrowing. I hope this will make matters  easier for the future. 
Mr C has also said that he feels hes been  prevented from downsizing.  This mortgage is 
portable so this could  be possible, but I would suggest he takes independent  advice with 
regards to this. 
conclusions
Having considered everything, I dont think Aviva  acted  irresponsibly in granting this 
mortgage or treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly  so I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020..
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6419655