K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that J P Morgan Europe  Limited  allowed  some  unauthorised transactions  to 
be taken from his account.  He would like this money returned.
background
In January 2018, Mr C contacted JPM about some disputed transactions which took place 
between 5th and 12th January. All were  made  at ATMs and all involved the use of Mr Cs 
genuine card and PIN.
But Mr C said he hadnt made these transactions.  He had been in hospital  for some months 
and had only been discharged around  mid-January. He thought  a visitor had taken his card 
and a statement  from his cupboard in the hospital  and told JPM that he had not had his PIN 
written down.
JPM refused to refund Mr C.  It said Mr C must  have shared his PIN with a third party  and 
therefore had breached  the terms and conditions of his account.  This meant that his was 
liable for the money subsequently  withdrawn.
Mr C then came to this service. 
Our investigator upheld  his complaint  as he did not think JPM had dealt with it fairly.  He  (the 
investigator) told JPM that he did not think Mr C had consented to the withdrawals  an 
essential element  when  considering authorisation.  And whilst the most  likely scenario was 
that Mr C had probably written his PIN on his statement which was kept in his hospital 
cupboard, he could not be considered  to be grossly negligent as that would mean he had 
shown a serious disregard or indifference  to an obvious risk.
Our investigator thought that JPM should refund the disputed transactions, along with 
interest and £200  for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Mr C agreed but JPM did not.  It asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I intend to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint   for very much  the same reasons  as the investigator.
Generally speaking, the relevant rules  say that JPM can hold Mr C liable for the transactions 
if the evidence  suggests that he made  them himself  or authorised them.  His genuine  card 
and PIN being  used  is evidence of authentication and so I am satisfied that they were  
authenticated.
But the same rules say that this is not enough to prove authority.  Mr C would have  had to 
consent to the transactions being made  as well.  So, Ive gone on to consider the issue  of 
consent.
I dont think Mr C did consent  hes given a credible account of his circumstances at the 
time.  And he accepts  that during the earlier part of his time in hospital, he had given a friend 
his card and PIN in order for them to withdraw  money for him.  Mr C was in hospital after all 
Ref: DRN62965932 and it was probably  quite  difficult  for him to withdraw the money himself. In the 
circumstances, I find Mr C to be a credible complainant.
JPM submits that this in itself is a breach of the accounts terms and conditions  but Im 
afraid that in the particular circumstances that Mr C found himself in  that is neither a fair 
nor reasonable stance.
With regards the issue  of how this person knew Mr Cs PIN, I agree with the investigator.   I 
think it is more likely  than not that this was written down on a statement which was in Mr Cs 
cupboard.  
I then must consider  whether  I think this amounts to gross negligence i.e did Mr C show  a 
serious disregard or indifference to an obvious  risk?
Again, in these  particular  circumstances, I dont think  Mr C could be said to have been  
grossly negligent.   I remind myself  that Mr C had spent some months in hospital  and was 
essentially reliant on staff and friends to assist him.  I dont know  why Mr C kept a copy of his 
PIN written down  it may be that he struggled to remember it.  But  to do so and to keep it in 
his cupboard in hospital, does not in my opinion satisfy the test necessary for gross 
negligence.
Finally, I note that JPM has made submissions with regards the length of time it took for 
Mr C to report his card lost and has also commented on the pattern of withdrawals not being 
that of a typical fraudster.   I have  considered  the same  but neither  submissions  impact  
greatly on my findings that Mr C cannot be held liable for these transactions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  JP Morgan Europe Limited should:
-refund  the disputed  transactions  amounting  to £1174.15
-add interest at a rate of 8% from the date of the transactions to the date of settlement
-pay Mr C £200 for the distress and inconvenience in bringing this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Shazia Ahmed 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6296593