K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs T says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2001 Mrs T applied for a credit card online. At the same time she also took out PPI 
designed to protect  her card payments in the event she couldnt work  because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment.
The basic  cost of the policy was 59 pence for every  £100 Mrs T owed on the card.  And it 
would pay a monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding balance upon  a successful claim for 
up to 12 months (per claim.)
Mrs T told us she had six months full pay followed by six months  half-pay. She also said 
she had savings at the time, but couldnt  determine or evidence the amount.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  the evidence showed  Mrs T 
showed PPI. And there was nothing to suggest  shed lost out as a result of taking out the 
policy.
Mrs T disagrees, so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided Mrs T has not suffered loss as a result of taking out PPI because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Barclays has provided an example screen  shot of the PPI application journey it says Mrs 
T would have gone through  during her online  credit  card application in 2001. This has 
not been provided in isolation  its something  weve  seen before - so on balance  I think  
it represents what Mrs T would likely  have  seen. This shows  Mrs T would have been 
given a clear choice  two equally  prominent  options, Yes and No, which  she would have  
had to select to continue with her application.
Because of this and Barclays screen  capture records show Mrs T had PPI, I think its 
likely Mrs T selected  the Yes option when it was presented to her onscreen.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong 
despite the existing means  Mrs T said she had at the time. 
Ref: DRN65139462It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mrs T, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said - including what  she said about not knowing 
shed taken out PPI. But these points  dont change my decision.
Not only does Barclays internal records indicate Mrs T chose PPI during her online credit  
card application,  the cost of the PPI would have appeared  on her credit  card statements as a 
separate and distinct entry. And it would have done so for several  years. If Mrs T hadnt  
known shed taken  out PPI, I might have expected her to query the entry  on her statements 
with Barclays and at the fist opportunity. But I cant see she did so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided Mrs T hasnt lost out as a result  of having 
PPI to the extent  that Barclays Bank  PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mrs T.
But Barclays  Bank PLC does have to pay back  to Mrs T any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6513946