K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy that was added to her 
credit card account by Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds).
background
Mrs T successfully applied  for a credit  card with Lloyds in August 1994. 
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds  has provided  records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage.  So I cannot be sure how or when  the PPI was sold to 
Mrs T but I do know it was sold at some point  between August 1994 (when the card was sold 
to her) and January 2000.
The PPI that was sold to Mrs T was designed  to protect her monthly card repayments if she 
wasnt working because  of accident,  sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
An adjudicator looked into Mrs Ts complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld. Mrs T 
disagrees and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.  
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Mrs T nor Lloyds can give me much information 
about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats  passed.  Ive 
looked at what  Mrs T has said about how the policy was sold. But it has been very 
difficult for me to understand what happened with so little information available  about 
this sale. And in the absence of relevant documentation, a more  detailed recollection 
from either party or further information  to support what  Mrs T has said, I cannot fairly 
conclude on this occasion that the policy was sold as Mrs T suggests  it was. I would 
need to see more information to support what Mrs T has said to conclude otherwise. 
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Mrs T to have the policy but even 
if it did recommend the PPI, I think it was suitable for her anyway. Any claim under 
the policy more  likely  could be paid for up to 12 months. Mrs T would have found the 
benefit from the cover provided useful in an extended time of need (on top of her 6 
months full and 6 months half sick pay that she received  from her employer).  Mrs T 
also wasnt adversely  affected by any of the policys main exclusions. The policy also 
seemed affordable for Mrs T.
I cant see that Lloyds  explained about  the policys main terms as clearly as it 
shouldve done. But for the same reasons as the policy  was suitable, I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  to Mrs Ts decision to buy the policy.
Ref: DRN63744222It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. In conclusion, I dont think Mrs T was mis-sold  the 
PPI policy. 
my final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold so I dont uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6374422