K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about the valuation Tesco  Underwriting Limited made on his car under his 
motor insurance policy  and the deductions  it made for pre-existing damage.  He wants  an 
increased settlement.  
background
Mr Fs car was damaged in an accident and he made a claim. Tescos  engineer  valued  the 
car at £845  but he said there  was pre-accident damage of £1,200  and so he deducted £600 
from this settlement. Mr F said hed told the engineer that he was having some of the 
damage repaired privately and he thought the assessment should have waited for this to be 
completed. Mr F thought that Tesco  had offered him a settlement that was below the cars 
market value. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She couldnt  find 
a valuation in the motor  trade guides for Mr Fs car because of its age. But she thought  £845  
was reasonable  as Mr F hadnt disputed this. The investigator thought Tesco  shouldnt  make 
a deduction for wear  and tear to the paintwork.  And she thought Tesco could have  waited for 
Mr Fs repairs to be completed before assessing  his car. These cost less than Tescos  
estimate. So she thought it should  use this value to calculate pre-accident damage. She 
calculated the appropriate deduction  to be £342.50.  She also thought  Mr F should be 
allowed to retain  the salvage for £50. 
Mr F replied that he accepted the investigators view.  He said he thought Tesco  was placing  
too much  emphasis on small  details in an old car rather  than the accident-related damage. 
Tesco replied that it thought the valuation was fair and reasonable. It asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an ombudsman, so its come  to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. In 
assessing whether  a reasonable  offer has been made, we obtain valuations  from motor-
trade guides. We also take all other available evidence into account,  for example, engineers 
reports.
Tesco said it couldnt find valuations  for Mr Fs car in the motor  trade  guides  due to its age. 
Our investigator checked this and agreed. Tesco said it then obtained valuations  closest to 
the cars  age. These were  found in two guides. CAP gave £650  and Glasss gave £845. It 
offered Mr F the highest valuation. I think Tescos  approach was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I can see that Mr F isnt as concerned  about  this as about  the deductions for 
pre-accident damage.  
Tesco said it didnt adjust  the cars  valuation  for its poor condition or over-average  mileage. 
But it did assess its pre-accident damage and the cost of repairing this. I can see that in the 
case of total loss, Mr Fs policy provides for the market value of the car taking into account 
its pre-accident condition.  So I think its reasonable for Tesco to apply this. 
Ref: DRN67689492Our approach is that an engineer should estimate  the cost of repairs and then Tesco should 
apply a 50% deduction of this amount to the settlement. 
Tesco said its engineer  estimated the total cost of restoring the car to retail condition  would 
be £1,929.05.  Half this would be more  than the value of the car. So the engineer reduced 
this to £1,200  and so deducted  £600  from the settlement  offer.
Mr F thought Tesco had unfairly included the costs  of repairs that he was having  done  
privately when the car was inspected. He said hed told the engineer  about this and didnt 
think hed include these  in his deductions. Tesco said that it had based its deductions on the 
condition at the time. 
I cant see anything in its file to show that Mr F had raised this with Tesco  at the time. But I 
can see that the invoice for the repairs (£185)  was less than Tescos  engineers  estimate 
(£400). So I agree that Tesco should use the actual  repair cost to calculate  this part of the 
pre-accident damage  (£92.50). 
Tesco also deducted  amounts for a warning light that was on (£100) and for the cars worn  
interior (£150). I think these were  fair and reasonable as its explained  these costs.  And I can 
see that Mr F doesnt disagree with these deductions.
But Tesco also deducted  £150  as it said the paintwork  was flat and the car would need 
repolishing. But I agree with the investigator  that it isnt fair for Tesco to include wear and 
tear in its estimates of pre-accident damage  given the considerable age of the car. So I dont 
think it should include this amount  in its deduction.
Tesco has already offered  Mr F the salvage  of the car for £50. I think  this amount seems fair 
and reasonable as I cant see that Tescos engineer included the salvage value in his report. 
So, in summary,  I agree  that Tescos  offer of £845  for the cars  market  value was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And I think Tesco should deduct £342.50 for the pre-
accident damage and £50 for the salvage.  This means that its settlement offer to Mr F 
should be £452.50.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Tesco  Underwriting Limited 
to pay Mr F £452.50 in settlement of his claim for the loss of his car, including retention of 
the salvage. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6768949