K822xcomplaint
Mrs C has complained that Society of Lloyds refused to compensate  her for losses
caused by one of its repairers, after she claimed  on her alloy wheel and tyre policy.
For ease of reading, any reference to Society  of Lloyds  includes the actions and comments
of the underwriter or their agent.
background 
In April 2018 Mrs C claimed on her policy for repairs to her alloys.  A few months later in
October 2018 Mrs C had a puncture, but the recovery agent  she called out wasnt  able to
find the locking  wheel  nut key. Mrs C complained to Lloyds as she said the technician who
repaired the alloys in April 2018 must  have  lost it.
Lloyds said it checked with the technician,  who said hed put the key in a small bag under
the screw  that holds the spare wheel in place.  It also said hed checked his van to make sure
he hadnt taken  it accidentally. It said given the time that had passed it couldnt  say with
certainty that its technician had lost the key.
Mrs C remained  unhappy and brought her complaint to us. She said she hadnt used the key
between April and October. So, if the technician had left it where hed said, then it should  still
be there. She said shed  had to spend about five hours getting a new wheel put on, due to
the wheel  nuts having to be drilled  off. And she would also need to have new nuts put on to
get a new key. She asked for Lloyds to pay for this.
Lloyds said the technician always leaves the key in a bag in the same place. And there
havent been any other complaints that hed lost any other keys. Mrs C said Lloyds
initially told her the key was under the spare  wheel, but then changed its account when she
said she didnt have  a spare wheel.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 February  2020.  In that decision I said:
Its impossible  to know exactly  how the key was lost. So, Ive made  my decision on what I
think is most likely  to have happened.
Mrs C has explained that as her car is covered by the policy, she would have no need to use
the key elsewhere.  Her testimony has been consistent in that she only noticed  the key was
missing when she had a puncture in October  2018. Im aware  some  time has passed
between the key being used and Mrs C noticing  it was missing. But Im persuaded  that its
most likely the technician didnt replace the key where he thought  he had. I say that because
as Mrs C hadnt needed to use it in the previous six months, it would most likely still have
been where the technician left it.
I appreciate the technician always  leaves  the key in the same  place. But I wouldnt expect
him to specifically remember doing  this on every job, particularly as it happened  six months
previously. And I think in this case its most likely  there was a mistake  and that didnt
happen. I also dont  find it unusual that Mrs C only raised the issue after six months,
because Im persuaded that this was the first time she had needed to look for it.
Mrs C has said that shell need to have the wheel nuts drilled off and new ones fitted in order
to get a new key. She wouldnt have needed to do this if it wasnt  for Lloyds error. So, I think
Ref: DRN69090302Lloyds should  pay for this. Lloyds can arrange for this to happen at one of its repairers or
reimburse Mrs C if it prefers for her to arrange it.
I invite Mrs C to [let me know if she] has already incurred any additional costs in having to 
have the locking wheel nuts drilled off. I say this because if she has Lloyds should  
reimburse her for this if she provides an invoice showing  what  shes  paid. If Lloyds  pays 
anything for this it would  also need  to add interest  at a rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date Mrs C paid to the date it makes  payment,  due to the time shes  been  without the 
money.
Mrs C accepted my decision,  but Lloyds didnt. It said its technician  was being held 
responsible without any evidence. It queried  why Mrs C called a recovery agent  when she 
got a puncture in October  rather than claiming  on her policy.  And noted that her MOT in 
2018 showed a nail in the front nearside  tyre. It asked for evidence from Mrs C to 
substantiate the work the recovery agent and garage had done in fitting a new tyre. It said 
that my comments about the technicians version of where hed left the key were a little 
pedantic.
Mrs C clarified  that the MOT Lloyds had referred to was from 2019 not 2018. She also 
provided the invoice showing the amount shed paid to have the wheel  nuts replaced. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the MOT from 2019  showing  Mrs C had a nail in her tyre. 
While this was also the front nearside tyre, its from the following year.  So, I dont think Mrs C 
having a nail in her tyre the following year means she didnt have it replaced in 2018.
Id like to clarify that I didnt make a finding  on whether the technicians version of where he 
left the key changed, only that this was a concern Mrs C raised. 
I appreciate Lloyds feels its technician is being  held responsible without any evidence. 
However, Ive made my decision on what I think is most likely  and for the reasons explained 
in my provisional decision.  And I havent  seen anything to persuade me to depart  from my 
provisional findings. 
Mrs C has provided an invoice showing that it cost her £147.72 to have the wheel nuts 
replaced. Im satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Lloyds to 
reimburse her for this amount. Due to the time shes been without the money it should add 
interest at 8% simple  per year from the date Mrs C paid the invoice to the date it makes 
payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require Society  of Lloyds to pay Mrs C £147.72 to reimburse her 
for the wheel  nuts, plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date she paid the invoice to 
the date it makes payment1. 
1 If Society of Lloyds considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs C a certificate showing this if she 
Ref: DRN69090303Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6909030