K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
2001 and 2008. Mr and Mrs D say Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold  them  the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage in 2001; at the same time they took out a PPI policy to 
cover Mr D for accident, sickness and unemployment. Following  a six month free period, 
they paid a monthly amount for the PPI. 
In 2008 they took out additional borrowing on their mortgage. The 2001  PPI policy  was 
cancelled and separate PPI policies were taken  out each for Mr and Mrs D, with different 
benefit amounts  and different monthly premiums. As before,  Mr Ds policy provided cover 
should he be unable  to work  due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. Mrs Ds policy  only 
covered her for accident and sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policies  were optional and Mr and Mrs D had to agree 
to take the cover out. Mr and Mrs D say they were pressured into taking out the PPI and 
didnt need or want it at the time.
In relation to the policy sold in 2001, Ive been given a copy  of the mortgage application and 
this includes a section  about PPI. In this section there is a brief description  of the cover and 
two options to tick; one asking  for more information  on the product and another  stating that 
the applicant would  be making  their own arrangements. On Mr and Mrs Ds form I can see 
that the box asking for more information  has been  ticked. If they didnt want information  
about this type of cover there  was an option to refuse. 
Ive also seen the separate PPI form where Mr D is detailed as the applicant.  This form 
includes tick boxes to select the level of cover required and areas  to complete the amount of 
benefit that was needed.  I can see that the accident, sickness  and unemployment cover has 
been selected and the monthly benefit has been completed.  As this form is separate  to the 
actual mortgage  application I think Mr and Mrs D would have known that this was a separate 
product they were  taking out. 
For the PPI policies taken out in 2008, Ive seen a copy of the mortgage  application that 
Mr and Mrs D signed, this didnt  ask them to make any decision about PPI, but explained 
that YBS could  advise on products to meet their mortgage protection  needs. Ive then seen a 
Statement of Demands  and Needs which was issued shortly  afterwards.  This document  
Ref: DRN63572692refers to the discussions held with Mr and Mrs D and provides details of the 
recommendations YBS made to them about  the PPI and about  other  products like life term 
assurance and critical illness cover. This document states that Mr and Mrs D agreed  that 
they did want to take the PPI, but didnt choose to take the other  products YBS 
recommended. Mr and Mrs D were each then provided with a statement of fact and key facts 
document which set out the cost of the PPI and explained that they could cancel it if they 
changed their minds about  taking the cover. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D say they feel they were pressured to take the PPI in 2001 and 
in 2008, but I think the way the PPI was presented on both occasions  made  it clear  that the 
policies were optional.  Its certainly  possible that YBS told them they PPI was a good idea to 
protect their mortgage payments if something  went wrong, but I dont  think  this is the same 
as telling them they had to have  it or pressuring them  to take it out.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told about these sales, I think  YBS made it clear 
that Mr and Mrs D had a choice and that they agreed to take out the policies, knowing they 
could refuse  them if they didnt  want them.
YBS has said that it didnt  recommend  the 2001  policy to Mr and Mrs D. This means it didnt 
have to check that it was right for them but it did have to give them  clear  enough information 
to decide for themselves if this policy  was right for them. 
But for the policies taken  out in 2008,  YBS did provide personalised recommendations about 
taking the policies. This means that YBS had to check  that the policies were right for them  
and, based on what Ive seen, I think that they were.  I say this because  both Mr and Mrs D 
were eligible  for the cover  they took, and it doesnt  appear that they would have been 
affected by any of the main limitations  and exclusions under the policy such  as having  
unusual working  arrangements  or a medical condition of which  they were already aware. As 
a result of the discussions YBS had with Mr and Mrs D about suitability, YBS only 
recommended accident  and sickness cover  to Mrs D, as she was self-employed at the time 
and so not eligible for unemployment cover.
And it looks as though  the PPI could  have been  useful for them. From what  we have been 
told, Mr D was entitled to up to 6 months  sick pay, and as a self-employed  person, its 
unlikely Mrs D would have  received any sick pay if she had been too ill to work. But these 
policies would have  paid out for up to 12 months,  longer than any sick pay would  have 
lasted. And whilst Ive noted  Mr and Mrs D have told us their families could have helped out 
if needed, that would depend on their own circumstances at the time, so I dont think  their 
help could be guaranteed.  Mr and Mrs D have  also referred to life cover they had, but that 
wouldnt provide  the same  type of cover  as the PPI policies. 
As the mortgage  was a large  financial commitment secured against their home,  I think  by 
having these types of policies it could have given them  reassurance  if something was to go 
wrong.
It is possible that not all the information  YBS gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI was as clear  
as it should have been. But I think they chose to take out the policies  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like this cover would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. And it looks as though the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI policies would have put them off taking out the cover.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
Ref: DRN63572693But YBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because:
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premiums) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because  YBS didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit share  it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premiums. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs D any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also 
pay Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back  the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums.  I understand it has already 
done this for the policies sold in 2008,  so it should now make a payment  to Mr and Mrs D for 
the policy sold in 2001. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6357269