K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr P payment  protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2006. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered Mr Ps comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
Looking at the documents from the time,  I think Santander made Mr P aware  that the PPI 
was optional, but that he still chose  to take it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr P, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. Its likely  Mr P was eligible for 
the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would  have paid benefits  at the same time as Mr P received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when he would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage. This all would have put Mr P in a more secure position, if hed eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything to 
suggest he couldnt afford  the PPI when  he took it out. So I think  the PPI would have 
been potentially  useful, and so a recommendation was suitable. 
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mr P would have understood how 
much it would cost. 
Its possible Santander didnt  clearly point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mr P would have been affected by any of these. And hed be paying  for it 
monthly, so he could cancel it at any time without  further cost if his situation changed.
Ref: DRN62387672my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6238767