K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with how National House-Building Council (NHBC) has handled 
their claim under  their buildmark warranty.
Mr W brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife.
background
Mr and Mrs W purchased  a new build property in 2006 for which  they have a buildings 
warranty. During the first two years of owning the property, Mr W reported issues to the 
builder about the propertys  conservatory roof. The builder carried  out repairs,  but Mr W has 
said the problem  remains.
Mr W later raised  issues with NHBC regarding the front and rear first floor dormer  windows.  
After inspecting Mr Ws property in June  2016,  NHBC initially  said the windows werent 
covered under the policy. It said while there was physical damage  to the windows, the 
defects were not within an area of the property  for which  NHBC provides cover. It said there 
was no evidence of physical damage in respect of the conservatory. So, it declined both 
aspects of the claim.
In January 2017 Mr W arranged for an independent  surveyor to inspect his property. The 
surveyor concluded:
all the dormer windows are defective  and there is sufficient evidence of potential 
structural failure of the dormers, supporting  structure/floors to require further  
investigation [].
The surveyor also said the geometry  of the conservatorys roof construction was defective  
and that as it had been  an ongoing  issue since 2008, both the original builder and NHBC (if 
the builder didnt respond) would  be responsible  for the rectification works.
In its resolution report NHBC said there  was evidence to suggest  the conservatory  roof 
wasnt adequately  supported as the framework  was coming away  and the ridge had dropped  
from level. So, it instructed the builder  to carry out investigative works to ensure the 
conservatory complied  with the relevant  technical  requirements when being built.  But the 
builder didnt respond and so NHBC took over the liabilities of the original builder. NHBC
said it would  inspect the conservatory  and proposed  next steps,  but Mr W asked that further 
action was paused  while this service considered his complaint.
With regards to the windows, NHBC completed an intrusive inspection  to ascertain the 
cause of the damage. Following this it said the front dormer windows had been damaged  
as a result  of a defect  in the floor joists. And as the defect was in one of the parts  of the 
property listed under section 3 of the buildmark warranty, NHBC agreed to cover the repair  
works using  one of its contractors.
But NHBC didnt agree the rear dormer windows were defective. It said the damage was 
attributable to the windows and frames having been  incorrectly installed as there were 
insufficient suitable fixings in the upper  half of the frame where itd been  secured to the 
surrounding timber  structure. So, it didnt agree the damage had been  caused by a defect  
in a specified part of the property under the buildmark warranty.  As a result, it declined 
this aspect of the claim.
Ref: DRN68669492Mr W remained dissatisfied and so brought his complaint to this service.  In summary 
hes unhappy because:
NHBC has refused to cover  the repair works to the rear dormer  windows.
Although NHBC has agreed  to repair the front dormer windows, the original windows 
are no longer available  and so hes said the remaining  windows wont match.
Hes lost faith in NHBC  and its contractors and so he wants a cash  settlement for the 
conservatory.
His home has been left in a poor state following NHBCs intrusive inspection of his 
property.
Hes experienced  ongoing stress and disruption to his and his familys life since first 
raising the issues with NHBC.  And the problems with his property have  caused  loss 
of enjoyment for a number of years.
Hes had to pay for an independent  surveyor himself. Had he not done so, NHBC  
wouldnt have reconsidered  his claim.  So, he wants to be reimbursed the surveyors  
fees.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She was satisfied NHBC didnt need to 
do anything further  in respect  of the front dormer  windows  as it had agreed to cover  the 
repairs. She explained she couldnt ask NHBC to cover the rear dormer windows because  
the damage was due to poor installation  and not as a result of a defect in a specified part 
of the property.
She advised that Mr W would need to make a separate complaint regarding his concerns  
about the windows in his house not matching and the condition  his home had been left in 
following NHBCs intrusive inspection.
Both parties  remained unhappy and so asked for an ombudsman to decide this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to 
partially uphold  this complaint and Ill explain why.
Both parties  have provided a lot of information in relation  to this complaint. I want  to 
reassure them that Ive looked at everything  theyve submitted  but I will only 
comment on those things  I consider central  to the outcome Ive reached.
The buildmark warranty protects  an owner if the builder becomes  insolvent or fails to 
meet its obligations during the first two years  after completion. And it provides cover  
against damage caused by defects in specified  parts of the property during the three 
to ten year period after purchasing the property.
Ref: DRN68669493Under the policy, damage is defined as physical  damage to the home caused by a 
defect.
Defect is defined as:
A breach of any mandatory NHBC requirement  by the Builder  or anyone employed 
by him or acting  for him.
Here, the relevant technical requirements  are those which  were  mandatory and in 
force at the time the foundations of Mr Ws property  were  laid in 2005.
front dormer  windows
NHBC has agreed to cover the front dormer windows because the damage to the 
windows and wall finishes  was caused  by a defect in the floor joists which  is listed  as 
a specified part under section 3 of the buildmark policy. So I dont  need  to consider 
whether NHBC should cover the repairs.
Mr W has raised concerns that replacing  the front dormer windows will mean the 
remaining windows wont match. Hes said the supplier of the original windows no 
longer makes the style installed in his property.
From looking  at pictures of Mr Ws current windows, I note there isnt anything 
remarkable about  them   the windows  are not bespoke or unusual  in style and are 
white uPVC windows. Because of this, Im satisfied a suitable match could be 
sourced to provide a consistent appearance  across  Mr Ws property. As such, I dont 
agree a reasonable resolution  would be for NHBC  to replace all the windows  in his 
property.
rear dormer windows
I need to consider whether NHBC has acted  fairly  by declining  Mr Ws claim for the 
rear dormer windows. The important issues to consider are;
1.Was there physical damage? and
2.Was it was caused  by a defect  in a specified  part of the property?
Both parties  agree there is damage  to the rear windows. Mr Ws surveyor  attributes 
this to the structural opening distorting and poor installation of the windows. NHBC 
has said the damage to the windows is consistent  with defective and incorrectly  
installed windows and frames. NHBC said there  were insufficient fixings in the upper 
half of the frame where its secured  to the surrounding timber structure.
There is a technical  requirement that the design and materials  used  need  to provide 
satisfactory performance, and that the structural design meets relevant British 
Standards and Codes of Practice.
But, the reason  NHBC has declined Mr Ws claim in respect of the rear windows is 
because the damage is not caused  by a defect in a specified part of the property. 
Under the buildmark  warranty, NHBC will only be responsible for remedying  damage 
in between years 3 to 10 if the defect is in a specified part of the building.
Ref: DRN68669494Having looked  at the list of specified parts in the buildmark warranty, I agree that 
windows (whether it be the frame or structural opening of the window) are not listed 
as a specified part. Although it will be disappointing to Mr W, I cant ask NHBC to 
cover the repairs to the rear dormer windows as its not responsible for this under the 
buildmark policy.
internal repairs
Following NHBCs  intrusive inspection, it completed repair work to the areas itd had 
to inspect in order  to determine the cause of the damage to the front dormer  
windows.
Mr W has provided photographs of the repair works which show  parts of his internal  
dcor having been, in my opinion, very roughly repaired. I dont think  his home has 
been left in a reasonable state of repair and so I think its only fair that NHBC make 
good the rectification work.  Mr Ws property should  be put back  into the condition it 
was prior to the intrusive inspection   which may include painting affected  areas.  I 
know Mr W would prefer a cash settlement and to find his own tradesperson to do 
this work  but Im satisfied NHBC should be given the opportunity to do so.  If, 
following this, Mr W isnt happy  with the quality of the work,  he can make a further 
complaint about  this to NHBC.
conservatory
Mr W reported his concerns about the conservatory roof during the first two years to 
the original builder and attempts  were  made  by the builder to repair  it. But Mr W 
remained unhappy as the damage remained.  As far as Im aware, no further remedial 
work has been done to the conservatory  by either party.
In its resolution report NHBC directed the builder to conduct an investigation to 
establish whether  the conservatory  roof had been installed in accordance with the 
manufacturers recommendations, applicable British Standards and recognised best 
practice. And that the findings should  be shared with Mr W and NHBC.  It said that 
following this, the builder should  undertake any such works that may be required to 
ensure the NHBC  Technical Requirements are met.
Mr W says hes lost faith in NHBCs contractors to properly repair  the conservatory 
and so wants a cash settlement  instead. His preference is to demolish the existing 
conservatory and replace  it with a brick-built structure.
So, I need to consider  what a reasonable course of action is. Because the original 
builder didnt respond to the findings  of the resolution report,  NHBC effectively steps 
into its shoes. So, although  I appreciate  Mr Ws concerns, NHBC do need to be given 
the option to inspect the conservatory  roof, report its findings  and agree  the scope of 
works with Mr W to remedy  any damage   as this is what was asked of the original 
builder. And Im satisfied this is the appropriate  course of action.
Surveyors fees
Mr W has asked  to be reimbursed for the fees he incurred in having an independent  
surveyors report conducted. From  what Ive seen, it seems Mr Ws surveyors report  
prompted NHBC to reconsider his claim which consequently led to it agreeing  to 
Ref: DRN68669495cover the front dormer windows. It had completed a report prior to this in 2016 but 
didnt find in Mr Ws favour in respect of any aspect of his claim.
NHBC has said that if the claim was subsequently found to be valid it would 
recommend reimbursing Mr W his surveyors costs. As NHBC has agreed to cover 
part of Mr Ws claim,  Im currently  minded  to say it should pay the costs Mr W 
incurred in having an independent surveyors  report (subject  to Mr W providing proof 
of payment).
Non-financial loss
This circumstances  which led to this complaint have been going on for a number of 
years and I sympathise  with Mr W for not having his home as hed hoped  it would be 
for such a lengthy period of time.
I agree  NHBC hasnt handled  things as well as it could, and Ive seen that its actions 
led to Mr W having to chase it for updates which was frustrating and inconvenient for 
him. But NHBC has recognised that it caused Mr W inconvenience and avoidable 
delays by offering  £1,400 compensation.
While I know Mr W has experienced various issues with his home over a number of 
years, I can only consider  compensation  in respect  of NHBC from when it was aware 
there was a problem   which  was in 2016.  And I cant hold it responsible for the 
issues Mr W has experienced  with third parties.  I know Mr W doesnt  feel £1,400 
reflects the difficulties  hes experienced but from what Ive seen I think  its fair and so 
Im not minded  to ask NHBC  to increase  it.
I know my provisional findings will likely  disappoint  Mr W but I hope he understands 
why Im currently  minded  to only uphold part of his complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I partially  uphold this complaint.  National House-
Building Council  must:
Attend  Mr Ws property to inspect the damage  to the conservatory  roof; share 
its findings with Mr W; undertake any work that might be required to ensure 
the NHBC technical requirements are met.
Make  good (which may include painting)  the internal rectification work  to      
Mr Ws property  following  its intrusive inspection.
Reimburse Mr W the costs he incurred  in having  the independent surveyors  
report completed plus 8% simple interest  from the date Mr W paid the fee 
(subject to proof of costs).1
Pay Mr W £1,400 compensation if its not already done so. National House 
Building Council  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires National House-Building Council to take off tax from this interest. 
National House-Building Council  must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one. 
Ref: DRN68669496which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision 
to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. Ive summarised their points below in 
respect of each aspect  of Mr Ws complaint. 
front dormer  windows
Mr W says he was willing to tentatively  accept the scope of works originally drawn  up by 
NHBC to repair  the damage to the front dormer windows which  was caused by a defect  in 
the floor joists. Mr W says the work didnt commence because a contractor  for the original 
house builder  tried to negotiate an alternative  specification which  he wasnt  prepared  to 
agree to. 
NHBC has said its accepted this aspect of the claim and is prepared to carry out repairs  in 
line with its scope of works. NHBC has said there is the possibility of it providing a cash  
settlement for the works if Mr W would prefer this. But the cash  settlement would be in line 
with the policy criteria  and would be based  on the cost to NHBC if it were  to complete the 
works. It added the cash settlement would be for the required works and not for the 
additional works Mr W is asking to be covered.
Mr W has said his windows are a unique  design and as such  they cannot  be matched. He 
says this is supported  by the window manufacturer. NHBC has said its not required to 
replace items in order to match existing ones as this is specifically excluded under the policy.
rear dormer windows
Mr W says NHBC has incorrectly asserted there  isnt a specific  performance standard  in 
respect of windows. He says windows need to comply  with both British standards and 
regulations, and that this is set out in the technical requirements. Mr W says the windows are 
in breach of the NHBC standards because they arent fully plumb and sealed, and so NHBC 
is bound  to remedy them under the terms of the buildmark  policy.
NHBC maintains the rear dormer windows arent covered under the policy because the 
defect is not within a specified part of the building.  
internal repairs
Mr W wants the internal repair works  to be completed to all affected areas, including  walls, 
ceilings, coving, skirtings,  dcor  and anything else damaged as a result of the works.  
I provided NHBC with photographs showing the internal repairs  completed  to Mr Ws 
property following the intrusive inspection. In response, NHBC has agreed to take this into 
account when  settling the claim. It said this would  be in respect  of damage caused internally 
as a result  of the specific defects its agreed to cover. 
conservatory
Mr W has said as the conservatory  has been  surveyed and repaired multiple times, he 
doesnt feel NHBC needs to attend  his property again to inspect  it. Instead,  Mr W wants the 
monetary value of his conservatory paid to him so he can replace it with a brick  structure.
Ref: DRN68669497NHBC has said its prepared to carry out the requirements of its resolution report but that it 
will need  to complete further investigations to determine the full extent of the situation. It will 
then carry out works to resolve the defect in line with its liabilities.  It has said it may be able 
to provide a cash  settlement, but this would be in line with the costs itd incur if it were to 
complete the works - not the value  of the conservatory. 
surveyors fees
Mr W has provided two invoices  in respect  of the independent surveyor he appointed. I 
shared these with NHBC for it to consider. In response, NHBC said its only prepared to pay 
the invoice dated 6 January 2017  as this report led it to review its initial decision to repudiate 
the claim and instead accept the front dormer windows should  be covered. 
non-financial loss
Mr W has asked  that I reconsider  the amount of compensation awarded by NHBC. Hes said 
that in addition to suffering from ongoing  stress  and loss of enjoyment of his home, hes also 
incurred increased  heating bills because of the poorly insulated bedrooms.  Hes also said 
hes lost out on earnings as a result of having to deal with the claim for a disproportionate 
amount of time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im partially upholding 
this complaint and Ill explain  why.
front dormers 
From what  Ive seen, both parties are willing to have the repairs to the front dormer  windows  
completed in line with the original scope of works drawn up by NHBC. And Im satisfied this 
is a reasonable  resolution. 
NHBC has said it might be able to provide a cash settlement in respect of this. If it does and 
Mr W chooses to accept  this, he must  keep  in mind that the amount offered will be based  on 
the costs NHBC would incur if it were  to appoint a contractor to complete the works. Its likely 
that NHBC will be able to negotiate discounts  with contractors  and as such  the amount of a 
cash settlement could be less that it would cost Mr W to arrange his own repairs.  And the 
cash settlement would only be for the agreed  scope of works. 
I know Mr W remains concerned about his windows not matching  hes said the windows 
are unique and no longer  made by the manufacturer.  But as I said in my provisional 
decision, from looking at the photos  of Mr Ws windows, Im satisfied alternative windows 
could be sourced from another manufacturer which would allow  a consistent look to be 
achieved. So, I wont be asking NHBC to replace  all the windows in his property.
rear dormer windows
In my provisional decision I accepted there  is a technical requirement  that both the design 
and materials for windows needs to provide satisfactory performance,  and that the structural 
Ref: DRN68669498design meets British  Standards and Codes of Practice. But this isnt the reason why NHBC 
has declined  this aspect  of Mr Ws claim.
Instead, its been declined (and I agree fairly) because the defect isnt in a specified part of 
the building  and it needs to be for the claim to be valid. Window  frames are not listed  as a 
specified part under  the buildmark warranty and so I wont be asking NHBC to cover this 
aspect of Mr Ws claim. 
internal repairs
My position  remains the same that NHBC should  be given the opportunity  to complete the 
internal rectification work  thats attributable to the intrusive survey.  
Any internal  damage  caused as a result  of repairing the defect in connection  with the front 
dormer windows should also be made  good.  
If Mr W has any concerns  about the standard of this following completion, hed need to raise  
this with NHBC as a separate complaint. 
conservatory
While I understand Mr Ws reluctance  in having NHBC visit his property  to assess the extent 
of the work required, NHBC wont be able to calculate a cash  settlement or draw  up a scope 
of works, if it doesnt have  the opportunity to attend.  So, my position remains  the same  that 
NHBC needs to attend Mr Ws property to inspect  the conservatory and following this it 
should its findings with Mr W so the scope  of works can be agreed.
NHBC has said it might be able to offer a cash settlement which  would allow Mr W to appoint  
his own contractor to complete  the works. If NHBC chooses to offer a cash  settlement and 
Mr W accepts  it, its important he is aware the cash settlement will likely be based on the 
costs NHBC would incur if it were to complete  the work.  And that the cash settlement would 
be for the works required  to repair the conservatory,  not its monetary value. I know  Mr W 
wants the cash settlement  to enable him to build a new brick-built  structure but thats not 
something NHBC is required to do under the policy.
surveyors fees
Mr W has provided two invoices  in respect  of the independent surveyor he appointed. The 
invoices are dated January 2017 and January  2019 respectively. NHBC has agreed to 
reimburse the costs  Mr W incurred in having  the initial survey carried out (invoice dated 
January 2017) as the findings from this survey  led NHBC  to review its position  and accept  
responsibility for repairing the damage  to the front dormer windows. 
NHBC has said the second independent  report didnt lead it to change  its position, and so it 
doesnt think it should reimburse the cost of this. 
It was ultimately Mr Ws decision  to instruct  an independent  surveyor  and incur the costs 
associated with doing so. Under the policy, NHBC isnt obligated to pay these but in the 
interest of fairness, I explained that I think  it should reimburse Mr W the cost of having  the 
initial survey  completed because this led to it changing  its position. But I dont think  NHBC 
needs to reimburse  Mr W for the surveyors subsequent costs  as its position has remained 
the same  since the surveyors initial findings.  
Ref: DRN68669499non-financial loss
I dont doubt this has been  a stressful experience  for Mr W, but as I explained in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied the total compensation  (£1,400) offered by NHBC fairly  
reflects the inconvenience he and his family has experienced. 
Its not unusual  with claims such as Mr Ws  where  investigations and remedial works are 
required - for it to take time for things to progress. Likewise,  needing  to invest time in the 
claim is inevitable. NHBC  has said it could have,  at times, handled  things better, and its 
offered compensation to reflect this. 
financial loss
Mr W has said hes incurred increased heating costs  as a result  of the ill-fitting windows. The 
onus is ultimately on Mr W to prove  this rather than it being for NHBC to disprove it  but he 
hasnt provided  evidence to substantiate  this aspect of his claim. I dont have much detail 
about Mr Ws family circumstances  and whether there were  changes to it which might have 
led to increased heating costs. I must also keep in mind that energy costs increase overtime,  
so its not reasonable to exclusively attribute Mr Ws higher heating bills to the problems hes 
experienced with his windows. 
So, on balance, I cant conclusively say his heating  costs  have  gone  up, or by how much  as 
a result of the issues hes experienced. As such,  I wont be recommending  that NHBC 
reimburses him in respect of this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint. Unless NHBC offers a cash 
settlement which  Mr W chooses to accept, then it will need to do the following. 
National House-Building Council must:
-Complete repairs to the front dormer  windows in line with NHBCs original scope of 
works. And make good internal damage which directly stems from repair  works  
carried out in respect  of the defect affecting  the front dormer windows. 
-Attend  Mr Ws property to inspect the damage  to the conservatory  roof; share its 
findings with Mr W; undertake any work that might be required to ensure the NHBC 
technical requirements are met. 
-Make  good (which may include painting)  the internal rectification work  to Mr Ws 
property following its intrusive  inspection. 
-Reimburse Mr W the cost he incurred  in having  the initial independent  surveyors  
report completed (invoice dated  6 January 2017) plus 8% simple interest from the 
date Mr W paid the fee to when payment  is made  (subject  to proof  of costs).2
-Pay Mr W £1,400 compensation if its not already done so. National House-Building 
Council must pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it           
2 HM Revenue & Customs requires National House-Building Council  to take off tax from this interest. National 
House-Building Council  must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
Ref: DRN686694910Mr W accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6866949