K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  about the way Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office  Money) 
dealt with her complaint  about a claim she made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (Section  75).
background
In April 2017 Miss K ordered two sofas from a furniture store. They  were  delivered in 
July 2017. Miss K thought  the quality was poor because patterns between  sections didnt 
match and because  the sofa legs hadnt been  fitted correctly. She complained to the store.  A 
technician and a store manager looked at the sofas.  They didnt think  there  was a 
manufacturing fault so the store didnt agree to do anything. 
Miss K didnt think this was fair. As shed paid for the sofas using her Post Office Money 
credit card she made a claim under  Section 75. Post Office Money considered  her claim but 
ultimately decided  not to accept it. Although it did offer her £100 compensation in recognition  
of the poor service  shed received while her claim was considered. 
Miss K remained unhappy so she complained  to our service. The investigator thought it had 
been reasonable for Post Office Money to decline Miss Ks claim.  This was because  he 
thought Miss K got the sofas shed  ordered and he didnt think there was anything wrong 
with them.  He didnt  think her complaint against  Post Office Money should be upheld. Miss K 
didnt agree. She wanted a second  opinion so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I considered the complaint and came  to a slightly different conclusion to the investigator.  I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss K bought  the sofas using her Post Office  Money credit card. Under section  75, 
in certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim  against  Post Office  Money  
as she does the supplier (the store) if theres been  a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
My role isnt to decide Post Office Moneys liability under  Section 75. Instead, as 
statute requires me to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into 
account any relevant  law, such  as the Consumer Credit Act. 
To help me decide this, Ive looked  at whether theres been a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract in the supply of the two sofas  to Miss K. Miss K specifically raised  
three issues when she first complained to Post Office Money. Ill cover all of these 
here.
the patterns  between  sections not matching
I can understand Miss Ks disappointment. She paid a lot of money for sofas thinking 
the patterns  would match, and they dont. In her view this means the sofas are 
not of merchantable  quality and fit for purpose.  But I dont think theres  a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation here.
Ref: DRN67147202Miss K received the make  and model of sofas she ordered. From  what  Ive seen 
theres nothing in the product description  to say patterns  between  sections should 
match. And my understanding is that the manufacturer doesnt  offer pattern match to 
keep costs down.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a term into the contract between Miss K and 
the store that the sofas should be of satisfactory  quality. I think this is what  Miss K 
means when she refers to merchantable  quality and fit for purpose. Satisfactory 
quality is what a reasonable person would expect,  taking  into account all of the 
relevant circumstances, such as the age and cost of the sofas at the point of sale. If 
the sofas werent of satisfactory quality, that would be a breach of contract by the 
supplier. 
The technician and the store manager  looked  at the sofas and concluded there were 
no manufacturing faults with them. I accept that neither of them were independent. 
But theyre the only people with industry knowledge to see the sofas. With this in 
mind, and with no evidence to the contrary,  Im satisfied the sofas were free from 
manufacturing faults. And as Ive already concluded the sofas  didnt have to pattern  
match, I dont think the patterns  not matching means  the sofas werent  of satisfactory  
quality. 
Ive considered the stores cancellation policy. For anything other  than bespoke  
goods, the policy says a buyer has 14 days to cancel an order once delivery  has 
been made. For bespoke  goods, however, no cancellation will be accepted once 
delivery has been made. The sofas  Miss K ordered were bespoke and delivered.  So 
the contract  didnt allow for her order to be cancelled. So I dont think the store  
breached its contract  with Miss K by not accepting  the return of the sofas  when 
Miss K said she didnt want them.
Ive seen photos of the sofas  on the website. I dont think they show a pattern  match.  
I accept the match is closer than on Miss Ks sofas.  But Miss K based her decision to 
order the sofas after looking at a display  model in store. Ive seen photos of the 
display model. The patterns  dont match. So I dont think the display model could 
have led Miss K to think that the patterns  on her sofas would match.  And I havent 
been made aware of anything the store said or displayed which  could have led 
Miss K to think  that the patterns would match. So I dont think  the store  
misrepresented the sofas.
the legs werent fitted correctly
The sofa legs Miss K chose were delivered  with the sofas and fitted. As I understand 
it, theres nothing wrong with them. Miss K says they werent fitted  correctly  and that 
she was told they need tightening. She says the store hasnt  rectified this, so the legs 
still havent been fitted correctly.  
Post Office  Money has accepted  the legs weren't fitted correctly, but says it has no 
evidence to say the advice Miss K received to tighten them hasnt fixed the issue. 
Ultimately though, I think the legs should have been fitted correctly. So I think  the 
store breached its contract with Miss K. And from what Miss K has said, they still 
need tightening. 
Ref: DRN67147203The remedy  here would appear to be for the legs to be tightened by a technician, to 
ensure theyre  fitted correctly. I think Post Office Money, under its obligations under 
Section 75, should arrange  for this to happen.
Miss K says the legs not being fitted  correctly  could have  caused long term damage 
to the sofas frame, springs  and webbing, reducing the life of the sofas. I accept this 
is possible. But Ive been provided  with no evidence to suggest  this is the case with 
Miss Ks sofas. If Miss K can demonstrate  this has happened Ill consider this aspect 
of the complaint further before issuing my final decision.  
customer service
Miss K has said she had to contact  Post Office Money many  times throughout her 
claim. She says despite saying how difficult it would be to get an independent report 
on the condition  of the sofas Post Office Money continued to ask for one. And she 
says she couldnt  communicate with Post Office  Money by her preferred method. 
Post Office  Money has accepted  it should have handled her claim better and has 
offered her £100  compensation  in recognition of this. I think this amount fairly reflects  
the distress and inconvenience  Miss K was caused by Post Office Moneys poor 
customer service. 
Miss K didnt accept  my provisional decision. She remained of the opinion there was a 
problem because the patterns between sections didnt match. And she doesnt think £100 
compensation reflects the time, stress and frustration shes  suffered. She also arranged  for 
an independent inspection of the sofas.  Ive seen  the report. It says:
The technician finds the consumer's complaint partly  justified.  The back legs are loose and 
able to rotate easily due to the lack of security screws. The complaint of the pattern  matching 
is not justified.  The technician visited the retailer and inspected  the showroom model and 
found this to be the same and therefore  feels that this is in specification for this model .
Following the report  Miss K said she remained of the opinion  she should  receive a refund for 
the sofas from Post Office  Money because the sofa legs hadnt  been installed correctly and 
safely. She also felt Post Office Money was responsible for arranging  and paying  for the 
independent inspection.
Post Office  Money didnt initially agree there  was a problem with the sofa legs.  But following 
the independent inspection report it accepted they hadnt been fitted correctly and that this 
needed rectifying. It agreed  to pay Miss K £100 to cover  the cost of arranging for this to 
happen. 
The investigator asked  Miss K if she thought  £100 would be enough to get the legs fitted  
correctly. Miss K responded  to say she still thought Post Office Money should refund the 
cost of the sofas. She didnt comment on whether £100 would be enough  to get the sofa legs 
fitted correctly.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67147204I still dont think there  was a breach of contract or misrepresentation on the part of the 
supplier in regard  to the patterns between  sections not matching. Miss K hasnt provided  any 
further comments on this, and the independent  inspection she commissioned supports the 
content of my provisional decision   that is, that Miss K got what she ordered  and it was the 
same as the model  on display in the store. 
Its been confirmed  through  the independent inspection, and accepted by Post Office Money, 
that the sofa legs werent fitted correctly. Miss K thinks the legs not being fitted correctly 
means Post Office Money should  refund to her the cost of the sofas.  I think not fitting the 
legs correctly is a breach  of contract  by the supplier. But this can be put right by having the 
legs fitted correctly. I think this is the proportionate  remedy here.
Post Office  Money has offered to pay Miss K £100  to arrange for the legs to be fitted 
correctly. My understanding  is that this will be a fairly minor job. So I think its most  likely 
£100 will be enough  money to ensure Miss K isnt out of pocket as a result of needing to get 
the legs fitted correctly.  It follows that I consider Post Office  Moneys  offer of £100 to be fair 
and reasonable.
Miss K thinks Post Office Money should  have arranged an independent inspection when she 
first made her claim, and feels it should  pay for the one she arranged recently  it cost £150.  
I dont agree. It was for Miss K to show Post Office  Money she had a valid claim under 
Section 75. It asked  her on several occasions  to arrange an independent  inspection  to 
support her claim. She declined to do so until receipt of my provisional  decision. The report 
doesnt support  her core claim  that she wasnt provided with sofas  of satisfactory  quality. 
And Id already concluded the sofa legs hadnt been  fitted correctly.  In these circumstances I 
dont think I can fairly  say Post Office Money should  reimburse her the £150 she spent on 
the independent inspection. 
Miss K has said the £100 compensation offered by Post Office Money doesnt reflect the 
time, stress and frustration this matter has caused  her. I can understand why she feels this 
way. And as I set out in my provisional decision, I think  Post Office  Money  could have 
handled her claim better. But pursuing a claim is inevitably going to be inconvenient. Overall,  
I think £100 reasonably compensates Miss K for Post Office Moneys poor customer  service.  
Ref: DRN67147205my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Bank  of Ireland  (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Money)  
to:
-pay Miss K £100 so she can arrange  for the sofas legs to be fitted correctly; and
-pay Miss K £100 compensation for the poor customer service she received, as it has 
offered to do.
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Money) must pay the compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than 
this it must also pay interest  on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2019.
 
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6714720