K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  said theyre unhappy with advice received  from Insight
Financial Associates Limited  (Insight) to switch their pensions  to a Family Pension  Trust
In order to invest in two properties in Cape Verde.
background
In early 2009 Mr S agreed to invest in a property scheme operated by The Resort Group.  Mr  
S was referred to an adviser who recommended he switch a personal pension  to a self 
invested personal pension (SIPP) in order to make  the investment via the SIPP.   Mr and Mrs 
S then signed reservation forms for a number of properties in Cape Verde.  Mr  S became 
concerned that the SIPP operator had no experience of purchasing property in Cape Verde..
Mr S was then referred to Insight.  In July 2009 an Insight adviser recommended  Mr and Mrs 
S to consolidate Mr Ss existing SIPP and a number  of other personal pensions into the 
Rowanmoor Family Pension  Trust.  
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was considered by an investigator.  It was his view that the advice 
given to Mr and Mrs S was unsuitable.   However,  Mr S acted as an agent and adviser for 
The Resort  Group and had already decided to purchase the Cape Verde properties before 
approaching the adviser.  Because of this the investigator concluded  that if Mr and Mrs S 
had been advised not to go ahead with the investment they would not have heeded this 
advice.
Mr S did not agree  with the investigator.  He made  the following points:
The comment that he had advised  clients to invest in Cape Verde is incorrect.  He 
only referred clients to The Resort Group.   The Resort  Group  arranged  for investors 
to receive financial  advice.
He was told that if either him or his wife died before the age of 75 there would be no 
tax liability on the pension fund.  Due to the SIPP  breaking HMRC rules this is not the 
case.  If he had known this he would not have gone ahead  with the switch  to the 
Family Pension Trust.  
Either the firm or the SIPP operator  should have established that Cape Verde does 
not recognise trusts.
He feels let down  by both the firm and the SIPP operator.  He  was advised to make a 
complaint against Insight rather  than the SIPP operator.
Mr S is also unsure why some  investors have  been compensated by the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme for similar advice  but him and his wife are not. 
The firm said the following: 
Mr and Mrs S both received substantial  payments  from The Resort  Group  for the purchase 
of the Cape Verde properties.
They had also visited Cape Verde to view the properties.
Ref: DRN65480092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs S have  also made a complaint about the SIPP  operator.   This complaint will only 
look at the actions of Insight.  
Mr and Mrs S invested in The Family Trust  this is a type of self invested personal  pension 
(SIPP).  
Mr S was advised to switch a personal pension  to a SIPP  in order to invest in properties in 
Cape Verde.  This advice  was not given by Insight.  He did not make the investment via this 
SIPP because the SIPP operator did not have experience of purchasing  properties in Cape 
Verde.  Mr and Mrs S were then advised  to switch the original SIPP and some  personal 
pensions to the Rowanmoor Family Trust in order to purchase the Cape Verde properties.  
When advising on a SIPP, consideration should be given,  if known, to the investment to be 
held within  the SIPP.  If the investment to be held within the SIPP is unsuitable then the 
advice to set up the SIPP  would be unsuitable.   It is clear that at the time of the advice the 
adviser knew that it was the intention of Mr and Mrs S to invest  in Cape Verde property once 
the switch to the Family SIPP had taken place.
The suitability report of 10 July 2009  says the following about the proposed  property 
purchase:
 You have  recently  purchased two Cape  Verde properties and wish to explore the 
possibilities of purchasing these properties via your pension fund. This is an option that has 
only just become available.
There is the possibility  that your existing pension scheme could facilitate the Cape
Verde property purchase, however, {the original SIPP operator}  have confirmed that they 
have as yet not purchased any properties  in Cape Verde and it was your desire to use a 
pension scheme  that has experience for such purchases.
It should be noted however that for the purposes of this investment the Cape  Verde property 
would be deemed  to be a high risk investment, i.e. Risk 10. This is because you are 
reducing the diversification of your overall  investment by having a large  allocation  in 
property. I would also point out that the property investment  is a non-regulated investment, 
which means that unlike  traditional styled pensions and investments the property purchase 
would not be regulated  by the Financial  Services Authority.
You have  confirmed that whilst you acknowledge this as being a higher risk investment you 
were happy  to proceed on this basis.
In my view the report makes clear  that the Cape Verde investment  which  was given a 
maximum risk rating of 10 exceeded the recorded attitude to risk of Mr S - which  was 7-8.  
The report  also says that Mr and Mrs Ss pensions were significantly over-exposed to 
property investments.  And that this lack of diversification further  increased  the risk of the 
proposed Family Trust SIPPs.  The lack of regulatory protections that apply when 
purchasing overseas property was also made clear.
Ref: DRN65480093Whilst the report does  not contain an explicit statement that the adviser  considered the the 
Cape Verde investments  (and as a result  the Family Trust SIPPs)  to be unsuitable  in my 
view the inference is clear.  I am satisfied that an explicit recommendation not to make  the 
proposed investment in the Cape  Verde properties should have been made.  However, I 
dont think anyone reading the report would  have been in any doubt that the adviser viewed 
the Cape Verde investments (and as a result the SIPPs) as unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S.
I therefore consider  that even if Insight had explicitly advised  Mr and Mrs S not to switch to 
the Family Trust SIPPs in order to make the Cape Verde investments I consider  it more 
likely than not that they would still have gone  ahead.
I have noted what  Mr S has said about  not giving advice about  The Resort Groups Cape 
Verde properties.   However, this is not consistent with the contemporaneous documentary 
evidence.  The fact find completed by Mr S in July 2009 contains the following comments  
about Mr Ss activities in relation to The Resort Group and Cape Verde properties:
You made it clear  that as {a financial services professional} you are well equipped to deal 
with your own finances and therefore  did not want to complete a full fact find. Although  I 
understand you have relevant knowledge  and experience to manage your financial affairs  
and in property  as an asset, I have made  you aware  of the risks in not providing this 
information regarding  the advice I am able to provide. You have  informed me that you have 
already decided to purchase this specific investment and are experienced enough to 
understand the implications.
The July 2009  suitability report said:
You are an agent of the Resort  Group  and have  introduced and recommended
that several of your clients invest into the specific Cape Verde overseas
investment. You have  now made  the decision to purchase these investments and
the method to do so prior to meeting with me (as confirmed on your reservation
forms).
As an agent and introducer, you are well aware of all the options available  to
access this investment (as you have advised your clients on this previously).You
have informed me that you have already decided to purchase these via your
pension funds.
So I am satisfied that whatever advice had been  given by Insight it is more likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs S would have gone ahead with the investments irrespective.  They  had 
already decided in principle to purchase  the properties and signed  reservation forms.  Given 
Mr Ss role as an agent and adviser in relation to the Cape Verde properties  I doubt  anything 
the adviser might have  said would have deterred them from going ahead.  In my view Mr S 
would have had detailed knowledge of the Cape Verde scheme  and in all probability 
considered he knew  more about  the risks and rewards of the scheme than the adviser.   As I 
said earlier  it is clear from the report that the advice was that the risk level of the proposed 
investments was significantly higher than Mr Ss recorded attitude to risk  but this did not 
deter Mr and Mrs S from going  ahead.  
   
Insight might have decided not to act for Mr and Mrs S.  Had it declined to act for Mr and Mrs 
S I consider they would have been able to find an adviser who would  have been  prepared to 
go ahead  on an insistent  customer  basis (particularly given  Mr Ss background) or 
Ref: DRN65480094alternatively a SIPP  operator that would have accepted non advised  clients.   So in any event 
Mr and Mrs S would have gone  ahead with the investment.  
Later problems  with the Cape Verde properties
There have been  problems which emerged  later with the Cape Verde investment.  The  
property valuation is disappointing and properties are proving difficult  to sell.  
However, the principal  issue that concerns Mr and Mrs S is the issue surrounding Cape 
Verde law and the fact that it does not recognise  trusts.  It was the original intention of 
Rowanmoor to set up a sub trust with the investor(s) and Rowanmoor Trustees  as joint 
trustees.  However, Cape Verde law does not recognise trusts  and so Mr and Mrs S would 
be considered  to own the property directly.  I understand that the remedy proposed  by 
Rowanmoor is to have  Rownamoor Trustees as the sole trustees.  It is Rowanmoors 
understanding that this overcomes the problem with Cape Verde law and avoids any issue  
with HMRC.  However, Mr and Mrs S have made  a separate complaint against Rowanmoor 
and this will establish whether their concerns  are valid.
However, I dont think that the failure  of Insight to identify this issue  at the advice stage was 
a failing on the part of Insight.  I do not consider it reasonable to have expected  the adviser 
to have been aware the method of holding Cape  Verde  property  within the SIPP  proposed 
by Rowanmoor was inappropriate - assuming it was.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6548009