K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Payzone  UK Limited  misled him when it sold payment terminal hire 
agreements to him. Hed like to cancel the agreements.
background
In February 2019  Mr C took out hire agreements  for four payment terminals, to allow  him to 
take payments  for his business. Hes unhappy  about the charges on his accounts, which  he 
says he didnt know about or agree  to, and that some of the terminals didnt work properly. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He said there  had been  
misinformation at the point of sale. He found  it unlikely that Mr C had signed  each agreement 
or the direct debit  forms. And he wasnt convinced that Payzone provided  copies of the 
agreements to Mr C. 
Our investigator said that Payzone should  cancel the agreements, refund some of the 
charges and pay £150 compensation  to Mr C. Payzone didnt agree and so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
At its heart, this complaint  is about  whether Mr C was given correct information about, and 
agreed to, the terms of the payment terminal hire agreements. 
There are some matters on which the parties agree:
Payzone agreed a monthly charge  for the mobile  payment  terminals of £20. The hire 
agreements say it is £22 (plus  VAT).
Payzone applied a charge related to data security services (the PCI charge) four times:  
this is an optional  service  which  is charged  on a per business  basis, not per terminal. So 
if agreed (which Mr C disputes), it should  only have been applied  once.
some  of the payment terminals had to be replaced.
There are several points on which the parties dont agree: 
Mr C says he didnt sign each of the four agreements. Payzone  says this is a required 
part of its process.
Mr C says the charges were  not explained  to him at the point of sale or afterwards. He 
says he didnt opt for the PCI service and shouldnt have been charged  for it.
Payzones sales agent set up three direct debits in Mr Cs name to pay charges to the 
card issuer. Two of the paying accounts  were not in Mr Cs name  and Mr C says he 
didnt sign the forms.
Mr C says he wasnt sent copies  of the agreements or cancellation information. Payzone  
says these would have been  sent to him automatically. 
Ref: DRN66357882the signatures on the agreements and the direct debit mandates
Payzone provided copies of four hire agreements, a merchant application form and three 
direct debit mandate forms,  each with Mr Cs signature.
Mr C says he didnt sign all of the hire agreements. He says he provided  one signature on 
the sales agents tablet computer. 
Because of the way the mobile terminals would be used, direct  debits  were  set up from 
accounts in the name of the terminal users.  Mr C would use the static terminal and one 
mobile terminal, so there was one direct debit from Mr Cs account.  Mr C says he signed one 
direct debit mandate. The other direct  debits were set up from accounts  in the names  of the 
persons that would use the other mobile  terminals. However, while  the account numbers and 
sort codes  were correct  the mandates were set up in Mr Cs name and purport to be signed 
by Mr C. Mr C says he didnt sign these other direct debit mandates. 
Payzone says its process requires that each agreement is signed  individually. Theres no 
doubt though that Payzone has documents with Mr Cs signature:  what Mr C disputes is that 
he signed each  of these documents.
On the four copy  hire agreements provided by Payzone, all of the signatures appear  to be 
identical. Like the investigator, I think its unlikely these signatures would be exactly  the 
same if the agreements were signed individually on a tablet. Mr C says he didnt sign the 
other two direct debit  mandates:  these accounts werent in his name and he didnt have 
authority to authorise  payments  from these accounts. I think its likely  the sales  agent 
understood how the payment terminals would  be used  that the direct debits would be set 
up from the users account. Its likely Mr C provided the account details. I think  its less likely 
he signed the mandates  and I think the sales agent should  have  queried  it if he had.
On balance, Im not persuaded  these  documents were all signed, individually and knowingly, 
by Mr C. However, Mr C met with the sales agent,  he signed some of the documents  and he 
took delivery of the payment terminals and used them  in his business.  So, regardless of 
whether he signed  each  document individually, its clear that Mr C did intend to enter into 
agreements for the hire of the payment terminals.
what was Mr C told about the charges and costs of the hire agreements?
Mr C says he wasnt given correct information  about the charges. I find this credible for the 
following reasons.  
First, after the complaint came to us, Payzone accepted the monthly charge it applied was 
different to the amount  the sales agent agreed with Mr C. It wrongly applied the PCI four 
times. This doesnt  necessarily mean it made  other errors  but it supports what Mr C says 
about feeling he was misled. Unfortunately, Payzone cant provide recordings of the calls 
between Mr C and the sales agent.  
Second, it looks as if the first invoices were  issued on 28 February 2019. Mr C raised  his 
concerns about  the charges on 8 March 2019   less a week  after hed have received the 
invoices. I think this supports Mr Cs account  that he wasnt  previously aware of the charges. 
Mr C had a short period (five days) in which he could cancel the agreements. I might reach a 
different conclusion here if Payzone could show that Mr C was given copies of the 
Ref: DRN66357883agreements and correct  information about the charges so that he had an opportunity to 
cancel if he wasnt happy. 
Payzone says copy documents are sent automatically. It provided its audit trail which shows 
Mr C signed a document electronically (which is consistent with what  Mr C told us) and a 
document was then emailed to Mr C. 
Payzone says it sent a summary to Mr C of what had been agreed. It provided a copy  and I 
can see that boxes  were ticked to show Mr C agreed the key terms. But this includes the 
incorrect (£22) monthly rental amount for the mobile terminals. Id have expected Mr C (or 
the sales agent) to notice this when confirming the terms.  
I understand that Payzone has automated processes and the audit trail doesnt show  the 
type or content  of documents attached to emails. In some circumstances, the audit trail 
would be sufficient evidence that a document had been sent to a customer. But Im not 
persuaded thats the case here, given the other errors and inconsistencies. 
would Mr C have acted  differently if hed been  given correct information about the charges at 
the time of the sale?
Mr C contacted Payzone on 8 March  shortly  after receiving the first invoices - to complain 
about the charges and ask to cancel all agreements.  This suggests to me that he wouldnt 
have taken out the agreements if hed been aware  of the costs involved. 
One of the charges Mr C says he wasnt told about  during the sales  process is payable to a 
third party card issuer. I understand this isnt a charge applied by Payzone. But I think  its 
reasonable for Mr C to want  to know about all of the costs related to the hire agreements 
when making his decision.  
what should happen now?
Mr C intended to enter agreements with Payzone for the hire of payment terminals. Payzone 
accepts it made errors and said it will correct the charges that were wrongly applied. In many 
cases this would be reasonable  outcome: Id find it fair that the agreement should  continue 
on the terms that were  agreed. But I think here there are too many  questions remaining 
about what happened during the sales process and what  information Mr C was given. I dont 
think I have enough  evidence to reach a fair conclusion  about what Mr C was told and what  
he thought hed agreed to. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair for Payzone to require  Mr C to continue  with the 
agreements. So it should:
cancel each agreement;
refund  or write off any charges incurred since 19 March  2019  when Mr C cancelled his 
direct debits;
refund  all four of the PCI charges;
refund  any monthly hire charges in excess of the £20 it told Mr C would apply;
pay £150 compensation for the trouble  and upset  caused by this matter.
Ref: DRN66357884my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Payzone  UK Limited  to take the steps and 
pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6635788