Complaint
Mr L1, represented  by a family member Mr L2, complains that the car he acquired through a 
hire purchase agreement (HPA) with FCE Bank Plc was not of satisfactory  quality.
Background
Mr L1 entered into a HPA with FCE Bank  in May 2015 to acquire a used  car. He says that in 
February / early March 2018  he experienced issues with the car and that the engine  then 
failed after only 55,000 miles.  Mr L2 believes the engine failure was due to a fault with the 
car. 
Mr L2 says that although Mr L1 has been accused of modifying the car this hadnt happened. 
He says the repairs should  be carried out at no cost to Mr L1 as he believes the engine  
failed prematurely and that the issues were  linked to a fault with the car for which a recall 
had been issued.
FCE Bank says that Mr L2 contacted it in August 2018 and explained that in February 2018 
the car jolted  forward and then a loud noise was heard. FCE Bank  contacted the dealer and 
was told that the issue  with the car wasnt linked to the known issue regarding  the Eco Boost 
recall and that it was likely a piston had broken. It says the dealership  raised concerns about 
the engine having been modified.
After some discussions  it was agreed  that the cars engine would be stripped for further 
investigation at no cost to Mr L1. It was found  that the bearing had broken up causing small 
bits of metal  to pass through the engine resulting in the need to replace the engine.  The 
mechanic didnt believe the issue to be linked to the car overheating. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that having taken into account the 
opinions of the engineers  and the amount of miles that were able to be travelled in the car he 
couldnt fairly say the engine failed due to an inherent fault.
Mr L2 responded to our adjudicators view. He noted  that although a mechanic had said the 
engine should  be replaced he wasnt able to get a report  confirming this. He was unhappy 
with how the dealership  had dealt with the issues raised.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L1 acquired a car through a HPA and so, under the regulations, FCE Bank  can be held 
liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory  quality takes 
into factors  such as the age and mileage of the car. In this case  the car was around two 
years old and had been  driven  around 12,400 miles at acquisition.
Mr L1 says that the cars engine failed in early  2018.  By this time the car had passed two 
MOTs, in April 2016 and April 2017.  Mr L1 says that when the issue  occurred the car had 
been driven around 55,000 miles, so Mr L1 had been able to drive the car around 43,000 
miles. I note the comments  about  modifications to the car and that Mr L1 disputes this.
Ref: DRN63086132Given the time that had passed  since acquisition, the mileage covered, and that the car had 
passed two MOTs I would usually find it reasonable to accept that the onus would be on 
Mr L1 to show any issues present with the car were there  from the point of supply. 
In this case the car was the subject  of a recall.  The recall related to issues  of overheating. 
Although the initial assessment of the car suggested the issues werent to do with 
overheating, I find it reasonable that further inspection took place. This happened at no cost 
to Mr L1.
Following the engine being  stripped down it was explained that the issue was thought  to be 
due to the bearing breaking up and small bits of metal passing through various  parts of the 
engine. Through  this investigation, further  information has also been gained  from technical 
support which  said that had the issue with the car been linked  to the recall issue  it would 
have expected the head gasket to have  failed as well as the piston and with only piston 
failure it was unlikely the issue  was linked to the recall issue.  
In order for me to hold FCE Bank liable for the engine replacement  I would need to be 
satisfied that the issue  that caused the engine failure was present or developing at the point 
of supply. The recall  relates to issues regarding overheating and with the head gasket or 
degas hose. Based on the information  provided I do not find I have enough  to say that the 
issue with Mr L1s car is the result of the issues which  are subject to the recall. Mr L2 said 
that he would provide  further evidence but I havent  seen this.
Given the mileage Mr L1 was able to drive  before  the engine failed and that the car passed 
two MOTs I do not find that without further evidence I can say the cause of the failure was 
due to a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L1 to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6308613