K821x#15complaint
Mrs H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a store-card  PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Hs store card account when  she applied for the card in store.
The PPI was sold to Mrs H by a third party but FICL  have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant  issues to take into account  are the same as those set out in the note on 
our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  and Ill explain why.
FICL needed to give Mrs H clear information about  the PPI before she agreed to take it. That 
included highlighting anything that could make  it difficult for Mrs H to make  a successful 
claim. 
Mrs H says she suffered from a pre-existing medical  condition at the point of sale  and Ive 
seen no reason to doubt what shes said. I think this is important  because  the policy  she took 
out excluded cover for any pre-existing medical conditions. And based on the type of 
condition Mrs H had I think its likely she wouldve thought this condition  is something she 
might have had to take time off for in the future and something she might  have needed  to 
claim on the policy for.
Based on what Ive seen  of the available terms and conditions from the time, Mrs H wouldnt 
have been able to claim for any condition she wouldve known about prior to the sale or 
sought medical advice for 12 months  before the start date of the cover. And as Mrs H knew  
about her condition before the policy was taken out I dont think  she would have been able to 
make a successful claim for any time off as a result of this. So I think FICL should have 
pointed out the exclusion to Mrs H and Ive not seen anything to suggest it did this. 
So I think Mrs H wouldve  seen her medical  condition as a likely reason she might want to 
make a claim under the policy. And I dont think Mrs H wouldve bought  this policy  if shed 
understood that she wouldnt  be able to claim for it. So I think shes lost out because of what 
FICL did wrong. 
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN60542562putting things right
FICL should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs H would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs H would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs H 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs H what its done to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs H that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. So Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  should pay Mrs H compensation in line with the instructions set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6054256