K821x#15complaint
Mrs R and the estate  of Mr R, have complained to us that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  that they took out to 
go with a mortgage in 1998.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out the PPI on a joint basis  so they both had the benefit of the cover. It 
looks like the PPI was arranged with NatWest in a meeting. 
NatWest made a partial offer to uphold part of the complaint. Our adjudicator upheld the 
whole complaint. NatWest  didnt  agree  so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Given what I have read and been told its unlikely  that NatWest made a recommendation to 
Mr and Mrs R about buying  PPI cover. But it still had to give them  clear  enough information 
about the PPI so they could make  an informed decision about buying  it. I dont think NatWest 
did this and so Im upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I will explain why. 
The PPI policy excluded  any accident  or sickness claims that resulted from medical 
conditions that Mr and Mrs R already had when  they bought the cover. I think  this wouldve 
mattered to Mr and Mrs R because Mr R had a serious medical condition  for which  he had 
previously undergone treatment and for which he was taking medication at the time the 
policy was sold. And from what Ive seen I dont think NatWest  made  it clear  enough  that 
because of his pre-existing medical condition its likely  that Mr R would have had difficulty  
making a successful claim on the policy. 
Ive seen that NatWest  has made an offer to compensate part of the complaint in relation to 
Mr R only. But Mr and Mrs R had taken out their mortgage together  and had made the 
decision to arrange  their finances  so that they both had the benefit of PPI cover.  And 
although this looks as if it was a non-advised sale, they both had a right to be given 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading, so they could make an informed  choice 
about what they wanted to do about mortgage protection.  NatWest, in selling the cover, also 
had a duty to point  out the main features of the cover. And this is where I think  it failed.
It follows that I dont think its fair to consider  Mr Rs complaint completely independently of 
Mrs Rs. By looking only at Mr Rs half of the joint policy and mortgage, NatWest  is failing  to 
deal with the complaint effectively or indeed, fairly.  
The simple  point is that I dont think Mr and Mrs R wouldve bought the policy together if 
NatWest had given  them enough information about it. So, I think  theyve both lost out 
because of that and both of them need  to be compensated.  
Ref: DRN69343632what I think NatWest should  do to put matters right 
National Westminster Bank Plc will need  to put Mr and Mrs R back  in the position they would 
have been in if they had taken out their mortgage  without PPI. So National Westminster  
Bank Plc should:
Work  out and pay Mrs R and the estate of Mr R the total of the premiums they paid on 
their policy;
Pay interest at 8% simple on each of the premiums from the date of payment to the date 
the compensation is paid;
Set out in writing for Mrs R and the estate of Mr R how the above was calculated.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires National Westminster Bank Plc to take off tax from this 
interest payment.  National Westminster  Bank  Plc must give Mrs R and the estate of Mr R a 
certificate showing how much tax theyve taken  off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster  Bank  Plc to 
pay Mrs R and the estate  of Mr R fair compensation in accordance with the above 
calculation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 21 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6934363