K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Peter Cox Limited  and a warranty policy arranged through them.  
background
Mr H had some work done  on a property and took a warrant policy  with Peter Cox Limited  to 
cover potential further problems. Recently the price of this cover has been increasing and 
the scope of cover has been reducing.  Mr H didnt think that was fair so complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators considered the matter,  but didnt find in Mr Hs favour. The 
adjudicator felt that Peter Cox wasnt responsible for the current  problems, and that there 
was little evidence  they made promises at the start of the policy that meant  they were  liable  
going forward. Mr H didnt  accept  this, so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think there are two main  issues here,  as touched on by the adjudicator. One,  whether the 
current pricing and scope issues are the fault of Peter Cox Limited. Two, whether Peter Cox 
Limited made any provable binding statements at the start of the policy that would make 
them liable for issues now.  
Looking at the pricing and scope issues the original  policy was sold in 2007. Soon after that 
the insurance aspect  of Peter Cox Limited moved  to another company, and after that to 
another third business. It seems to me that it is this third business,  the current underwriter of 
the policy that has introduced the price  rises  and reduced  the scope of cover. If Mr H thinks  
this is wrong he needs to complain to them. I cant look at that issue under this case, as it 
concerns Peter  Cox Limited only, and without  that third business  having had a chance to 
discuss this with Mr H. 
It may be that if Mr H does make  this complaint and isnt satisfied by the answer he gets he 
might be able to bring a complaint about  that to us against that third business.  But I cant  
consider that at this time. If he does wish to do so he would need to contact  us after he has 
discussed things  with that business.  
Turning to what Peter Cox Limited  might be liable for from the start of the policy  I dont have 
enough proof to make  any award  against  them. Although I note the statements of Mr H and 
his partner they arent enough to outweigh the documents  on file. Although the documents 
are fairly brief they do describe the contract  as annually renewable, i.e. not a lifetime  
contract, and they dont seem to contain  any promises  as to the premium or scope of cover 
going forward either. So I dont accept that Peter  Cox Limited  is in someway  bound  to have 
stopped or curtailed these  later premium and cover  changes. 
In particular as the changes  in question happened long after Peter Cox Limited ceased to be 
responsible for the policy I dont think I can hold them  responsible for these. As stated above 
Mr H may well be better off taking that issue up with the current  insurer. 
Ref: DRN62293692my final decision
I make  no award against Peter Cox Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6229369