K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains Hastings Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him a telematics motor 
insurance policy. 
background 
Hastings sold Mr P a telematics  policy in late December  2016. As part of the policy,  he had 
to have a telematics  box fitted to his car, also known as a black  box.  The box recorded data 
and scores for four driving behaviours:  time of day driven, speed, braking and acceleration. 
Based on these scores, the insurer then gave him an overall  driver  rating  out of 100. To 
keep his policy, Mr Ps driver  rating  had to stay above the minimum score of 40, otherwise  
the insurer could  cancel it. 
Mr P was in full time education and worked  in the evenings when he bought the policy.  He 
said he was never able to reach the minimum driver rating and scored  zero  for braking and 
time of day.  He said Hastings gave him conflicting information about  how to improve, and 
they promised  theyd check the box and data but then didnt. He feels  he was forced into an 
impossible situation   his policy was cancelled  and he lost out financially. 
Hastings told Mr Ps representative (Mrs P) that his low scores were caused  by him driving 
at night. Mrs P argued that the policy  terms dont say anything about not driving at night and 
Hastings website only recommends not doing  this regularly  - but the policy  doesnt  confirm 
what regular means and, if it did, Mr P wouldnt have bought the policy in the first place. 
After investigating  these issues in detail, we agreed  with Mr P that the policy had been  mis-
sold. As a result, Hastings offered to only charge Mr P for the time he had the cover and 
refund all other charges (including  the £210  telematics fee and any cancellation fees),  plus 
interest. It also offered  to remove all records of the cancellation, and to pay him a total of 
£250 compensation for the stress  and inconvenience  caused by the mis-sale, and for the 
time it took to investigate  any potential issues with the data. 
Mrs P declined the offer on Mr Ps behalf. In summary, she said she always  knew the policy  
was mis-sold; she can see Hastings are still getting  away with it, and she feels they need to 
be held accountable. She also feels they never tried to help resolve the problem in all this 
time, and it was only put right when she cancelled the insurance and changed  providers. 
She thought  a further £200  compensation would be reasonable  she said Mr P still has the 
black box in his car as a constant reminder  and it was a very stressful  and upsetting time, 
which needs to be recognised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs P feels strongly that this policy was mis-sold to her son, Mr P. Having 
considered Hastings sales processes and the way these policies work in detail, I agree. 
Driving at night for more  than 12% of the total time driven  produced a zero score for time of 
day, and this score was the heaviest  weighted factor  when calculating  the overall driver 
rating. Im satisfied the impact of night  time driving  was a significant  limitation  of the policy, 
which Hastings should have made  clear  during the sale. They recommended not driving at 
night regularly and said this would lower  the driver rating.  However, in my view, this isnt 
Ref: DRN61443032enough to clearly explain the fixed restriction in place,  or the significant  impact this would 
have on the driver rating  and therefore  Mr Ps ability to keep the policy. Im also persuaded 
Mr P wouldnt have  bought the policy if hed properly understood this, given he had a 
particular need  to drive  at night. 
Hastings disagreed with my view, but still offered to resolve Mr Ps complaint. I now have to 
decide whether  I think their offer is fair to recognise  the impact  this had on Mr P in all the 
circumstances. If Mr P had bought a more appropriate policy,  he would always have had to 
pay for the insurance  cover for the time he had it  but I find it unlikely he would have had to 
cancel a policy that was better suited to him. He also would have only paid the costs of 
setting up a policy once.  So I think Hastings offer to only charge him for the time he had the 
insurance cover is fair and to refund anything he paid them above this amount,  with 
interest. The interest will be calculated from the date of cancellation  to the date of 
settlement.
The key issue in dispute here is that Mrs P feels the compensation  for the stress  and 
inconvenience caused should be higher, and that Hastings should be held accountable. 
However, it isnt our role to fine or punish a business  for any wrongdoing  that is the role of 
the regulator (The Financial  Conduct  Authority). My role in this case is to look at the actual  
impact this has had on Mr P, and to decide whether the amount Hastings have offered is 
reasonable to reflect  that. 
Theres no doubt that receiving cancellation  warnings  early on in the policy, trying to improve  
his scores without success,  and ultimately having to cancel the policy,  would have been 
stressful and upsetting for Mr P  and the conflicting  information  he then received from 
Hastings would only have  increased this. He then had the inconvenience of having  to find 
another policy to cover  him. There were  also some issues on Hastings  part with 
investigating the data, which added to the length  of time this matter went  on for  which  
Hastings took into account when making their offer to Mr P. However, weighing  everything 
up, and having regard  to the general level of awards  we make, on balance,  I consider the 
£250 Hastings  has offered  to be reasonable compensation  to reflect  all of this in the 
circumstances. So I wont be asking Hastings to do anything  more.
I acknowledge that Mrs P has spent a lot of time on her sons complaint,  but I can only ask a 
financial business to pay compensation for the inconvenience and upset experienced by 
their customer  not by their representative.  Mrs P also feels strongly that Hastings is still 
mis-selling these policies,  but its important to note that they have since made a number of 
changes to the policies, and the weighting for night time driving  is now different. In any 
event, I can only look at the way the policy worked at the time it was sold to Mr P in this 
decision, and Im satisfied  Hastings has done  enough to put things right in this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my decision is that Hastings Insurance Services Limiteds  offer is fair 
and reasonable.  Hastings  Insurance Services Limited must:
-only charge Mr P for the time on cover (the pro-rata cost of the actual insurance cover)  
and refund anything he was charged  above this; and
-if this means a refund is due, Hastings must pay Mr P those amounts, plus simple  
interest at a rate of 8% per year from the date of cancellation to the date of payment; and
-remove the record of the cancellation  of Mr Ps policy  from any internal and external 
databases; and
-pay Mr P a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN61443033Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Joanna Brown
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6144303