K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Advantage Insurance  Company Limited (trading as Hastings Direct) 
provided poor service  to her after she made a claim on her motor insurance  policy.
background
Mrs W contacted  Advantage on 25 December 2018 after a non-fault accident.  In error, the 
claim wasnt logged, so she had to chase progress. She didnt get a replacement  car until 
7 January 2019. Advantage  asked her to contact the police and a witness to the accident. It 
didnt tell her she could claim for a damaged child seat. The policy  excess  was deducted 
from the total loss settlement. Mrs W felt she was misled about her options,  including  the 
one to add another car to the policy. And there  was a delay  in Advantage paying the claim. 
Advantage apologised for its poor service.  It said that was partly due to the claim being 
made during the festive season and to the errors of an out of hours team. It accepted  that 
Mrs W had to call it far more than normal. It paid her £75 compensation. It said the delay 
with a hire car was due to a credit  hire company. It said it had asked Mrs W to contact the 
police and a witness,  to speed  the process  up. It said the policy  wording showed there was 
child seat replacement  cover.  And although  it said the policy  excess  was payable,  it said 
Mrs W would  get it back  if the other  drivers insurer accepted liability.  It said it was standard 
practice to charge the full premium after a total loss claim if a car hadnt been  added to the 
policy. But it agreed to pay Mrs W a further  £50 for the delay in paying the settlement.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mrs Ws complaint. He thought Advantage had acted 
reasonably in relation to most of the issues Mrs W complained about. He accepted  that the 
policy allowed it to deduct the remaining premium from the settlement. But he thought it was 
applied unfairly  in this case.  Mrs W wanted the full settlement to assist her in buying a new 
car - but she also wanted the policy and the direct  debit payments for the premium to stay in 
place. He thought Advantage should offer Mrs W a further £50 (£175 compensation in total).
Mrs W accepted the investigators view.  Advantage said it was right to deduct the remaining 
premium payments from a settlement if a car wasnt added before it was paid. It didnt 
accept that Mrs W would have had difficulty in replacing the car if £248 in premium  was 
deducted, as her new car had cost £7,300. But the investigator still thought  deducting the 
premiums was unreasonable. He said it created a barrier to Mrs W adding  a car to the 
policy. He thought Advantage should have  paid the full settlement sum, but warned Mrs W 
that shed have to pay the rest of the premium  if she didnt add a car to the policy.  
As there was no agreement, I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Advantage offered Mrs W £75 compensation for the initial poor service  and poor 
communication it accepted had taken place.  I think it would have been preferable  had an 
advisor pointed  out the cover to replace child seats  - although Mrs Ws purchase  will be 
refunded, subject to a receipt. The policy makes it clear that the agreed excess is payable on 
every claim, so I think  it was fair for Mrs W to have to pay it. And in my opinion,  it wasnt 
unreasonable to ask her to take the first step in contacting the witness  and the police. I think  
the problem is that these  issues werent  explained  properly to Mrs W at the time. I think  it 
was natural for her to become confused and to think she was being treated unfairly.    
Advantage told Mrs W in January 2019  that it would pay the settlement shortly,  but only after 
deducting the policy excess and the remaining policy premiums. It also said shed then have 
Ref: DRN6980322230 days to add a car to the policy. At first, Mrs W believed that was her only option, but she 
queried it. An advisor then told her she could add a car before the settlement sum was paid 
and the direct debits  would  then remain in place. I can see why Mrs W thought this was 
another example of poor service. 
As the process of adding a car wasnt fully explained  to Mrs W at the start,  I think she was 
bound to be further upset and confused by what was going on. I think  extra confusion was 
caused after that by some of the correspondence.  It states that a deduction from the 
settlement sum was made for the remaining  premium. In fact, when we queried that with 
Advantage recently, it was able to show that only the policy  excess  was deducted. 
Advantage says that if theres no car to insure,  a policy  cant  continue. And unless a cars 
added to a policy before the settlement sum is paid, it cant  be sure that will happen 
afterwards. If not  and the remaining premium hasnt been deducted form the settlement 
sum - it would then have  to take steps  to pursue it. I think the points Advantage has made  on 
this point are valid, but it doesnt look as though they were  explained  to Mrs W properly. 
In my opinion, there could  be circumstances in which  it might  be unfair to deduct  the 
remaining premium from the settlement sum.  Sometimes that may create a barrier to a 
consumer adding a car to their policy. But it will always depend on the particular facts in 
each case. I dont think it applies here.   
As Mrs W was able to add a car before the settlement  sum was paid, the direct debits for the 
premium remained in place. But had she not done  so, her remaining premium  was only 
£248. So I dont  think Advantages intention to deduct the premium from the settlement 
created a barrier  to Mrs W adding a car to the policy. The car was of a much higher value 
than the settlement sum - let alone  the value of the remaining premium.
I think the late payment  of the settlement (and the lack of contact around that, which meant 
Mrs W had to query it) was poor service. Advantage did try to deal with it by offering Mrs W a 
further £50, so in total it offered her £125 for its poor service and delay.
Looking at the complaint as a whole,  I dont think Advantage has offered Mrs W sufficient 
compensation, and I think it would be reasonable for it to pay her a further £75. In my 
opinion, the total sum of £200  would better  reflect the distress and inconvenience she faced 
from the start. I think  much  of it could have been avoided  had advisors explained the 
process to her better,  thereby limiting  the upset and confusion  on her part.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Advantage didnt do so. Mrs W 
said it wouldnt have been her first choice  to buy a more expensive  car. She said shed have 
needed the full settlement - without  any deductions - in order to buy a similar car to her old 
one for cash.  She decided the best way forward was to buy a car on finance. Mrs W also 
said she was happy to accept the decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W accepts  that she decided  to use finance to buy a more  expensive car, and that she 
wasnt forced to do that. Had both deductions been  made, she thinks she would have been  
Ref: DRN69803223around £300 short of the sum she thinks she would have needed  to buy a car similar to her 
old one. So Mrs W has clarified her previous comments  and has explained what  her 
thoughts were at the time, whilst  accepting my provisional findings. In the absence  of any 
comment from Advantage, I dont think theres  any reason to depart  from them.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mrs W a further £75 (£200 in total) for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6980322