K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1991.  They  paid a monthly amount for 
the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint because:
Given how long ago the sale was, theres understandably limited information available.  
So theres not enough evidence  for me to conclude that Bank of Scotland didnt  make  
made Mr and Mrs S aware  that they had a choice about buying the PPI, or that they 
didnt choose  to take it. I also note that it appears  Mr and Mrs S had already had the 
mortgage for some time before buying  the PPI. So I think theyd have been aware they 
didnt need the PPI to get the mortgage.  
We dont know how Bank of Scotland sold the policy. So Ive assumed that Bank of 
Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. Based on what  I know of their 
circumstances at the time, the PPI seems  to have been right for them.  Mr and Mrs S had 
little in the way of savings. And while they had some sick and redundancy pay through 
their employment, the PPI wouldve protected this by paying 50% of their monthly  
mortgage payment  for up to a year if one of them was unable  to work. Mr and Mrs S say 
their parents wouldve paid the mortgage  for them if theyd been struggling, but this sort 
of help isnt guarantee.
Its likely  that Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. 
But even  if it had, I think Mr and Mrs S would still have bought it. 
Its possible that Bank of Scotland didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Mr and Mrs S dont  appear to have  been  affected by most of those things.  While  
Mr S had a medical condition, this may only have been excluded  for the first 12 months 
of the policy. Given  the PPI was intended  to cover a mortgage  which  was due to last well 
over a decade,  I dont  think  this wouldve put them  off buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ss comments. But these points dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
Ref: DRN60891302For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6089130