K821x#15complaint
Mr H, represented by a family member  Mr H2, complains  that Black  Horse Limited lent 
money to him through hire purchase  agreements  (HPAs) which  were  not affordable.
background
Mr H entered into a HPA to acquire  a caravan in March 2017. At end June 2017 he 
upgraded to another  caravan and entered  into a new HPA with Black  Horse. The first 
agreement dated  March 2017  was for around £20,000 with monthly repayments amounts of 
around £285. The second agreement  dated 30 June 2017  was for around £29,400 with 
monthly repayments of around £380.
Mr H2 says that Mr H is a vulnerable adult and shouldn't have been provided the finance by 
Black Horse.  He says that the income  amount and employment details recorded for Mr H 
were incorrect and although Mr H signed  the form he did not complete it. Mr H says the form 
was filled in by the sales representative  and that the representative told him a mistake had 
been made on the income amount and that this would be corrected.
Mr H2 says that Mr H's only income is benefits  and that the finance provided was not 
affordable. He says that no evidence of income was requested at the time the finance was 
provided. Mr H wants to have his agreements cancelled and to be compensated for all the 
additional costs  he has incurred as a result  of acquiring the caravans.
Black Horse  says that Mr H visited the caravan park on several  occasions  before agreeing  to 
the acquisition  of the caravan. It says an application was processed  by the holiday park on 
17 June 2017  which it accepted but the documents  were not printed until 27 June giving 
Mr H time to think  about the agreement before signing it. It says it contacted  Mr H on 
28 June to discuss the reason for the agreement and to confirm the loan would go ahead.
Black Horse  says that an income and expenditure assessment was undertaken before the 
loan was provided and that Mr H's gross income per year was recorded as £15,000  giving 
him a month income of around £1,100 and his expenses were noted as £397 living costs 
and £11 contribution towards council tax. This gave him a disposable income  of £628. It also 
notes that Mr H's application recorded  he had savings of £8,000. It says when it called Mr H 
he said that he would not be living in the caravan and it would be rented  out in the summer.  
It says at the time the agreement  was provided  it was not aware Mr H was a vulnerable  
consumer.
Our investigator thought that Black  Horse should  have  asked  for more information to support 
the income amount Mr H had provided.  Based on Mr H's actual income,  she did not think  
Black Horse  should have  provided the loans  in March or June 2017. Because of this she 
recommended that Mr H's agreement was cancelled and his repayments refunded  from 
24 March 2017  onwards  along with any deposits  paid.
Black Horse  did not accept our investigator's  view.  It said that it had not been provided  with 
Mr H's bank statements  and that the evidence that had been provided  did not confirm all 
benefit payments  Mr H was potentially receiving at the time of the loan. It said that Mr H 
signed the agreement confirming his income  as £1,040  and that he had £8,000 of savings (it 
said the savings  information was not part of its decision to lend). Black Horse said that Mr H 
was correctly recorded as being  disabled and in receipt of benefits  and that it carried  out a 
credit search before lending to him which did not raise concerns.
Ref: DRN65281002Black Horse  said Mr H maintained his repayments for more  than a six month period, 
suggesting the loan was affordable when provided,  and said it was possible Mr H had had a 
change of circumstances.
Black Horse  offered to accept the return of the caravan  and not actively  pursue Mr H for the 
outstanding liability  of around  £12,000. But it said this would show as a default on Mr H's 
credit file.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr H entered into the original HPA in March 2017. I did not see the application details 
for this HPA but it appeared  that Mr H then upgraded his caravan and as part of this 
his original HPA was settled and he entered  into a new HPA for a higher amount;
the application form for the second  HPA showed  Mr H's income as consisting  of 
benefits with an amount  of £1,040 is recorded;
on balance, I found it more likely than not that Mr H gave his weekly  income as £104 
and this was incorrectly recorded  as £1,040 per month  and Mr H thought this would 
be corrected. Mr Hs bank statements showed he was receiving £208.50 every two 
weeks which supported  Mr Hs comments;
the income Mr H has shown he receives,  and the expenditure figures Black Horse  
gathered (£397  living costs and £11 council tax contribution), suggested the HPAs 
were not affordable;
Black  Horse said that at the time Mr H entered into the HPAs it was not aware he 
was a vulnerable  consumer,  
medical evidence  provided explained that Mr H has a history  of severe mental illness 
and learning difficulties and that his condition was likely to have an impact on his 
ability to make decisions. Further comment was made that Mr H would need to be 
accompanied if entering into legal agreements.  Mr H2 also said that it would be 
evident when  meeting  Mr H that he was a vulnerable  adult;
Mr H signed the document. But as I accepted he gave the correct information and 
thought the incorrect income  figure  would  be corrected.  And taking into account his 
medical conditions/vulnerability,  which I believed ought  to have been apparent to at 
least some  extent  to the sales representative, I did not find that Mr H was responsible  
for the incorrect information  being provided, and an affordability assessment then 
being based on that;
Black  Horse relied on the information it was provided with in regard to Mr H's income, 
but I as I found  Mr H's situation  was misrepresented by the agent I thought  Mr H 
should be put back in the position  he would have  been  in had this not happened;
aside from the incorrect income information, I looked at the checks  Black Horse  
carried out. The screenshot  provided  for the second  HPA, appeared to include 
information taken  from the credit  reference  agencies, and recorded the income  as 
Ref: DRN65281003£1,123 per month. It then has non revolving credit  as £98 and living expenses as 
£397 - giving a disposable  income of £628.  However, the information then records 
the total balance and a monthly due amount  of £284. Based  on this I think  it might 
have been reasonable  that Black  Horse would have been concerned  about the 
affordability of the second HPA in any event.
On balance, I found that the HPAs should not have  been provided to Mr H. Had accurate 
information been gathered it would have been clear these HPAs  were not affordable  and I 
also noted that although Black Horse had not been made aware  of Mr Hs vulnerability  I 
thought the sales representative  should have been aware of this to some extent. Because of 
this I upheld this complaint.
I said that Mr Hs outstanding HPA should  be cancelled  with no further liability  and any 
adverse information  relating to either HPA should be removed from his credit file. I also said 
that he should also be refunded the deposit payments he made  under  both HPAs.
Mr H had made some payments towards  the caravan and incurred other costs such as site 
fees. I thought  it reasonable  that as the HPAs should not have  been  provided that these 
were also refunded (subject to invoices). 
Based on the information provided, it appeared Mr H may have  had some  use of the 
caravans, or at least  the caravans were available  for him to use. So while  I accepted the 
refunds of payments and associated expenses  should be made, I thought  it reasonable that 
this was only a partial  refund of 90% to reflect the use Mr H did have, or could have had.
Black Horse  did not agree with my provisional  decision. However  it said it would accept the 
return of the caravan and refund the deposits  paid. It said that the holiday  park would then 
be responsible  for looking at the site fees and maintenance  costs.  It also said that it would  
refund all payments  made since the complaint was raised as it was aware that Mr H had not 
used the caravan since January 2018.
It did not accept that a 90% refund of all payment made since  March 2017 should  be made 
and said that Mr H had full access to the caravan up to and including  the time his complaint 
was being reviewed.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
My role is to consider each case on its individual merits. I consider relevant regulations but 
my decision  is based  on what I consider fair given the unique circumstances of the 
complaint.
As set out in my provisional  decision, I think a mistake has been made on Mr Hs application 
form and that this was not corrected as expected before it was sent to Black Horse. If 
accurate income  information had been recorded  I think that Black Horse would have realised 
the HPA was not affordable. I also think that the sales representative should have had 
concerns that Mr H was a vulnerable adult.
Ref: DRN65281004Because of this I think Mr H should  be put back in the position  he would have been had the 
HPAs not been entered into. 
Black Horse  has accepted  that Mr H can return the caravan and his HPA will be cancelled 
with no further  liability.  It has said that the holiday park will be responsible for the associated 
costs refund.  However as the associated costs were incurred as a result of the HPAs  (which 
I find should not have been  provided) I find it reasonable that Black Horse  refunds the costs.
I recommended that 90% of payments be refunded from March 2017. Black  Horse said that 
Mr H had access to the caravan at this time and asked for further reasons for this refund. It 
did offer to refund all payments  made  from when the complaint was raised  as Mr H had not 
used the caravan since January 2018.
I contacted Mr H2 again  in regard  to the use Mr H had of the caravan up to January 2018.  
He explained  that Mr H did not remember using  the caravan for whole weeks but did 
remember going there on a few occasions for one night at a time. I understand Mr H did 
have access to the caravan and that I dont have dates showing when he stayed there. 
However based on the information I have it appears  that he made minimal use of the 
caravan. 
Given the issues raised in this complaint  I find it fair that Mr H is refunded the majority of his 
payments with a reduction made  for the limited use he had. Black Horse  has said no use 
was made  from January  2018 and so I agree with its offer to refund all payments from that 
date. It appears minimum use was made before this date and so I find a 90% refund is 
reasonable for this period.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve this complaint, Black  Horse 
Limited should:
1.cancel Mr H's current HPA agreement, with nothing further to pay;
2.take the caravan back,  at no cost to Mr H;
3.refund  90% of all payments made by Mr H from 24 March 2017 up to January 2018 
and 100% of payments form January 2018;
4.refund  any deposits paid;
5.remove any adverse information  from Mr H's credit  file.
Items 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Mr H should also receive a refund of 90% (to January 2018) and 100% (from January 2018 
onwards) of all associated  costs  he has incurred as a result of the borrowing being  agreed - 
including maintenance charges - subject  to invoices being provided. This refund is also 
subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6528100