K821x#15Complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly  started litigation proceedings against him 
when his contractual repayments didnt reach his mortgage account.
Background
Mr K had a mortgage with Santander  which was paid monthly by direct  debit. In 
November 2018,  Mr K changed the bank account  hed been making payments  from. But in 
error, he included  the wrong mortgage account number. This meant the payments from 
November 2018  to February 2019  werent received  by Santander  as expected,  and when 
they couldnt be credited to a mortgage  account, the payments were returned to the bank 
account theyd  been received from the following  day. In February 2019, after Mr K had 
missed four payments, Santander  started  litigation proceedings  against  him.
Mr K complained to Santander as he felt it was unfair theyd started  proceedings against  
him. He was also unhappy that hed incurred additional costs and his credit  file had been 
impacted, even though hed been making  the payments. 
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint. They said as they hadnt received more  than three  
months payments,  it was their normal process  to start proceedings. Mr K didnt agree so he 
asked this service to look into his complaint. Santander then agreed to put the litigation 
proceedings on hold. Mr K then cleared the outstanding arrears amount.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Santander  had acted 
too quickly in starting  litigation  proceedings. He said that Mr K had tried to make  his 
mortgage payments,  albeit with the wrong account  number, and he didnt  think  Santander 
had done enough to resolve the situation before starting litigation proceedings. So, he felt 
Santander should refund  Mr Ks litigation costs, including any interest, and pay Mr K £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
Mr K didnt agree. He wanted to confirm  that the litigation proceedings had taken  place, but 
the judge had dismissed  the case due to poor administration  from Santander. And he also 
felt the £200 wasnt enough  compensation for the distress and expense hed been caused.  
So, he asked for an ombudsman to look in-to his complaint. 
Santander also didnt  agree. They said theyd  written  to Mr K four times to let him know  that 
they hadnt received his mortgage  payments.  So, they felt that it was unlikely  Mr K hadnt  
noticed the four payments  had been returned to his account or contacted his bank to see if 
there was an issue when theyd been made.   
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
I need to consider whether I think it was fair and reasonable  for Santander to start litigation 
proceedings against Mr K when they did. And in the circumstances, I dont think  it was.  
Ref: DRN61131642Ive seen evidence  that Santander tried to contact  Mr K on numerous occasions  by letter, 
text message and by sending someone  personally  to his home. However, they couldnt  
contact him over the four-month  period.  I acknowledge  they said they had no alternative but 
to take further  action  once the account  was four months in arrears  and in this case  it meant 
starting litigation proceedings.  However,  Ive seen  Mr Ks bank statements which show he 
did try and make the required  mortgage  payments, albeit  with the incorrect  account number, 
so Im not persuaded he intended not to make  the contractual payments as expected.   
The Mortgage Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (MCOB) says that businesses should  both 
make  reasonable  efforts to reach  an agreement with a customer  over a method of repaying 
any payment shortfall and not repossess the property  unless all other  reasonable attempts 
to resolve the position have failed. But Ive looked at the attempts that Santander made  to 
contact Mr K and I dont think they did enough. I say that because I havent  seen any 
evidence of phone calls being made  to Mr K during the four-month period, and Santanders 
record from 10 January 2019,  says that there has been no phone  contact with him in the last 
60 days. And although Santander said theyd made several visits to Mr Ks property, Ive 
only seen records of one visit on 20 February 2019. Santander also told us that Mr K has an 
online banking facility,  but they havent  shown any evidence they tried to contact him 
electronically. So, based on what Ive seen, I think Santander could  have done  more to 
contact Mr K before starting litigation proceedings. 
I recognise Mr K is unhappy that Santander  couldnt  locate the mortgage payments  hed 
made, and he feels theyve acted unfairly by charging him interest and fees relating to the 
mortgage payments.  However, I dont think Santander is completely at fault for the situation  
Mr K has found himself in. I acknowledge  Mr K says he made his monthly payments and 
didnt realise there was an issue, but Im not persuaded thats the case. Even if Mr K didnt 
receive the text messages or letters from Santander,  I think  he ought  to have reasonably 
been aware the payments  were  being  returned  to his account  each month.  
I understand Mr K is self-employed and therefore  it may not have been easy for him to 
identify these specific payments which had credited his account, especially  as they werent  
received from Santander. However,  each of the payments was in excess of £1,000 and the 
December 2018  credit cleared Mr Ks overdraft. So, I think  he ought to reasonably have 
been aware after receiving several of these payments,  that he was getting more  money  into 
his bank account than expected. And to question what they were for - particularly as they 
were the exact  amounts hed paid for his mortgage  direct debit - so its likely they would 
have been relatively easy  to reconcile.  
Its Mr Ks responsibility to ensure he makes his contractual mortgage payments when they 
are due  which  he didnt do. Im satisfied that the letters sent by Santander went to the 
correct registered  address  for Mr K, and that he would have been aware there  was an issue 
with his mortgage account  even if he believed it was a mistake  by Santander. But he didnt 
take any action  to resolve this. So, I think Mr K should remain  responsible for the late 
payments and associated interest, and his credit  file will remain unchanged  to reflect this.   
I agree  that Mr K was caused a great  deal of distress as a result of the litigation proceedings 
on his family  home, and Ive noted  that Mr K says he couldnt work for several weeks  in 
preparation for this. Our investigator  recommended  that Santander should pay Mr K £200  for 
the trouble and upset caused, and in addition cover the litigation costs including interest due 
from the fees. So, considering the circumstances of how the payments were missed,  
Santanders attempts  to contact Mr K, and their resulting litigation action, I think  the 
compensation proposed by the investigator is reasonable.
Ref: DRN61131643My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint. I instruct  Santander UK Plc to:
Refund the litigation costs incurred by Mr K, including any added  interest as a result  
of these costs;
Pay Mr K £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6113164