K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plcs charges  for converting foreign currency arent clear 
enough.
background 
Mr H makes regular  payments from an overseas account to his TSB account. He doesnt  
consider TSB clearly explains its charges for converting the currency,  and says these are 
hidden within its exchange  rate. Mr H says exchange rate information isnt readily available 
when making the transfers, so he cant easily check whether its competitive.
TSB didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint, and told him exchange rate information is available  
during the transaction  and also on its website.
Following the involvement of this service, the bank found that it shouldve  told Mr H that the 
exchange rate for non-sterling payments received from overseas isnt set until the payment 
reaches TSB. It shouldve  also told him that indicative exchange  rates are available by 
calling TSB or at its branches.
TSB noticed that Mr H had been charged four £7 fees in error,  and refunded them.
Our investigator concluded TSBs  exchange rate was a commercial  matter for the business. 
He didnt consider  the bank was obliged to disclose a breakdown of how it established that 
rate. TSB showed the rate it had used when it confirmed the transaction details, which  the 
investigator thought  was reasonable. He was also satisfied TSB processed the overseas  
payments in line with the accounts  terms and conditions.
The investigator accepted TSB had given Mr H incorrect  information about where to find 
details of its exchange rate. It had also charged fees in error, which had been refunded. 
In light of these  mistakes,  the investigator  recommended TSB should  pay £150 to Mr H.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that he still didnt think  TSBs charges were clear 
enough. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
TSB said that it accepted the investigators conclusions, and was willing  to pay £150 to Mr H.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has referred  to other overseas payments he makes to a different bank. He says this 
bank shows its margin in addition to the exchange  rate, so Mr H can understand how the 
charges are made up. 
TSB confirms the exchange rate its used, but it doesnt show any margin  within that rate.
I can understand why Mr H might consider TSBs information doesnt  allow  him to easily  
compare charges. But I agree with the investigator that TSB isnt obliged  to provide a 
breakdown of how its exchange  rate is established.
Ref: DRN61249102The terms and conditions  of the account say:
Well convert the currency into pounds  using our standard  exchange rate on the day we 
make the conversion.  You can find out our exchange rates  by calling us or asking in branch.
I appreciate it may not be convenient for Mr H to call TSB ahead  of every regular payment 
he makes.  But I consider  the phone facility  provided  by TSB is reasonable, and that it allows  
customers the check the likely exchange  rate before proceeding with their transactions.  
TSB gave  Mr H incorrect information about  how to check the exchange rate, and also 
charged fees in error. I agree that £150  is reasonable compensation in light of the mistakes 
that were made.
Im not persuaded that TSB needs  to do anything else.
my final decision
My decision  is that TSB Bank plc should pay £150 to Mr H, in addition  to the fees it has 
refunded.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6124910