K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy taken out in 
2000. Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc, (BOS), mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.  Where the available information is 
unclear or inconsistent  I have to decide what, on balance, I think  is most  likely to have 
happened.
Because the sale was so long ago BOS no longer has a copy of the actual policy  that 
applied to Mr J, so Ive based my decision  on the available policy  that was in use nearest  to 
the date of the sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr J says that he hadnt been aware  that PPI had been  added to his account. But I think  
that Mr J chose to take it out and that BOS had made it clear that he didnt have to  
although I can understand why Mr J cant  remember this. I say this because  Ive seen 
Mr Js signed credit card application  form. This has a section in it headed  Cover  Your 
Card Payments. This gives  a brief description  of the cover.  There are also two equally 
sized boxes - one to tick to say Yes  and the other No and instructions to sign at the 
bottom of the section  if cover  is wanted.  I can see that the Yes box has been ticked and 
that Mr J has also signed the section;
BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr J got the information  he needed so that he could 
decide if it was right for him; 
The section in the credit card application form to which Ive referred above, explains that 
the PPI covered accident, illness and unemployment. And that payments of 10% of the 
insured balance would be made for up to 12 months. Its possible the other  information  
BOS gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But he chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  Based on what  Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time its likely that Mr J was eligible for the policy.  Its also 
unlikely that he would  have been affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover  such as those affecting  someone who was self-employed.  And any payments  
made following  a successful claim would have likely been in addition to any employment 
benefits or savings  Mr J was entitled  to or had. So I think  that the policy  could have been 
useful for him if he had been unable to work.  It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
Ref: DRN68344332Ive thought about everything Mr J has told us - including what he has said about the 
possibility of BOS  having  advised him that he would have a better  chance  of getting the 
credit card if he took the PPI. And that the credit card application form could  have been  
signed by someone  else.  On balance, from the format of his credit card application  form, I 
find that it is reasonable to conclude that the sale took place by post. And, without more  
persuasive evidence,  I dont consider that I can reasonably  and fairly  find that Mr J had any 
contact or correspondence  with BOS where it might  have told him that taking the policy 
would have improved  his chance  of being giving the credit card.  And Im satisfied that the 
signatures in the section  dealing with PPI and that on the form as a whole were made by the 
same person. And Ive seen nothing from which to conclude that this was other  than by Mr J. 
So these and Mr Js other points dont change my decision.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because BOS didnt tell Mr J, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6834433