K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited (AXA)  has refused to cover  100% of 
his costs in a claim he made on his medical  insurance policy.
background
Mr M took out a medical insurance policy  underwritten by AXA,  in 2016.  In February 2019 
Mr M contacted AXA to make a claim as he was due to go into hospital for a minor 
procedure. By the time Mr M contacted AXA he had already arranged for a specific 
consultant within his preferred hospital to perform the surgery.
The person  Mr M spoke to explained that there were some limitations on his policy  regarding  
what would  and wouldnt be covered. He confirmed  that the hospital Mr M wanted  to go to 
was covered in full by the policy but that he would  need the name  of both the consultant and 
anaesthetist in order to confirm whether or not they were also on the recognised list as 
being fully authorised by the business.  He explained if they werent  Mr M may be liable for 
some costs. 
The following  day Mr M called AXA again.  By this time the hospital had also been  in touch 
with the underwriter and the person Mr M spoke to was able to confirm what would and 
wouldnt be covered  by the policy.  
They explained that the cost of the procedure,  the hospital stay, and the anaesthetist  would 
all be covered by the policy.  However, the person Mr M spoke to also clarified that the 
consultant performing the procedure wasnt fully covered under the policy. They said that 
AXA would pay 60% of the consultants  fees but Mr M would be liable for the remaining 40%. 
Mr M has said this was never explained  to him when  he purchased  the policy and he had 
assumed his medical bills would be paid in full by his medical insurance. He thinks AXA 
should publish a list of all the consultants that are fully covered by its policies and has 
queried why it is necessary to get preauthorisation for procedures  in the first place.  He has 
said he feels he has been treated unfairly  AXA and has asked  for the fees he paid to be 
refunded as well as compensation for the upset this has caused him. 
AXA has said that it didnt  sell the policy to Mr M directly and so it cant be held responsible 
for what was said to him at that time.  However, it has said that it sent Mr M membership 
guides in 2016  when he purchased the policy and each year on renewal. It has explained 
that the information regarding what would and wouldnt be covered was included  in these 
guides and so it doesnt feel it has misled  Mr M in anyway. It has also confirmed that the 
claim Mr M made earlier  this year was successful and that AXA did cover  in excess of 
£9,000 of fees on Mr Ms behalf.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ms complaint already. They found that AXA had 
behaved fairly and reasonably and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with their 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider.  
Ref: DRN68245542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint and Id like to explain why.
Mr M took out policy via a broker.  He has told us that the broker didnt explain all the relevant 
parts of the policy to him at the point  of sale, which is why he was unaware  that he may be 
liable for some costs  in relation  to some claims. As the broker  is independent  from AXA, I 
cant consider that element of Mr Ms complaint  within this decision. 
In regard to Mr Ms claim, having read through the policys terms and conditions I note under 
the What isnt covered? section it states:
As with any health  insurance, (your policy) doesnt  cover everything. The main things we 
dont cover are:
Full cost of treatment  in hospitals  and by specialists  that arent on our list. 
And under the section entitled  If you need  treatment  how to claim it states:
Can I use a different hospital?
Wed always recommend that you use a (policy)  Specialist  at one of the hospitals on our 
Hospital List. Well tell you about  the choices near you when you call us. This means you 
can go ahead with your treatment knowing that the fees are covered, so long as the 
treatment is covered by your policy.
If you choose to use any other hospital or specialist,  well only contribute  part of the cost. 
Youll then need  to pay the remaining amount yourself. This could be a significant  amount of 
money. In some  cases, we may not cover the fees at all. 
These clearly explain that there are limitations  on the policy  and highlight  the importance  of 
contacting the underwriter  prior to agreeing  to any procedure.  So, Im satisfied that AXA 
considered Mr Ms claim within the terms and conditions  set out within  the policy  and that it 
didnt do anything wrong when it refused to cover  the full cost of the claim itself.
Mr M has said that he was told some people were  able to claim for the full amount under 
their AXA policies. This may well be the case if they had different policies with different terms 
that were also underwritten by AXA as not all its policies are the same. However,  based  on 
the terms and conditions of the policy Mr M purchased in 2016, his claim has been 
processed correctly. And so, I wont be asking AXA to cover  any more  costs in relation  to it. 
In regard to the other issues raised  by Mr M, there  is no obligation on the part of 
underwriters to publish a list of consultants and whether or not it will cover  their fees. I can 
understand why Mr M thinks  this would be useful, but as there is no obligation to publish 
one, I cant say AXA has failed in not publishing  one, and so I cant uphold  on this point  
either. 
Mr M has also said he feels its unfair to ask sick people to contact underwriters to get 
preapproval for procedures. I sympathise with Mr M on this point as it can be very difficult to 
collect information and make calls when one is poorly. 
Ref: DRN68245543However, the vast majority of medical insurance  policies require customers  to request 
approval for procedures before they can make a claim. This is because  not all procedures 
will be covered and not all consultants  work with all insurance companies. And as a result, 
there will be limits opposed on all policies.  By contacting insurance companies in advance 
customers can know exactly what will and wont  be covered  and what  their options for 
treatment under their policies will be. So, I dont think  it was unreasonable  for AXA to require 
Mr M to contact  it prior to arranging his treatment. And I wont  be upholding  his complaint on 
this point either. 
Finally, Mr M has said that the fees of one of the anaesthetists whom he dealt with was 
covered in full but the other wasnt. As was explained to Mr M in the phone calls he made to 
AXA prior to his procedure, some  consultants  and anaesthetists are covered under his 
policy, but some arent. As soon as he found  out a different anaesthetist  would support his 
surgery the onus  was on him to contact AXA and confirm what  the level of cover, if any, 
would be available. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6824554