K821x#15Complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Provident Personal  Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) is 
chasing her for repayments on two loans she says she didnt take out.
Background
Mrs L is unhappy that Satsuma is seeking  repayment of two loans for £870 and £400, which 
were taken out in her name. The loan applications  were made online and Satsuma  paid the 
money directly into her bank account. Mrs L transferred the money to her daughter as soon 
as she received it. She said her daughter told her that her boyfriend had taken out the loans 
but, because of technical problems with his account,  they asked for the loans to be paid into 
her account.
Satsuma started chasing her for missed  repayments. She contacted  it immediately saying 
the loans werent  hers.  Thats when she discovered theyd been taken out in her name.
She asked  Satsuma to cancel the loan agreements and to remove all entries  on her credit  
file relating to the loans. In the meantime, and at Satsumas  suggestion,  she reported her 
daughter and boyfriend to the police.
Satsuma refused to cancel the loan agreements and decided  to hold her liable for the loans. 
It said the loan applications were completed  to a high level.  Her name, address, date of birth 
and bank details  were provided. And she knew about the loans because the money was paid 
into her account. However, it acknowledged the email address and phone  number  were  not 
hers. 
As Mrs L didnt agree  with Satsumas decision,  she asked this service  to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided to uphold it because:
the email address  and mobile phone  number on the application were not hers 
Mrs L transferred all or some  of the money  to her daughter immediately she received 
it and didnt spend it
although she retained a small amount, she said it was because  her daughter owed 
her money.
The investigator concluded that Mrs L hadnt  applied for the loans and that Satsuma couldnt  
hold her responsible  for them if she hadnt  entered into a credit agreement with it. She 
recommended that Satsuma cancel the loan agreements, refund the repayments made and 
remove any negative entries on Mrs Ls credit file.
Satsuma hasnt responded to the investigators view so this case has come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
At first glance, it looks as if Mrs L applied for these loans. The application has her personal 
details. And she certainly knew  about  them because they are shown very clearly on her bank 
statements. Shes also admitted she knew about  them. So its equally possible she applied  
Ref: DRN63825572for the loans  to help her daughter out. However,  after carefully considering  the evidence, I 
dont think it was Mrs L, who applied  for the loans. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the application for the loans. The email address and telephone numbers dont 
match the details  we hold on file for Mrs L. I accept a person might have more than one 
number or email address but I dont think thats  the situation here. Mrs L said the number 
used was her daughters  work number. Also, Satsumas notes suggest an alternative  
number was provided, which was registered  to two third parties  and not to Mrs L. There was 
also a low match of the main number  with one of the third parties.
Mrs Ls bank statements show that, as soon as she received  the loan advances, she 
transferred them to her daughters account. This is consistent with what shes told us about 
technical problems with the boyfriends  bank  account, although I find this a rather  weak 
explanation. I suspect the truth is neither he nor the daughter could  get a loan.  
Mrs L also reported her daughter to the police  but for obvious reasons she didnt want to 
press charges. I see from Satsumas records that it spoke to the investigating officer  and he 
confirmed hed spoken to the daughter  but decided to take no further  action. I dont think  
Mrs L wouldve reported her daughter to the police  if it were  she, who had taken out the 
loans.
Ive looked at the affordability checks,  which Satsuma carried  out. The monthly income  on 
the application is £5,000  per month. The disposable  monthly income is £4,250. Mrs L 
passed the credit checks. I can see why Satsuma assessed the loans as affordable.  But this 
information begs  the question why someone with this level of disposable  income and a good  
credit score would take out a high cost payday loan. I dont think  they would. They  wouldnt 
need a loan. And these figures are not consistent with the money going into her current 
account. This leads  me to conclude that someone else completed the application.
Based on the evidence,  I dont consider Mrs L applied for the loans. Therefore, it isnt fair for 
Satsuma to ask her to repay them. I will now be instructing  Satsuma to put things right.  
Mrs L did keep £258 from the first loan advance so I think its fair she should repay this 
amount, less £50 for the trouble and upset caused  by bringing the complaint to this service.
Ref: DRN63825573My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.  Im asking Provident Personal  Credit 
Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) to
stop pursuing Mrs L for the loans which she didnt apply for
make  sure the debt recovery agent they passed these debts to stops taking any 
action against  Mrs L 
repay any money over and above  £208  that Mrs L has paid to Provident Personal  
Credit Limited
add 8% simple interest  to those amounts from the date Mrs L paid them until the date 
of settlement; and
remove any data about these loans from Mrs Ls credit record.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6382557