K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited sold the salvage of his 
car without  his permission. Miss D, Mr Ms mother is representing him in his complaint. Shes 
also complained  that Advantage hasnt  reimbursed Mr M for the costs of items left in the car 
before it was salvaged.
All references to the underwriter Advantage include its agents.
background
Mr M bought  a car insurance policy with Advantage.  In January 2019 he was found  guilty of 
driving while under the influence of alcohol and causing serious injury. He received  a prison 
sentence. 
Mr Ms policy said Advantage wouldnt cover a claim if the incident happened while he was 
drink driving. This means that Advantage is still liable  to meet  the costs  from a third party 
under the Road Traffic Act. But its entitled  to seek recovery of those costs   and the 
recovery and storage costs it paid - from Mr M. 
An engineer  declared Mr Ms car a total loss and it was recorded as a Category B. This 
meant the car couldnt  be returned  to the road  and could only be released to someone with 
a breakers licence.  
Miss D said Mr M had asked Advantage several times where his car was between June 
2018  when his car was recovered   and January 2019. In January 2019 Advantage 
incorrectly told him he could collect his car from a salvage agent.  But Advantage had 
received a salvage value  of £347.50 for Mr Ms car in July 2018.  It used  this amount to offset 
against the £650 costs  it said Mr M owed for storage and recovery.  
Miss D complained to Advantage. She said it shouldnt have disposed  of Mr Ms car. She 
said shed been  quoted  a higher salvage fee of around £2,000. Miss D said she was 
responsible for repaying the finance for the car as she was a guarantor.  Miss D also 
complained that her son had items  in the car that hadnt been returned. 
Advantage said it shouldnt have released Mr Ms car for salvage without first discussing it 
with Miss D or Mr M. It asked Miss D to provide proof she was the guarantor  of the finance 
and therefore  liable  for the finance of the car so that it could reconsider  this issue.
Advantage agreed Mr M wouldnt need to continue  to pay the balance  of the yearly premium  
under the policy.  
It asked Miss D to provide  receipts for the items  left in the car for it to consider.
Miss D provided Advantage with a finance settlement letter. But Advantage said it didnt 
show she was the guarantor for the finance   and when it spoke to the finance company 
(with permission) the finance company didnt tell it who had settled the finance.
Miss D asked us to look at her complaint. She said Advantages decision to sell her sons car 
without permission - and for a price he didnt agree - has left her in significant  financial 
hardship. She said she hadnt yet been able to find receipts for the items Mr M said were  left 
in the car. 
Ref: DRN66713492Our investigator thought that Advantage  should look again at the salvage complaint if Miss D 
can provide any proof of what  she would have received if shed been able to dispose  of the 
car herself.
He thought Advantage had reasonably asked for receipts for the items Miss D said Mr M had 
left in the car  and that it would consider the claim once Miss D had provided them. 
Miss D said she will search for the receipts  and will look for quotes from salvage agents. 
But she said this will be difficult due to not having the vehicle to sell.
Miss D believes  Advantage should pay some compensation for the fact it sold Mr Ms car 
without permission and took away the option for her to get a better salvage price. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Advantage should have given Miss D and Mr M the option  to collect the car to arrange 
salvage. But I also understand  that  because the car was a Category  B the damage  to it 
was extensive.  And if Mr M and Miss D made their own arrangements,  they would have had 
to pay for the collection of the car by a salvage agent and then the disposal of it. 
I understand it may be difficult for Miss D to obtain quotes without sight of the car. But the 
figure of £2,000 she quoted was one the same  basis - as Mr M hadnt  seen  his car since the 
incident. If Miss D can obtain suitable quotes,  I think Advantage should consider these. If 
Miss D is unhappy with the way Advantage considers any new evidence  she submits,  she 
can make  a new complaint. 
Advantage said it will consider a claim for the items  Miss D said her son left in the car, 
subject to receipts. Miss D hasnt  provided any receipts yet, so I cant criticise Advantage for 
not yet settling a claim for the items.
I understand it has been a very upsetting and worrying time for Miss D. Ive considered  
whether Advantage  in its role as the underwriter  has acted fairly. I think  it should have 
given Mr M and Miss D the option to arrange  salvage. But based  on the information 
available, I cant say that this failing has contributed to the financial  hardship Miss D 
experienced following Mr Ms conviction.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN66713493Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D on behalf  
of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6671349