K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that the time Scottish Widows Limited took to transfer his pension benefits  to 
a new provider was unreasonable.  
background
Mr K held pension benefits  with Scottish  Widows. Those benefits were as the result  of the 
transfer of benefits  from a former  occupational pension scheme. I can see that as part of his 
explanation of the background to his complaint Mr K has raised other concerns about the 
initial information he was given when transferring his benefits to Scottish  Widows.  But as 
those concerns didnt  form part of his complaint to Scottish Widows,  and so Scottish Widows 
hasnt had an opportunity to investigate them, it isnt appropriate  for them  to be considered 
within this decision.  But, of course, Mr K is free to raise an additional complaint to 
Scottish Widows  about those matters if he feels it appropriate.
In August  2018  Mr K decided to transfer his pension benefits from Scottish Widows to a new 
provider that I will call F. F contacted Scottish  Widows  on 21 August via an automated 
system to request the transfer of Mr Ks pension. That request was rejected by 
Scottish Widows  as Mr Ks pension had some  protected benefits and so it wasnt  able to 
deal with those  through  the automated system.
F called Scottish Widows on 29 August to progress the transfer.  By that time 
Scottish Widows  had already begun  preparing the information it needed  to send to Mr K for 
him to authorise the transfer. That information was sent to him on 1 September, although 
Mr K says it wasnt  received until 6 September.
The following  day Mr K called Scottish  Widows for advice on where the completed 
paperwork should be sent. In error, Scottish Widows asked for the paperwork to be returned 
to it directly. But Mr K should  have  been  advised  to first send the paperwork to F, so that its 
section of the paperwork could also be completed. Fortunately, as well as following 
Scottish Widows  instructions, Mr K decided to send a copy of the paperwork to F anyway.
On 10 September,  Scottish Widows realised its error in not asking Mr K to send the 
paperwork to F. But it says it was unable to send those forms to F itself without  Mr Ks 
express permission. So it returned the paperwork to Mr F and asked him to send it onto F.
F returned  the paperwork Mr K had originally sent to it to Scottish Widows and this was 
received on 12 September. The following day Scottish Widows  disinvested Mr Ks pension 
benefits and sent them to F so completing the transfer of his pension.
When Mr K complained to Scottish Widows about  the time the transfer had taken it agreed 
that the information it had given him on 7 September had been incorrect.  But it pointed  out 
that error  hadnt  actually caused  a delay to Mr Ks transfer as hed fortunately sent a copy of 
the paperwork onto F at the time. So Scottish Widows didnt think  Mr Ks complaint should  
be upheld, but sent him a cheque for £75 by way of apology for the incorrect information  
hed been given.
Mr K didnt accept Scottish  Widows response  so he brought his complaint to this service.  
His complaint has been  assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think  the time 
Scottish Widows  had taken to complete the transfer  had been  unreasonable, or out of line 
with what wed normally expect, so she didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Ref: DRN68944732Mr K didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
I have noted that when  Mr K was advised, around  six weeks  ago, that his complaint was 
being passed to an ombudsman he asked  for a two month delay in order to provide some 
further comments on our investigators  findings.  Although she explained  to Mr K that we 
wouldnt normally wait that long for a response, I cant see that Mr K has sent us anything to 
date.
I have considered carefully whether  it is reasonable to proceed with this decision without 
receiving anything further from Mr K. I have  concluded that I should proceed  to decide this 
complaint on the basis that there  is little, if any, disagreement between  Scottish  Widows and 
Mr K around the timeline of his transfer. It seems to me that I simply  need  to decide whether, 
on the basis of the agreed timeline, that transfer  progressed in a reasonable period  of time. 
I cant see there is anything further that I need from Mr K, or Scottish  Widows,  to allow me to 
reach that decision.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
It is possible for some transfers  to proceed using an automated system. That means  that 
there is no need for consumers to complete and send in paper forms to authorise the 
transfer. But each  pension provider is free to choose  either  whether to use the automated 
system at all, or whether  to only use it for certain  types of transfer.  Mr Ks pension had an 
attached guaranteed benefit relating  to the amount of tax free cash that hed be able to take 
at retirement. That benefit would be lost if the pension was transferred to another provider. 
So I think it was entirely reasonable for Scottish Widows to have been  a little more  careful  to 
ensure that Mr K understood the implications  of the transfer and was happy  for it to proceed.
It seems  to me that, even before F responded to the rejection of its automated  request, 
Scottish Widows  had begun to produce  the information it needed to send by post to Mr K. So 
when that paperwork  was issued just a couple of days later that was well within what I would 
consider to be a reasonable  timescale. It seems that Scottish Widows sent these forms to 
Mr K using second class  post so they took five days to arrive.  But I dont think that is 
unreasonable either.
Ref: DRN68944733Scottish Widows  did give some  incorrect information to Mr K when he called  in early 
September. But I dont  think  Mr K lost out as a result of that incorrect information since he 
fortunately sent a copy of his transfer  paperwork to F, as Scottish Widows should have told 
him to. So F was able to complete its section of the paperwork  and send  it onto 
Scottish Widows  just a few days later. 
Mr K thinks  that the transfer should have  happened much sooner. Scottish Widows has 
provided details  of the changes in the transfer  value of Mr Ks pension benefits and I can see 
that they did fall in the early part of September. So I can understand why Mr K is 
disappointed about the time the transfer took.  But Scottish Widows has no control over the 
movements in the value of Mr Ks benefits   the value could just have  easily have risen in 
that period. I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr K was anticipating a fall in the 
market and so made Scottish Widows aware that his transfer needed to be completed  at a 
certain time.
So in summary I dont think that Mr Ks transfer was unreasonably delayed  by something 
that Scottish  Widows did wrong. Scottish  Widows responded promptly  to his request to 
transfer his pension, and although it gave him some  incorrect information, Mr Ks actions 
meant that mistake didnt  delay things. So I dont think Scottish Widows needs to pay Mr K 
any compensation in relation to the time the transfer  took to complete.
For completeness I should also say that I have looked at the transfer  value information  that 
was provided to Mr K by Scottish Widows.  The amount that was ultimately transferred to F 
was less that the value given to Mr K when Scottish Widows sent him the paperwork in early 
September. But that paperwork did make  it clear that the transfer value would be calculated  
at the time the transfer took place, and so could be lower than the estimate that was given. 
So I dont  think Scottish Widows  has done  anything wrong here either.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Scottish Widows  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6894473