K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK plc increased the minimum monthly payments due 
on his Barclaycard account, even though  it had only recently increased his credit  limit.
background
Towards the end of 2018 Barclaycard increased the credit limit on Mr Ks account.  But he 
then received an email  in January 2019  with advice about how to improve  his finances, 
followed a few days later by a letter telling him that he was in persistent debt and needed to 
increase his monthly payments.  
Mr K thought  that this was threatening, particularly given the quite recent increase in his 
credit limit. 
In response, Barclaycard explained  to Mr K that regulators  rules required it to contact him if, 
over an 18-month period,  he had paid more in interest and charges than in reducing his 
credit card debt. It said that this had not applied when it had increased Mr Ks credit limit, but 
that his use of the card in the weeks after that had put him into persistent debt. It had acted 
in the way it had because  relevant regulations required it to do so. Barclaycard accepted  that 
it hadnt handled Mr Ks complaint as well as it could  have done and offered £25 in 
recognition of that  but it didnt accept that it was wrong to contact Mr K in the way it did. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator agreed  with Barclaycard that 
it was right to increase  the minimum monthly  payment that Mr K needed to make. Mr K didnt 
agree, and so his complaint has been  passed to me  as the final stage in our process.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Im broadly in 
agreement with the investigators conclusions.
In deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, I must take into account,  amongst 
other things,  relevant regulators  rules, guidance and standards. Barclaycard says that rules  
about persistent  debt meant that it had to act in the way it did, so Ive considered carefully  
what they say. 
The relevant  rules are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer  Credit  
sourcebook (which is known as CONC and forms part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook). The effect of CONC 6.7.27  is that, where the total amount paid to reduce a 
credit card balance over an 18-month period  is less than the amount paid in interest,  fees 
and charges over the same period, the card provider must:  
tell the customer that theyve paid less in principal than in interest, fees and charges in 
the previous 18 months;  
explain  that increasing monthly payments will reduce the cost of borrowing and time it 
will take to repay the debt; 
encourage the customer to contact the card provider to discuss their financial 
circumstances; 
warn the customer of the potential consequences if payments comprise  a lower amount 
in principal than in interest,  fees and charges in consecutive 18-month periods; and 
Ref: DRN62077582provide information about not-for-profit advice bodies. 
The relevance of being in the same position after a second 18-month  period is that, at that 
point, the card provider  might have to consider suspending the account.  
Im satisfied therefore that Barclaycards  actions in contacting  Mr K in the way it did were  
driven by rules requiring it to address persistent credit card debt. Its account  terms allowed it 
to increase the monthly minimum payment, and Im satisfied  too that, even though  thats not 
a requirement under  the rules, it was a reasonable action to take in the circumstances.  I also 
think it was reasonable  in the circumstances for Barclaycard to mention  the possibility of 
suspension of the account. 
Taking everything into account,  I believe that Barclaycards offer of £25 is sufficient to 
resolve Mr Ks complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Ks complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6207758