K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about Allianz Insurance Plcs settlement of her pet insurance claim. My 
references to Allianz include  its agents.
background
Mrs H had pet insurance for her dog, insured by Allianz. The policy  covers vet fees for illness  
or injury for 12 months only or up to the maximum benefit of £3,000,  whichever is reached  
first. 
In March 2018 Mrs H took her dog to the vet after her dog slipped over.  The dog was 
diagnosed with a ruptured cruciate ligament in her left hind leg. Mrs Hs vet sent a 
preauthorisation form to Allianz with a treatment cost estimate of £2,800. Allianz authorised  
the request within the terms of the policy and the surgery took place.
In July 2018 Mrs Hs dog was diagnosed with cruciate ligament damage in her right hind leg. 
Mrs Hs vet sent a preauthorisation  form to Allianz  to authorise the cost of the right leg 
treatment with a cost estimate  of £3,339.52. Allianz authorised  this request within  the terms 
of the policy  and the surgery took place. Mrs H then submitted a claim for the treatment of 
both legs for over £6,000.
Allianz accepted  the claim and paid £3,000. It said there was no policy  cover for the full 
amount of the claim as £3,000 is the maximum policy  benefit  for an illness.  Allianzs vet had 
contacted Mrs Hs vet and Allianz believed the dogs cruciate ligament damage in both legs 
was caused by the same condition.
Mrs H complained to us. She said Allianz misled  her by preauthorising the treatments  for 
both legs but only paying about half the cost. Also, her vet said there  was no evidence  to 
definitively show the cruciate ligament damage  in both legs was due to the same  underlying  
cause.
 
Our investigator said Allianzs  settlement of the claim was fair. She thought Allianzs  letter 
authorising the second claim had been  clear Allianz would only pay the policy limit of £3,000. 
Also, she was persuaded by Allianzs  vets opinion that the cruciate  ligament  damage in both 
legs was due to the same underlying cause
Mrs H disagrees  and wants  an ombudsmans  decision. She said: Allianz  approved both 
preauthorisation forms which confirmed  it would cover both treatments; Allianz  didnt warn  
her she had to pay and shed been  left with a large  bill; Allianz  didnt make  clear why it  
wouldnt pay the full amount;  the left and right cruciate ligament damage were two 
independent injuries.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H but I dont  uphold this complaint. I have to decide  whether 
Allianzs settlement  of the claim for both treatments was fair and reasonable and I think  it 
was. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN66820192The policy says each  illness or injury is covered for 12 months or up to the £3,000  limit, 
whichever happens  first.
The policy special conditions relating to claims for vet fees include:
After we have  paid the cost of:
treatment for 12 months or the maximum benefit  for an injury or illness  we will not 
pay the cost of any more  treatment for:
a) The same  injury or illness,
b) An injury or illness with the same  diagnosis as the injury or illness we have paid 
the limit for, or
c) An injury or illness that is caused  by, relates  to, or results from, an injury or illness 
that we have paid the limit for.
No matter where the injury or illness  is noticed  or happens in, or on, your pets body.
So if the same illness  or injury happens  in different legs Allianz will only pay up to the 
maximum benefit for that illness  or injury.  If the illness  or injury is the same the policy  doesnt  
give cover  of up to £3,000  for treatment of the left leg and also up to £3,000 for treatment of 
the right leg. The policy is clear about  that.
The same or very similar terms are in most  pet insurance policies. We generally say such 
terms are fair although if theres evidence that its probable the cause of the illness or injury  
was different we may say an insurer should  pay the claim. Ill consider whether the 
illness/injury was the same further below.
Mrs H feels strongly  that she was misled by Allianz approving her preauthorisation claim for 
the second treatment.  She understood the approval  meant the whole of the claim would be 
covered. But importantly Allianzs letters  dated 31 July 2018 to Mrs H and her vet said:
Treatment for this pet's illness  or injury  are covered by your (client's)  policy, provided 
that the treatment  is carried out within 12 months  from the first treatment date for the 
condition, and premium  payments  are up to date. However the estimated total cost 
for treatment submitted  is above  the maximum benefit stated on the Certificate of 
Insurance. As such  we can only agree to provide cover up to the maximum benefit 
limit for this condition.
Please check the policy documents  before making any claim  
I think Allianz was clear that the estimated total cost for treatment submitted was above the 
maximum benefit and it only agreed to provide  cover  up to the maximum benefit limit for this 
condition. At that stage  Allianz thought the condition  on the left and right legs was the same 
because on the preauthorisation request form Mrs Hs vet had ticked that her dog had been  
seen for this illness or injury and any similar  or related illness or injury and any similar or 
related clinical  signs.
I dont think Allianz did mislead  Mrs H about what it would  cover.  I also think Allianz clearly 
explained why it hadnt paid the whole of the claim for the second treatment in its final 
response letter to Mrs H.
Ive seen the evidence from Mrs Hs vet and Allianzs vet about  whether the cause of the 
damage affecting Mrs Hs dogs legs was the same.
Ref: DRN66820193Mrs Hs vet says the left hind leg seems  to have been a 'traumatic' cruciate rupture, the dog 
slipped and then became lame  on her left leg. She says it isnt known what caused the right 
hind leg cruciate  to rupture, so its not possible to say definitively whether it was the same  
underlying condition. When the dog was anaesthetised for her left leg lameness,  her right 
hind stifle was noted as 'no abnormalities detected'  with no signs of cruciate disease on the 
x-ray or stifle palpation and manipulation. 
Allianzs vet says two independent injuries in separate legs are extremely unlikely causes of 
bilateral cruciate ruptures and theres no evidence of injury  to both legs.  Also, theres no 
evidence of any injury  significant enough  to rupture a healthy  cruciate.  The vet understood 
that a dog slipping could lead to a diseased cruciate  rupturing, and said it was highly likely 
the cruciate disease was the underlying cause especially  with hindsight as both cruciates 
ruptured. Cruciate disease can lead to both left and right cruciates rupturing within months, 
even years, many within six months of each  other  which  is Mrs Hs dogs situation. The vet 
also detailed  why a lack of radiographically visible degenerative joint disease doesnt mean 
disease isnt present in a limb.
Mrs Hs vet responded that she couldnt  disagree  the right leg may have degenerative 
cruciate disease similar to that seen in the left leg but one cannot  state  definitively it could 
not be traumatic.
On the vets evidence I cant  be completely sure of the cause for the ruptures but where 
theres dispute I make a decision  on whats more likely than not to have happened.
Im persuaded by Allianzs vets evidence. Mrs Hs vet doesnt disagree with Allianzs  vet that 
the right as well as the left leg may have  degenerative cruciate  disease.  Although  I cant  
definitively say the right leg damage wasnt  caused by trauma, as Ive said, I make  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. On the evidence I think  its probable  the cruciate 
ligament ruptures on both legs were  caused  by the same underlying condition. Allianz could 
reasonably understand that the damage  to both legs was caused  by the same illness.
Im satisfied that Allianz fairly applied the one maximum  benefit  limit of  £3,000  to the 
treatments for both legs and fairly settled Mrs Hs claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6682019