K820x#14Complaint
Mrs R and Ms K are unhappy with the way their claim was handled by U K Insurance  Limited  
(UKI) following  fire damage  at their home.
Background
Mrs R and Ms K have a policy of buildings and contents insurance with UKI. In March  2018 
there was a fire at their property which caused extensive smoke  and soot damage. As a 
result, Mrs R and Ms K were moved to temporary accommodation. A schedule  of work was 
agreed, and a pre-work meeting took place in May 2018. Work  started on 4 June 2018 and 
was scheduled  to be completed  at the end of August 2018. 
In August  2018  Mrs R and Ms K raised concerns about the height of the new kitchen units 
installed by UKIs contractor, and the height  of the kitchen floor. They  said the worktops  in 
the kitchen were higher than in their old kitchen, as was the floor  which meant  floor heights 
were not even creating a trip hazard. Mrs R and Ms K said theyd made  it clear  to 
contractors Mrs R needed the kitchen units to be the same height  as previously, as she has 
a medical condition. Mrs R says that as a result of her condition she may have to use a 
wheelchair in future and the increased height  of the kitchen units means she suffers more 
pain when cooking and baking. The increased height of the units  also had an impact on the 
height of the window sill, making it harder for Mrs R to open and close  the window. In 
addition, Mrs R and Ms K were  unhappy with the standard  of work completed.
UKI reviewed the complaint. They noted  the new kitchen units  were  standard units  chosen 
by Mrs R and Ms K which  were  12mm higher than the old. The units  could have been fitted 
at a different  height, but there was no indication of a need to do so. In relation to the floor,  
UKI said the difference in height resulted from the fact Mrs R and Ms K chose different 
flooring in the kitchen, which was thicker than the flooring they had before. UKI upheld 
aspects of Mrs R and Ms Ks complaint  in relation  to snagging,  failure to pass on information 
about alternative accommodation  and the fact there  was no record  of a call with the 
contractor in August  2018 about the kitchen. UKI paid them  £250 compensation. 
Mrs R and Ms K were  unhappy with UKIs response  and brought a complaint to this service. 
The investigator who considered the complaint didnt  uphold it. She said UKI were  required 
to complete repairs on a like for like basis and had done so. There  was no evidence Mrs R 
and Ms K asked for the kitchen units to be an exact height, and the floor level was only 
different because Mrs R and Ms K chose limestone tiles which were thicker  than the original 
ceramic tiles. The investigator  said the contractor had tried hard to resolve  snagging issues 
and work  was completed in expected timescales.  
Mrs R and Ms K were  unhappy with the investigators opinion and asked for their complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They have asked for compensation to put outstanding 
issues right and for the stress theyve  been put under and the impact  on their health. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN63435882After the investigators  opinion  Mrs R and Ms K said the outstanding  issues related to 
kitchen worktop heights, flooring and kitchen  window  levels  and decorating. Ive therefore 
focused my decision on these areas. 
Kitchen worktop  heights
Theres no dispute that the worktops  fitted after the fire are higher than before it. Mrs Rs and 
Ms Ks buildings policy is one of indemnity,  which means UKI should put them  in the same  
position they were  in before the fire. So, I need  to decide if UKI have done that. Putting them 
back in the same position doesnt mean UKI need  to replace the kitchen with one that is 
exactly the same as prior to the fire, as this isnt always possible. In this case  UKIs 
contractor installed a kitchen that was broadly the same as the one Mrs R and Ms K had 
before the fire. It was a standard kitchen that was correctly  fitted,  and the units are a similar 
height to the fire damaged  units. In these circumstances I think UKI acted reasonably  and 
properly indemnified Mrs R and Ms K. 
Mrs R and Ms K say UKI should  have  taken in to account their individual  circumstances and 
fitted units at exactly the same height  as the damaged ones. I agree with Mrs R and Ms K, 
but only if UKI were  made aware of their specific requirements before the new kitchen was 
fitted. I havent seen  any evidence  this was the case. Mrs R and Ms K have referred to an 
email to the contractor  and surveyor of 15 August 2018, and to a call with the contractor in 
August 2018,  but these were after the fitting  of the kitchen started and shortly before the 
completion of work. UKIs contractor has said it was possible to reduce the height  of the 
units at the outset, but not now theyve been  fitted.  Mrs R and Ms K have also provided 
evidence from the supplier of the new kitchen. This says its possible to adjust the height of 
the units, which isnt in dispute. The real point is whether UKI or their agents (the surveyor or 
contractor) were aware of Mrs Rs medical  condition and the need  for kitchen units  to be the 
same height  as before the fire before the new units were installed. Im not persuaded they 
were.
Mrs R has provided a medical report which details how shes  affected  by the increased 
height of the kitchen units. Im sympathetic to the situation Mrs R now finds herself in, but Im 
not persuaded Mrs R and Ms K told UKI they needed their new kitchen to be exactly  the 
same height  as the old. UKI have complied  with the terms of the policy in providing units of a 
similar specification  and similar height.
Kitchen flooring and window sill height
I have seen photographs which show the kitchen floor isnt the same  height as the 
surrounding rooms.  UKIs  contractor says Mrs R and Ms K were made aware this would be 
the case when  they chose  limestone tiles rather  than ceramic. They say there was no 
conversation about it until some of the limestone tiles had been laid. Its not possible for me 
to establish what  was said at the time,  so I need to consider  whether UKI have put Mrs R 
and Ms K in broadly  the same position  as before the fire. I believe they have. The floor levels  
are similar,  and Mrs R and Ms K chose the new flooring. 
The window sill height has been  affected by the height of the floor. Im satisfied  the 
increased height is within a reasonable range and UKIs contractors  werent made aware of 
any reason why they should be fitted at the same  height as before the fire. 
Snagging/decoration
Ref: DRN63435883Mrs R and Ms K are unhappy with some of the decorating completed by UKIs contractors. I 
see that the contractors  have  gone to some  lengths to put things right and have visited  
Mrs R and Ms Ks house on a number of occasions. At the last meeting  contractors  offered 
to complete further work but Mrs R and Ms K rejected the offer. Im aware  they say this is 
because the problem was that the areas werent  properly prepared  before painting. Ive not 
seen any evidence of this, but in any event consider UKI have not been given sufficient 
opportunity to put things right, so Im not awarding  any compensation. 
Mrs R and Ms K have said that theres  some  cracking and soot showing following the repair  
which wasnt evident at the snagging stage. As these issues  didnt form part of the complaint 
brought to this service, and UKI hasnt had the opportunity to respond,  I wont  consider them 
as part of this decision. 
Overall, I consider UKI have complied with the terms of the policy  and treated Mrs R and Ms 
K reasonably in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6343588