K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that whilst assessing  his claim Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
accessed his medical  records without his consent,  rather than requesting  the medical report  
he authorised them  to obtain.
background
Mr O is a member  of a group income protection scheme offered by his employer and 
provided by Aviva. The policy  has a 26 week deferred period  before  a claim can be made. 
Mr O was signed off work at the end of March 2017. In November 2017 Mr Os employers 
sent him a claim form to complete. He signed  and returned the claim form which included 
authority for Aviva to obtain a medical  report from his GP.
Aviva had taken over the income protection scheme from another  provider. The claim form 
sent to Mr O was an old form used by the previous insurers. Its Avivas policy to request 
copy medical records, rather  than a medical report, to support a claim. Unfortunately,  neither 
Aviva or Mr Os GP, noticed that hed authorised  his GP to provide a medical report. So 
when Aviva wrote to his GP requesting copies of his medical  records,  this is what his GP 
provided.
Mr O is unhappy that his medical records have been accessed without his consent.  He says 
this caused issues  with his employers, initially caused his claim to be declined due to 
incorrect entries in his medical  records, he had to obtain further reports  and information  to 
support his claim and this all caused unnecessary distress, exacerbated his condition and 
delayed resolution  of his claim.
Mr Os employers, as the policyholder, complained  to Aviva  about the unauthorised 
disclosure of his medical records. Aviva  apologised for this and Mr Os employers passed 
this apology on to him.
Mr O remained  unhappy and complained to this service. Our investigator considered Mr Os 
complaint but she didnt  recommend his complaint  be upheld.  Mr O remains  unhappy and 
the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that Mr O was sent an out of date claim form to complete by his employers 
and that neither Aviva or his GP, noticed the attached medical authority was in respect of a 
medical report, rather than disclosure  of his medical records.  I can understand Mr Os 
concern that his records were disclosed without his consent. This has happened  as a result  
of mistakes by a number  of parties.  Aviva  has provided a written apology,  through  Mr Os 
employers as they are the policyholder, for their part in this as Mr O wanted.  As Mr Os 
employers and his GP also contributed to the error, I dont think  Aviva need  to do anything 
more.
Mr O has said that had Aviva requested a medical  report, instead of his medical records, his 
claim wouldnt have initially been  declined, leaving him in financial hardship as he had no 
income.
Ref: DRN64274402Mr O was signed off work on 31 March  2017  and received  company  sick pay until 1 May 
2017. From  this date he was in receipt  of SSP. But the group  income  protection  policy  had a 
26 week deferred period. Mr Os employers sent him a claim form to complete in November 
2017, even though the claim form says it should be submitted as soon as possible and in 
any event within six weeks of any illness or injury stopping you from working. The form was 
completed by Mr O and is dated  23 November 2017. 
The claim form, together with an Occupational  Health  report was submitted to Aviva on 
behalf of Mr Os employers on 12 December 2017.  By this time Mr O had been in receipt of 
SSP since  the start of May 2017. While Aviva provide the policy the deferred  period would 
have been chosen by Mr Os employers and the period Mr O had been in receipt of SSP 
may well have contributed  to the financial hardship he says hes experienced. 
Aviva contacted Mr Os employers on 2 January 2018 to advise them that copies of Mr Os 
medical records had been requested. The GPs surgery responded to the request quickly.  
The records  were printed on 5 January 2018  and sent to Aviva on 11 January 2018. 
On 8 February 2018 Aviva contacted Mr Os employers advising them that his medical 
records had been  considered by their Chief Medical Officer and while they didnt  dispute  
hed had symptoms,  his medical records  didnt  support that hed been  unable to return  to 
work before the end of the deferred  period.  
The definition of Incapacity in the policy is:-
Incapacity or Incapacitated  shall mean  that a member is incapacitated, by reason of illness 
or injury, when the insurer is satisfied that the employee is incapable of performing  the 
material and substantial duties of his or her own occupation and is not following any other 
occupation.
And for a claim to be successful the policy terms required Mr O to meet the definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period.  But when Aviva reviewed Mr Os medical  records 
these included an entry  dated 24 August 2017,  so during the deferred period, which stated  
his symptoms had considerably improved. And after that date Aviva said there were no 
further entries suggesting a deterioration,  or worsening of his condition. Then in October 
2017 Mr Os treating consultant had noted  he was feeling better and his hormone levels 
were regarded as excellent.  So Aviva didnt  accept Mr O hadnt been able to return to work  
during the deferred period, and his claim was declined.
Ive considered Mr Os medical  records and while  he may not agree with the entries in 
August 2017 and October 2017, they do appear  in his records. As they do I cant say with 
certainty that, had a medical report been requested,  the report  wouldnt have recorded an 
improvement in Mr Os condition during the deferred  period.
The medical authority  included  in the claim form gave Mr O a number of options to choose 
from, when a medical report was requested. These included  asking  to see the report before 
it was sent to Aviva and asking his doctor to change the report  if he considered it misleading. 
And if the doctor  refused  to change the report,  Mr O could add his own comments before it 
was sent to Aviva.
Aviva say Mr O didnt  ask to see any report before it was sent to them. Mr O has said the 
consent was hidden in a body of text. But as he was aware hed consented to a medical 
Ref: DRN64274403report being obtaining, and his options appear  just beneath the explanation that his consent  
was required,  I dont think this information  was hidden. While  the consent  form, as Mr O has 
told us, does say:-
You can give your consent,  but ask to see any report before it is sent to us. In this case you 
have 21 days after we notify you that we have requested a report from the doctor to make  
arrangements to see the report.
I havent seen  anything to indicate Mr O said he wanted to see any report before it was sent 
to Aviva.  Simply signing and returning  the form wouldnt have indicated to Aviva 
Mr O wished to see the report.  So I dont think Aviva needed to tell Mr O theyd contacted 
his GP. And Aviva did notify Mr Os employers, the policyholder, that theyd requested 
copies of his medical  records. I cant hold Aviva  responsible for Mr Os employers failure to 
pass this information  on to him.
Had Mr O said he wanted to see the report, or if his employers had told him his medical 
records had been  requested, I think  its possible it might have been noticed  sooner that hed 
been sent an out of date medical authority.  But, I think  there would still have been a delay, 
as had this been noticed, I think its likely  that Mr O would have been asked to sign an 
updated form of authority,  to authorise release of his medical  records. This is because 
Avivas standard  practice for new claims,  is to ask for medical records, not a medical  report. 
So I think Aviva  would  still have  initially declined the claim, having reviewed Mr Os medical 
records, although he would have then authorised the disclosure of his records. 
Mr O was advised by his employers that his claim had been declined  and requested a 
further explanation for this from Aviva. Having obtained agreement from his employers 
Aviva provided further reasons for his claim being declined  to Mr O on 14 February  2018.
On the same  day Mr Os GP wrote a letter on his behalf about his condition. In this he 
describes Mr Os condition as medically challenging and says some  of the information in 
our GP notes and sick notes were provisional  and have  now been revisited. He goes on to 
say I think the GP notes  from my surgery, and the sick notes  issued may have  been  
misleading in your assessment. And while  the GP notes Mr O disputes the entry  on 24 
August, and says he felt much the same,  unwell,  tired and unable to concentrate, he doesnt 
say this entry is wrong. The GP acknowledges hes not an occupational  health doctor and 
suggests an occupational health assessment  may be crucial in ascertaining  Mr Os fitness to 
work, as his last assessment was in June 2017.  
After the GPs letter was received Mr Os employers arranged an occupational health 
assessment for him. This took place by telephone  on 14 February 2018. The report  is dated 
19 February 2018, although  its noted  it was amended  on 27 and 28 February 2018. The 
report confirms Mr O has significant  ongoing symptoms, was having ongoing investigations 
and treatment, was taking regular medication both orally and occasionally  by injection, and 
was unfit for work.
This report and the report from Mr Os GP were considered by Aviva and on 13 March  2018 
they advised Mr Os employers their earlier decision to decline the claim had been  amended  
and his claim would be paid. So less than a month  had passed  from Mr O speaking  to his 
GP and Aviva  notifying the claim would be paid.  And I dont think this was an unreasonable 
time to reassess the claim. 
Ref: DRN64274404Although there were  clearly issues with how Aviva  dealt  with Mr Os medical  authority I think 
had Mr Os employers sent him the claim form, within the timescale suggested by Aviva, all 
the issues regarding  Mr Os medical condition could have been resolved  within  the deferred 
period. And there would have been  no delay in approving his claim. But as this is an issue 
between Mr O and his employers its not something I can consider further  as 
employer/employee issues  dont fall within this services jurisdiction. 
The evidence Ive considered also suggests  Mr Os employers raised issues with Aviva 
about communicating directly with Mr O about  his claim, rather  than with them,  the 
policyholder. These issues were  resolved,  Aviva apologised  to the employers and obtained 
their authority to contact  Mr O with the information  hed requested  regarding  the reasons for 
his claim being declined. But I havent seen  any evidence  of any other  issues  involving 
Aviva.
So Im not persuaded that the disclosure of Mr Os medical records  delayed the resolution of 
his claim.  And while I understand he was upset that the records  where  disclosed without his 
authority, I havent seen  any evidence that this exacerbated his medical  condition.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Os complaint 
against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6427440