K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading at the time as Halifax mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs F bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  in branch. 
At the time,  Mrs F was employed as an office  worker. She has told us she was entitled to six 
months full sick pay followed by six months  of half sick pay from her employer. Shes also 
told us she was entitled to death  in service benefit  and redundancy  cover. Mrs F has said 
she had whiplash in 1997 but she appears  to have been in good  health at the time of the 
sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It also provided  life cover  equal to Mrs Fs credit limit up to a 
maximum of £25,000. It offered to repay 10% of Mrs Fs credit card balance  in the event of a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost no more than £0.79 per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed in 2006.
Mrs Fs representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Fs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Fs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs F about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs F and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs F received  was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN67593852Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs F reiterated that she wouldnt have taken the PPI 
out if it had been properly  explained to her in full. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN67593853The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Fs 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Fs complaint.  
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs F sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs F and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs F know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ref: DRN67593854Halifax has provided a copy of the credit card application Mrs F completed at the time she 
applied for her credit card and the PPI. On it theres  a section about the PPI. I can see a box 
has been crossed to say Mrs F wanted the cover. Whilst I accept that the box has been pre-
filled, I think its more likely the form was completed following a discussion between  Mrs F 
and a representative from Halifax. If Mrs F had refused the PPI I think its more  likely the box 
would have been left blank. I can see that there is another insurance product which Mrs F 
has not taken  out. Mrs F has signed and dated the application form  and Im satisfied that 
its more likely she would have read the form she was signing.
The PPI would have  appeared  on her monthly credit card statements so if she hadnt wanted 
the cover  or wanted to question  it she could  have done so at any time with Halifax. I havent 
seen evidence she did this. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs F knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mrs F cant remember all the details about  the sale and hasnt confirmed  in her 
questionnaire to this service whether  advice  was given to her. This is understandable  as the 
sale happened over eighteen years ago. However, Halifax  said the PPI was taken out in 
branch and advice  was provided during this sale. I can see from a screenshot  that this 
application was made in branch. I will treat this sale as an advised  sale as I think it more 
likely was an advised sale.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs F with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs F. It seems Mrs F cant remember clearly  what happened  and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  as the 
sale took place  so long ago. The adviser  had some limited information about  Mrs Fs 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mrs F would have been caught by the significant exclusions  and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Halifax  considered  whether Mrs F had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Halifax did all it should  have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs F given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs F, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs F had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Fs ability to continue  to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
Ref: DRN67593855working for an extended period of time  even allowing for sick pay and the 
redundancy benefits she says she would have been  entitled to.
-Although Mrs F says she was financially stretched  at the time,  Ive seen nothing else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs F. There was 
nothing about  Mrs Fs employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult 
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs F has told us about a 
whiplash injury she sustained in 1997 before the sale of the policy.  Mrs F received 
treatment for this injury but this doesnt appear  to be caught by the specific terms and 
conditions on limitations and exclusions. There were also no additional  restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and for up to 10 months per successful  claim for unemployment,  it still 
provided useful  cover  given Mrs Fs circumstances and the fact the policy could have 
cleared her outstanding card balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs F was given  a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs F would  have been told this  at the very least  during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs F would have  taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was.
Im also satisfied Mrs F would have realised the policy wasnt  free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs F 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mrs F might have  been given, I think its more  likely  than not that she based her decision on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs F, Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs F. Im not persuaded that Halifax gave Mrs F all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN67593856Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Fs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs F about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Fs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs F has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs F? To what extent  did Mrs F suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs F. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs F 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs F 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Halifax took the steps it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs F, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs F has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs F would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs F says she would not have taken  it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN67593857return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs F had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Fs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs F ought  reasonably to have known she would  have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.
But, I accept that Halifax didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs F 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs F thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs F knew about or 
should have known about or for which she received advice, treatment or counselling 
from any doctor during  the 12 months before  the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs F 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs F be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs F pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs F from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs F says she had a medical  
condition before the PPI was taken out, I dont think better information about this exclusion 
would have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because Mrs F has told us she suffered with 
whiplash in 1997  and she hasnt said this caused her ongoing problems and it wasnt 
something she appeared to have seen a doctor  about in the 12 months  before  the start date. 
So, I dont think it was something which would have affected her decision to take it out.
 
Ref: DRN67593858And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs F would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs F had known  she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her job 
or any similar job but also unable to do any paid work which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Fs 
circumstances I still think she would have  been interested  in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs F would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting, and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Fs representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs F would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs F 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs F believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs F in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN67593859That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs F compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs F thinks  Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs F, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2002 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Fs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs F and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs F in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6759385