K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society  Limited failed to inform  him 
that a policy  he took out in July 2004  was a reviewable decreasing  term assurance (DTA) 
policy which  provided life cover and critical illness cover on a reducing scale over 14 years. 
He says he had wanted a whole life policy, and not one that provided reducing cover  over a 
fixed term.
When Legal and General  wrote to him in March 2009 and March 2014 advising him of the 
outcome of the policy review, it didnt advise him of the current  level of cover each time. Only 
when it wrote to him in 2017 advising that he could manage his policy online did it notify him 
that cover  had reduced to around £14,000  from its original level of £60,000.
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr F has asked  Legal  and General  to refund his premiums.
background
In June 2004, Mr F completed an application  for a reviewable decreasing term assurance 
(DTA) policy  providing cover  over 14 years that would  repay  the outstanding balance  of a 
capital repayment  mortgage if he died or suffered a critical illness.  Legal and General 
provided the policy. It didnt advise him to take it out; that advice was given to him by another 
business.
Mr F applied  for life cover and critical illness cover of £71,250 to match the re-mortgage  loan 
hed arranged with the lender, repayable over 14 years. The annual premium  was just under 
£700.00, including £15.00  for waiver of premium benefit.
However, when his application was underwritten, it seems Legal and General couldnt offer 
him waiver of premium  benefit and also applied a rating that increased the annual  premium 
significantly. So, it provided him an alternative illustration for a DTA policy offering life and 
critical illness cover of £60,000 at a (rated) annual premium of £760.00. Mr Fs adviser 
confirmed to Legal and General that he agreed to take out the policy  on these  terms. 
Legal and General duly issued the policy schedule to him, which  confirmed a start date of 
July 2004, an expiry date of July 2018  and a table of sums assured at the start of each year 
until the policy expired.
Legal and General reviewed the policy in March  2009 and March  2014 and wrote to Mr F 
each time to confirm that the premium  would remain the same (to maintain the ongoing level 
of cover). The level of cover provided  by the policy at each review date wasnt  quoted.
In 2017, Legal and General again wrote to Mr F attaching a summary of his policy details 
which included the current amount  of cover of £7,500 given in the policy  schedule  after 13 
years. Mr F promptly cancelled the policy, arranged a new plan and complained that he 
thought the policy provided life and critical illness cover of £60,000  for life.
  
His complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt think  it could be upheld. 
Briefly, he accepted that Mr F would have known the levels of cover provided  by the policy  in 
2009 and 2014 had they been  quoted in each  review  letter,  and that this might have 
prompted him to cancel  the policy earlier than in 2017. But he couldnt see that 
Legal and General had done anything wrong.  It provided him the policy  schedule  in 2004 
Ref: DRN62467262which set out the reduced levels of cover at the beginning of each year until the policy  
expired, and it wasnt obliged to repeat this information at review  in 2009 and 2014.
The investigator was satisfied that Legal and General set up the policy  correctly  in 
accordance with Mr Fs application and presented the nature  and terms of it to him in a way 
that was clear and correct. It was Mr Fs adviser who was responsible for ensuring that he 
understood how the policy worked  and that it was appropriate for his financial need.
All things  considered, the investigator  couldnt hold Legal and General responsible for Mr F 
being unaware that the policy provided  a progressively reducing level of cover  over a fixed  
term.
In response, Mr F disagreed with the investigators assessment. He said the situation was 
unfair, and that Legal and General hadnt provided him sufficient information to know  the 
nature and terms of the policy hed taken out.  
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review.     
       
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The outcome of this complaint turns on the respective responsibilities of Legal and General 
and Mr Fs adviser in the process taking  out this policy. 
Legal and General is the policy provider. It did not recommend this policy to Mr F and it, 
therefore, wasnt responsible for ensuring that he understood it (other  than through the policy  
documentation it provide him at outset)  or that it was suitable for his financial objective. That 
was his advisers responsibility.     
So, the issue for me to consider is whether Legal and General set up the policy  correctly on 
the terms Mr F requested  in his application  and issued documentation to him that explained 
the nature  and terms of the policy clearly  and correctly to him.
In June 2004, Mr F completed and submitted an application to Legal and General for a 
decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy to provide life and critical illness  of £71,250  
progressively reduced on a prescribed scale each year over 14 years,  plus waiver of 
premium benefit. The annual premium on standard terms was almost  £700.00.  Mr F signed 
the application to confirm,  among other things, that the information  he provided was accurate 
and complete and that it formed the basis of the policy he was applying for.
It does appear that, on underwriting his application, Legal and General applied  a rating to 
the premium and couldnt offer him waiver of premium. So, it issued  an alternative 
illustration for a DTA policy offering life and critical  illness cover of £60,000, again  reducing  
over 14 years at a (rated)  annual premium of £760.00. It received instructions from Mr Fs 
adviser to set up the policy  on these terms.
Legal and General duly issued a policy schedule to Mr F, which, among other things, 
confirmed the policy as a decreasing term assurance with critical illness cover over 14 years,  
starting in July 2004, with an expiry date of July 2018 and including  a table showing the level 
of cover at the start of each year until the policy expired.
Ref: DRN62467263          
I do understand, given  the nature of his complaint, why Mr F has argued  that 
Legal and General ought to have quoted  the level of cover the policy when  it was reviewed 
in 2009 and 2014. If so, I agree he would have seen that cover had reduced  over time and 
he might  have questioned whether he ever wanted, or still wanted,  a policy  that provided 
cover on this basis. 
But Legal  and General  had already  provided this information to him in the original policy 
schedule and it wasnt obliged to do so again in 2009 and 2014,  especially as it was the 
premium that was being reviewed, and not the level of cover. And there was no information 
in these review letters  that could have  led Mr F to believe he held a policy  that provided 
cover other than on the terms originally set out in the policy schedule.
The letter Mr F received from Legal and General in 2017 was altogether  different,  in that it 
was part of a general mailing to all policyholders  informing them that they could now 
manage their policies online.  This letter necessarily set out details of his policy;  most 
importantly, the level of cover it now provided,  to enable Mr F to review his general 
protection needs and, in particular, his current  level of cover.  The level of cover quoted in 
this letter  would have  been approximately £7,500, and not £14,000,  in accordance  with the 
figure quoted in the policy schedule he received in the final year.  And Mr F has admitted he 
did receive the policy schedule in July 2004, but didnt  read it.
All things  considered, Im satisfied that Legal  and General  set up the policy  exactly as Mr F 
requested in his application. While  he says he had wanted a policy that provided  a fixed  level 
of cover for life, Ive seen no evidence that he applied for, and accepted, a policy with 
Legal and General other than one that gave him life and critical illness  cover  of £60,000 that 
reduced at a pre-determined rate over 14 years.
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6246726