K822xcomplaint
Ms H says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background 
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Ms H took out in 1996. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
I issued a provisional which said I was planning  to uphold this complaint. Ms H had nothing 
further to add and said shed most likely accept a final decision that was in line with my 
provisional decision. AXA didnt respond. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint because I dont think  AXA gave Ms H clear  enough 
information about the policy. I say this because she declared on the credit card application  
that she was self-employed. And theres  no evidence that AXA told her that this would  make  
it harder for her to claim the unemployment  benefit  than she wouldve expected.
I dont think Ms H wouldve bought  the policy if shed realised AXA had given her enough  
information about it. So, I think Ms H has lost out because of what  AXA did wrong.
putting things right
AXA should  put Ms H in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.AXA should find out how much Ms H would have owed  when she closed her credit card
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
AXA should  then refund the difference between what Ms H owed when  she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms H made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.AXA should add simple interest on the difference between  what Ms H would have owed 
when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C.If  when AXA works out what Ms H would have owed each month  without PPI  Ms H 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, AXA should also pay simple  interest  on the 
Ref: DRN63865542extra Ms H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms H 
wouldve owed AXA something  on her credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a 
year. 
D.AXA should tell Ms H what its done to work  out A, B and C. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires AXA to take off tax from this interest.  AXA must give Ms 
H a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Hs complaint. AXA France  IARD  should put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6386554