K821x#15Complaint
Mr W has complained about the overdraft  facility on his National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) Select Platinum (initially Advantage Gold) packaged bank account. In essence, 
hes unhappy with the charges applied to his overdraft  and believes theyve exacerbated his 
financial difficulties. Hes also said NatWest mis-sold him his packaged account.  
Background to the complaint and my provisional decision
Mr W made a series  of complaint to NatWest in 2017 and 2018.  NatWest didnt think  it had 
anything wrong  either in relation to charging the overdraft  fees or in relation to the sale of the 
packaged account.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ws complaint on 9 March  2020. In my provisional 
decision, a copy  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision,  I explained  why I 
was minded to uphold  Mr Ws complaint that NatWest didnt treat him fairly and reasonably 
when it continued  adding interest, fees and charges to his overdraft after he said he lost his 
job in June 2014. But I didnt find that NatWest mis-sold the packaged account to Mr W. 
I also provided NatWest with a couple of options  in relation to how to put things right for     
Mr W. I invited both parties  to make any further  comments they wished to make by 23 March  
2020, before  I reached a final decision.  Following this, NatWest didnt respond to my 
provisional decision or ask for any additional  time to do so.
Mr W responded to say he agreed  with my provisional decision. But he also made a couple 
of further points regarding the frequency of his statements, NatWests  treatment of him in 
2017 and its failure  to switch him to a free account,  as well NatWests referral  to the Lending  
Standards Boards Lending  Code.  He also said that NatWest migrated his account from an 
Advantage Gold one to a Select  Platinum  one without telling him in 2015.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the response to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made a few points about  events  that occurred in 2015, 2017  and 2018. But it may 
help for me to explain  that Ive already directed NatWest to refund all the interest,  fees and 
charges (including  the packaged account ones)  it added from June 2014 onwards. So Mr W 
will be refunded the fees he was charged  during the periods  referred to. As this is the case,  I 
dont think that any further findings  I may make  in relation to these matters will make any 
difference to my final decision on this case. So while I appreciate  Mr Ws strength of feeling 
on these matters, I offer no comment in relation  to them in this final decision.
Finally for the sake of completeness  and the avoidance of doubt, Id also like to confirm  that 
the payments  Mr W made to his account from June 2014 onwards should be included in his 
reworked account  balance. 
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  Ive seen no reason  to alter the 
conclusions that I reached  in my provisional decision. As this is the case, I still find that      
Mr Ws complaint  about the fees applied to his overdraft from June 2014 onwards should  be 
upheld and that NatWest should  put things right.
Ref: DRN65579612Fair compensation  what  NatWest  needs to do to put things  right for Mr W.
Having carefully considered everything, and in the absence of any further arguments in 
response to my provisional  decision, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for NatWest  to put things right in the following way:
rework Mr Ws current overdraft balance so that all the interest,  packaged account fees 
and any other charges  applied to it from June 2014  onwards are removed;  
AND
if an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have been  
made NatWest should contact Mr W to arrange  a suitable repayment plan for this. It can 
also backdate  a default on Mr Ws credit file to June 2014 should it consider it necessary 
to do so; 
OR (if the effect of removing all interest  fees and charges results in there  no longer being 
an outstanding  balance)
any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr W. If no outstanding 
balance remains  after all adjustments have been  made then NatWest should remove all 
adverse information from Mr Ws credit file.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made (if 
they were) to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest.  NatWest  must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 9 March  2020, Im upholding 
Mr Ws complaint.  National  Westminster Bank  Plc should put things right in the way set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65579613COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Background 
Mr W made a series of complaints to NatWest in 2017 and 2018.  NatWest didnt think  it had anything  
wrong either in relation to charging  the overdraft fees or in relation to the sale of the packaged  account.
Our adjudicators then went on to look at Mr Ws concerns. And they thought  that NatWest hadnt done 
anything wrong either in relation to charging  the overdraft fees that it did or when selling the 
Advantage Gold account  in the first place. So none of our adjudicators thought  that Mr Ws complaint 
should be upheld. Mr W disagreed with our adjudicators  findings and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
My Findings
In my view,  that are two matters that I need to consider in order to provisionally  decide  this case. 
These are:
1.Did NatWest treat Mr W fairly and reasonably  when applying interest, fees and charges  to his 
account?
2.Did NatWest mis-sell the Advantage Gold packaged bank account  to Mr W?
If I find that NatWest didnt  act fairly and reasonably towards Mr W, in relation to either, or both, of 
these matters and that he has lost out as a result,  I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Ill start by looking at Mr Ws concerns about the interest,  fees and charges added  to his overdraft.
Did NatWest treat Mr W fairly  and reasonably  when applying the overdraft fees to his account?
Mr W has said NatWest  failed to take account of the severe change in his financial circumstances, 
him losing his job in 2014, and continued  to take charges  on his account  when it should  have realised 
that his account wasnt suitable. In his words, hes said I was in financial  hardship through  the loss of 
my job and the actions of NatWest meant I was in a spiral of charges as the charges kept mounting 
and the overdraft  and charges kept costing me more in charges.
Mr Ws comments lead me to think that his complaint  is that NatWest ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
suspended the interest and charges on his account  once  he lost his job. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that he is unhappy with NatWests decision to provide him with an overdraft in the first place. 
So Ive not looked into NatWests initial decision  to provide Mr W with the overdraft itself and whether  any 
limit increases were fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. Ive simply  considered whether NatWest 
treated Mr W fairly and reasonably when he says his circumstances changed  for the worse in 2014.
At this point, I think that it would be helpful  for me to start by setting  out the regulatory framework and 
good industry practice applicable during the period Im considering.  
Regulation by the Office  of Fair Trading  (up to 31 March  2014)
At the start of 2014, NatWest held a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), which  
permitted it to carry out consumer credit activities.
Ref: DRN65579614Section 25(2)  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to consider when 
deciding whether  to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)  In determining whether  an applicant  for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of this 
section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant  including  
(amongst other things) 
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience  in relation to consumer credit 
businesses, consumer hire businesses  or ancillary credit businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge  and experience  of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him under 
the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement  in connection  
with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicant's  
employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, where  the applicant is a body 
corporate, any person  appearing to the OFT to be a controller of the body corporate or an 
associate of any such person, has
(a)committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty  or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it relates  to 
the consumer credit jurisdiction under  that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or other 
transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds to a 
provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national  
origins in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; or
(e)engaged in business  practices  appearing  to the OFT to be deceitful  or 
oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful  or not) [my 
emphasis].
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section 25(2A(e))  and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may consider to be 
deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper  include practices in the carrying on of a 
consumer credit  business  that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending  [my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce clear guidance on the test for irresponsible lending for the 
purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  And so it issued its guidance on 
irresponsible lending (ILG).
Ref: DRN65579615So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable  outcome on 
Mr Ws complaint.
The foreword to the guidance set out its purpose and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses  and 
consumer representatives as to the business practices that the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT) considers 
may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper business 
practices which, if engaged in by a consumer  credit business, could call into consideration  its fitness 
to hold a consumer credit  licence.
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's  view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to represent 
an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which  might constitute  irresponsible lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. 
Section 2.1 says:
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and fair 
business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms,  creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when  advertising, selling, or seeking to enforce  a 
credit agreement
make a reasonable assessment of whether  a borrower  can afford  to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make an informed choice
monitor  the borrower's repayment record during  the course of the agreement, offering assistance 
where borrowers appear to be experiencing  difficulty  and treat borrowers fairly and with 
forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things,  it says:
In addition to the above there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers.  Borrowers should  not be targeted with credit products that are clearly 
unsuitable for them, subjected  to high pressure selling, aggressive or oppressive  behaviour or 
inappropriate coercion, or conduct  which  is deceitful,  oppressive,  unfair or improper,  whether 
unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current  indebtedness, poor credit 
history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in particular, not be 
targeted or exploited.
Section 4 of the guidance is concerned with the assessment  of affordability that lenders were  required 
to carry out before granting credit. I mention  this for reference because  as Im not looking at 
NatWests decisions to provide an overdraft  in the first place or increase Mr Ws overdraft  limit, Im not 
considering any lending decisions in this case.
Ref: DRN65579616Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific  irresponsible lending  practices relating to lender 
behaviour once credit  has been provided. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory practice  
where a business is:
Failing to monitor  a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say:
The OFT considers  that creditors should take appropriate action, including  notifying the borrower of 
the potential risk of an escalating debt, and signposting the borrower to not-for-profit providers  of free 
independent debt advice,  when/if  there  are signs of apparent/possible repayment  difficulties  for 
example, a borrower failing to make minimum required payments or making a number of consecutive 
small/minimum repayments or a borrower seeking to
make repayments on a credit card account using another credit card.  This is particularly important in 
the case  of borrowers  who it is known  - or it is reasonably believed - may lack the mental capacity to 
make financial decisions  about repayments at the time the repayments are due, especially under  
circumstances in which  the borrower or his representatives have specifically requested that this 
should be done.
A symptom  of some  conditions such as bipolar disorder is that the borrower
may engage in unusual spending patterns.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
NatWest continued to provide Mr W with his overdraft after regulation of consumer credit  activities 
had transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. NatWest 
was authorised by the FCA at this time so it was subject to the FCAs  rules in respect  of consumer  
credit activities  from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with.
PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole  or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here is PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit  sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to firms specifically  when carrying out credit related  regulated 
activities. Bearing in mind  the complaint before me, I think the most relevant  sections of CONC here 
are CONC  1 which sets out guidance in relation  to financial difficulties;  CONC 5 which sets out a 
firms obligations in relation  to responsible  lending;  and CONC 6 which sets out a firms obligations  
after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Ref: DRN65579617CONC 1.3G provides  guidance on financial  difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation  to a rule), the following matters, among  others, of 
which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware, may indicate that a customer is in financial 
difficulties:
(1)consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation  to a credit card or store  card;
(2)adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3)outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4)inability to meet  repayments  out of disposable income  or at all, for example,  where there is 
evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer having to borrow 
further to repay existing  debts, or the customer only being able to meet  repayments of debts 
by the disposal  of assets or security;
(5)consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6)agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7)evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body)  with a view to 
entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to seeking  debt counselling
CONC 5 sets out the rules  and guidance in relation to responsible  lending, CONC  6 sets out the 
rules and guidance in relation to Post contractual requirements; and finally CONC 7 sets out the rules 
and guidance in relation  to Arrears, default and recovery (including repossessions).  
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment  between the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance  and 
the rules set out in CONC 5, CONC 6 and CONC  7. As is evident from the following extracts, the 
FCAs CONC rules  specifically note and refer back to sections  of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance on many occasions. For the same  reasons that I didnt set out the relevant passages of 
section 4 of the ILG, I dont propose to set out the sections in CONC 5 which relate to responsible 
lending. Instead Ill focus on what I consider to be the relevant sections  of CONC 6 and CONC 7.  
CONC 6.7.2  R states:
A firm must monitor a customer's  repayment record and take appropriate  action where there are 
signs of actual  or possible repayment difficulties.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.3  G states:
The action referred to in CONC 6.7.2  R should  generally  include:
(1) notifying the customer  of the risk of escalating  debt, additional interest or charges and of 
potential financial  difficulties;  and
[Note: paragraph 6.16 of ILG]
(2) providing contact  details for not-for-profit  debt advice  bodies .
[Note: paragraph 6.2 (box)  of ILG]
CONC also provides guidance to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, this time 
making reference  to the Office of Fair Trading's Debt Collection Guidance  (DCG).
Ref: DRN65579618CONC 7.3.2 G states: 
When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard to its 
obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R states that: 
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
   
CONC 7.3.5G lists some examples of forbearance and due consideration and states:
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing  one or more of the 
following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1)considering  suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges  (for 
example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and is unable to 
meet repayments  as they fall due or is only able to make token repayments,  where in either  
case the level of debt would  continue to rise if interest and charges continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box)  of ILG]
(2)allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a)where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's  repayments to 
an unsustainable  level; or
(b)provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably 
excessive;
(3)accepting token  payments for a reasonable  period  of time in order to allow a customer  to 
recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer  who demonstrates that meeting 
the customer's existing debts would mean not being  able to meet  the customer's  priority  debts 
or other  essential living expenses (such  as in relation to a mortgage,  rent, council  tax, food 
bills and utility bills).
Other relevant publications
The ILG and CONC  set out the regulatory framework  that firms carrying out consumer  credit activities 
have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms.  Im also required to take into 
account any other guidance,  standards, relevant  codes  of practice, and, where appropriate,  what  
I consider to have been good industry practice.
NatWest was a subscriber  to the Lending Standards Boards Lending  Code (the code) and is a current 
subscriber to the Standards of Lending Practice (the standards), which replaced the code in 2016.
Section 9 of the code  relates to Financial  difficulties.  It starts by saying:
137. Subscribers should  be sympathetic and positive  when considering a customers financial 
difficulties. Although there is an onus  on customers to try to help themselves, the first step, when a 
subscriber becomes  aware of a customers financial  difficulties,  should be to try to contact  the 
customer to discuss the matter. This applies  to both personal and micro-enterprise customers.
Ref: DRN65579619138.  Personal customers should be considered to be in financial difficulty  when income  is insufficient 
to cover reasonable  living expenses and meet financial commitments  as they become due. This may 
result from a change in lifestyle, often accompanied by a fall in disposable income and/or increased 
expenditure, such as:
loss of employment;
disability;
serious illness;
relationship breakdown;
death of a partner;
starting a lower paid job;
parental/carer leave;
starting full-time education; and
imprisonment
139.  Financial difficulties may become evident to a subscriber from one or more of the following  
events:
Items repeatedly being returned unpaid due to lack of available funds;
Failing to meet loan repayments or other commitments;
Discontinuation of regular credits;
Notification of some form of insolvency or court proceedings;
Regular requests for increased borrowing or repeated rescheduling of debts;
Making frequent cash withdrawals on a credit card at a non-promotional rate of interest; and
Repeatedly exceeding a credit card or overdraft limit without agreement.
 
It then goes on to talk about  Proactive contact  and says:
141. If, during  the course of a customers account operation,  a subscriber becomes aware via their 
existing systems that the customer may be heading towards financial difficulties, the subscriber  
should contact the customer to outline their approach to financial difficulties  and to encourage the 
customer to contact the subscriber if the customer is worried about  their position. Subscribers should  
also provide  signposts to sources of free, independent money advice. 
In relation to the Standards,  there is a section on Money  Management and paragraph 3 of this 
section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the customer  is not 
exhibiting signs of financial stress and where relevant, offer appropriate support.
There is also a section  on Financial Difficulty. And it says:
1. Firms should have  triggers and processes in place to identify customers  who may be in financial  
difficulty and should act promptly and efficiently to address the situation with the customer. [CONC  7] 
2. Customers identified  as being in financial difficulty should be provided with clear  information  setting 
out the support  available to them and should not be subject to harassment or undue  pressure when 
discussing their problems. [CONC 7] 
3. Firms should  demonstrate an empathetic approach  to the customers situation; listening to and 
acting upon information provided  by the customer  with a view to developing an affordable and 
appropriate solution. 
Ref: DRN6557961104. If an offer of repayment is made via the common financial statement/standard  financial statement,  
this should be used as the basis for pro-rata distribution  amongst creditors covered by the plan. 
[CONC 7] 
5. Firms should  have appropriate policies and procedures  in place to identify and support vulnerable 
customers where this impacts on their ability  to pay. [See also consumer vulnerability] 
6. Customers who are in financial difficulty will, where appropriate, be signposted  to free, impartial 
debt advice. [CONC  7] 
7. Firms should  apply an appropriate level of forbearance, where,  after having  made contact  with the 
customer, it is clear that this would be appropriate for their situation.  [CONC  7] 
8. Where a customer remains engaged with the Firm and maintains their repayment plan, they will not 
be subject to unnecessary contact. 
9. Firms should  consider  freezing or reducing interest and charges when a customer is in financial 
difficulty. [CONC 7]
Ordinarily in cases involving  financial difficulty, Id generally start by considering whether the lender 
was aware, or it ought  reasonably to have been aware, that the borrower  was experiencing  difficulties. 
But I dont need to consider  this matter in this case as it isnt in dispute that NatWest was aware that 
Mr Ws circumstances had changed. 
I say this because the contact notes NatWest itself has provided clearly  show that its credit card team 
received a call from Mr W advising  that he wouldnt be able to make  his payments. The notes record 
that Mr W had 0 free income but that his mother would  be helping him cover his debt. And it looks like 
a repayment plan was agreed  shortly afterwards.
So it seems  to me that NatWest (at least in terms of its credit card department) was aware that Mr W 
had lost his job and that he had no disposable income. And by working  out that  Mr W had no 
disposable income,  I think  that NatWest ought to have realised that hiss circumstances fell squarely 
within paragraphs 138 and 139 of the code. 
Equally I dont consider  it fair and reasonable for NatWest  to argue that its personal banking  team 
wasnt aware of this. As this is the case, Im satisfied that NatWest was aware  that    Mr W was 
experiencing financial difficulty  and this means that I need  to consider whether it NatWest responded  
to these difficulties in a fair and reasonable  manner.
As Ive mentioned in the regulatory  framework  and good  industry practice  section of this decision, 
NatWest had (and still has) a regulatory as well as good industry practice  obligation to exercise 
forbearance in relation to a debt owed by a customer experiencing financial difficulty. 
Im also mindful  that while  NatWests own literature is silent on this matter, it is generally accepted, in 
the industry, that overdraft  facilities are only supposed to be used for occasional or emergency 
borrowing. This is a view shared by the FCA in Consultation Paper 18/42  High-Cost Credit Review:  
Overdrafts consultation  paper and policy  statement (CP18/42). I accept that this was published 
sometime after the period Im looking at. But I do think that it offers  some insight on the FCAs 
perspective on the use of overdrafts. So I do consider it to be of some relevance in this case. 
Paragraph 3.35 of CP 18/42 states:
Overdrafts are intended for short-term or emergency borrowing, but some consumers use them 
repeatedly over a long period of time. This repeat  overdraft use can harm  consumers because  it can 
be an expensive way to borrow, and they can build up problem debt over time.  
Ref: DRN655796111In these circumstances, not only do I think that NatWest ought fairly and reasonably  to have exercised 
forbearance, I also think that ought to have had in mind that the overdraft facility  was only really 
intended to help out with short-term borrowing needs. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ws account transaction history to see how NatWest responded  to finding  out that Mr 
W had lost his job. And in truth, I think its fair to say that NatWest didnt really  react at all to what it 
had been told, or how Mr Ws account  was being managed. 
Mr Ws account  transactions show that NatWest simply continued adding interest and charging 
packaged account fees to his balance. This is despite the fact that the only credits going into the 
account were  small credits to cover the interest, fees and charges being  added in an attempt to avoid 
going over the limit. Equally there seems to have  been  no thought at all given to the fact that Mr Ws 
overdrawn balance wasnt reducing  in any sort of meaningful way. Indeed Mr Ws balance doesnt 
really reduce from around £1,800.00 until March 2017 approaching 3 years after he contacted 
NatWest to explain that hes lost his job.   
Bearing in mind  Mr Ws clearly worsening  position,  I think that NatWest should have  taken action. But 
instead of realising  this and taking steps to help Mr W, as per its regulatory obligation  to provide  a 
customer in financial difficulty with assistance,  NatWest  unfairly and unreasonably added a significant 
amount of interest, fees and packaged account charges to his balance. 
This meant  that Mr W paid NatWest high amounts  of interest  and charges  for the privilege of allowing 
him to continue to hold what,  in my view, due to his notified change  of circumstances, had clearly 
become a wholly unsustainable debt.  And while I, to some extent, accept  that a customer may be 
responsible for ensuring  that they have sufficient funds in their account to meet  their payments, I dont 
think that this means  that its fair and reasonable  to continue  adding charges to an account  that a 
customer clearly cant afford because theyre experiencing financial difficulty.    
Taking all of this into account, I find that NatWest didnt act fairly  and reasonably  towards     Mr W 
when it continued to provide  and charge  Mr W for his overdraft and facility when hed told it as well as 
his account usage ought reasonably to have shown that his debt had become unsustainable because  
he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Im intending to find that NatWest didnt treat Mr W fairly and reasonably in relation  to his overdraft 
from June  2014 onwards.  
Was the Advantage Gold packaged bank account mis-sold to Mr W by NatWest? 
As Mr W has mentioned  it, Ive also considered whether the Advantage  Gold  account  was mis-sold to 
him in 1997.  I dont think that it was and Id like to explain why I think that this is the case.
Firstly, Mr W was switched to the fee-paying  Advantage  Gold account from a free one that hes held 
for a number of years. So I think that he would have known that NatWest did free accounts  (as he had 
one already)  and that he didnt have to have  the packaged one if he didnt want to. In these 
circumstances, I think its more likely  than not that Mr W chose to take the Advantage Gold account 
after being offered a choice.
Mr W says that he was misled into thinking that hed receive unbeatable offers. But Ive seen 
information to suggest that he took a loan with NatWest around  the time he was sold his packaged  
account. And bearing in mind preferential loan rates  was a benefit of the account,  I think its more 
likely than not that he took the account for this benefit and received it. 
Mr W would  also have paid less for his overdraft  as a result of having the Advantage Gold account 
too. So overall I think that Mr W did receive  the benefit that he signed  up for. I accept  that Mr W might, 
with the benefit of hindsight, now believe that he didnt  benefit  from the account as much as hed 
initially hoped to. 
Ref: DRN655796112I say this while especially mindful  of the fact that he doesnt appear to have used the additional 
benefits that went  on to be added to the Advantage Gold package.  But I think that Mr W knew that he 
didnt have to have the packaged account and that he more likely than not knew that he could switch  
back to a free account if thats what he wanted. So I find that NatWest didnt  mis-sell the account  to 
Mr W in the first place and as I result Im satisfied that it doesnt have to refund any of the packaged  
account fees charged prior to June 2014. 
Conclusions
Having carefully considered the questions set out on page one of this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to issue a final decision which  finds that NatWest:
knew that Mr W was in financial difficulty; he wasnt using his borrowing facilities  for their 
intended short-term purpose; and that his overdraft  balance  wasnt reducing.  So NatWest ought 
reasonably to have stepped in and offered assistance to Mr W. NatWest didnt do this and 
instead continued  added high levels  of interest, fees and charges  to Mr Ws account. 
didnt mis-sell  the Advantage Gold packaged bank account to Mr W in 1997.
All of the above leaves me intending to find that NatWest didnt act fairly and reasonably towards  Mr 
W in relation to his overdraft.
Did Mr W lose out because NatWest didnt act fairly and reasonably towards him?
Bearing in mind  NatWests  regulatory obligation  to treat a customer struggling  to repay  credit with 
forbearance, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to continue  adding  the interest, fees 
and charges that it did to Mr Ws overdraft from June 2014. In my view,  NatWest ought fairly  and 
reasonably to have arranged an affordable repayment plan to allow him gradually and affordably 
repay what he owed.    
In these circumstances, I think  that Mr W lost out because  hes had to pay interest and charges that 
shouldnt have been added to his account  balance.  So Im intending to find that Mr W lost out 
because NatWest  didnt treat him fairly  and reasonably.
Fair compensation   what Im intending to tell NatWest to do to put things right  for     Mr W.
Having carefully considered everything, Im intending  to find that it would be fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for NatWest to put things right in the following  way:
rework  Mr Ws current overdraft balance so that all the interest,  packaged  account  fees and any 
other charges applied to it from June 2014 onwards  are removed; 
AND
if an outstanding balance remains  on the overdraft once these adjustments have been made  
NatWest should  contact  Mr W to arrange a suitable repayment  plan for this. It can also backdate 
a default  on Mr Ws credit  file to June  2014  should it consider  it necessary to do so; 
OR (if the effect  of removing all interest fees and charges results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance)
any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr W. If no outstanding  balance 
remains after all adjustments have  been  made then NatWest should  remove all adverse  
information from Mr Ws credit file.
Ref: DRN655796113pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any overpayments  from the date they were made  (if they 
were) to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im minded  to partially uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct National  
Westminster Bank  Plc to put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 23 March 2020 change my mind, thats what Ill tell 
NatWest to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6557961