K820x#14Complaint
Mr S is unhappy because Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage)  has supplied him with a car 
which he believes isnt of satisfactory quality.
Any reference to Advantage also refers to their agents.
Background
In April 2019, Mr S acquired a used car which  he financed through a 36 month hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage.  The cash price  of the car was £5,999.  It was first registered in         
May 2012 and at the point  of supply, it had travelled over 81,000 miles.  
Within a week of acquiring the car, Mr S complained to the dealership that there  was an 
issue with the tracking.  Given how far away Mr S lived, the dealership agreed to cover  the 
cost for the repair. 
At the start of May 2019,  Mr S complained  there were issues  with the wheel bearing, a wiper  
blade and a rattling noise  coming from the dashboard.  The dealership determined the issues 
with the wheel bearing related to minor  blowing from the exhaust and they replaced the 
necessary parts. The wiper blade was replaced  and the rattling noise from the dashboard 
was found to be a loose  screw, which was located and removed. The dealership said they 
didnt consider these  repairs  to be necessary but were carried them out in the interest of 
offering good  customer service to Mr S. Once the repairs  were  complete, Mr S confirmed  to 
Advantage in a phone  call that he was satisfied that the issues had been resolved.
However a few days following the repair, Mr S later complained that there  were  still 
problems. In summary, Mr S said he experienced the following issues  with the car:
-the tracking;
-the exhaust;
-a loose screw in the dashboard; 
-the engine  accelerates more than usual; 
-brakes squeaking; and
-windows vibrating. 
Mr S asked for the car to be repaired or for Advantage to allow him to reject  it. 
Advantage arranged for an independent inspection which was carried out in May 2019. At 
the time of the inspection, the car had travelled  over 82,000 miles. The inspection report  
investigated the issues related to the traction light, loose screw  and the engine  accelerating.
It concluded the issues were cosmetic, the car was roadworthy and that given the nature of 
the faults, taking  into account the age and mileage, it was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply.
Ref: DRN61325262Advantage relied on the findings of the inspection  report when responding to Mr S complaint 
and said given the age and mileage  of the car, it is possible for such  issues to be present 
within a short time after the car had been  supplied. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr S complained to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld for similar reasons as Advantage. He 
believed the car was of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply so it wouldnt be fair to say 
Advantage was responsible for repairing the car. Mr S disagreed. He said he had sorted  out 
some of the problems but the loose  screw  remains and the noise from the wheel bearing is 
getting louder.  
In June 2020, I issued my provisional  decision and I said I intended to partially uphold Mr S 
complaint for the following reasons:
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement   so I can consider a 
complaint relating to it. Advantage is also the supplier  of the goods under this type of 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about the supply  and the quality or Mr S car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods,  there  is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is satisfactory.  To be 
considered satisfactory,  the goods would need  to meet the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things  like the age and mileage 
at the time of supply and the cars  history. 
In this case, Advantage supplied Mr S with a car that was seven years old and had travelled 
over 81,000 miles. So it is reasonable to expect that parts of the car are likely to have 
already suffered significant wear and tear meaning  it might  need repairs and/or maintenance 
sooner than a brand-new  car or one that was less travelled. Mr S paid significantly less for 
the car than had it been brand new. 
The tracking
Within days of acquiring the car, Mr S reported  issues with the tracking. I dont think  a 
reasonable person would expect such issues with a car so soon after it was supplied. I 
believe this was a fault and Im not satisfied  the car was of satisfactory quality  at the time of 
the supply because of this. I would expect Advantage to put things  right and I can see they 
have done so. I say this because Advantage paid £30 to Mr S to cover the cost of getting the 
tracking fixed which I consider to be a fair and reasonable remedy. 
Mr S later complained the traction light flashes but it can only be seen when its dark.  During 
the independent inspection, the engineer was unable to replicate the issue  and the traction 
light couldnt be seen.  As there is insufficient  evidence of the issue, Im not persuaded there
there is a fault with the traction  light.
Ref: DRN61325263The exhaust
The dealership said the issue with the wheel bearing related to minor blowing from the 
exhaust. They said they didnt consider this to be a necessary repair, but they did so to 
satisfy Mr S. I havent been  provided with a copy of the job cards related to this repair  or any 
further evidence,  so its difficult to say whether this repair was necessary or not. However I 
wouldnt expect parts of the exhaust would  need to be replaced so soon after Mr S acquired 
the car. On balance,  I believe  there  was a fault and I dont believe the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the time of the supply and I would expect Advantage to put things right,  which is 
what happened here. Advantage carried out a repair to fix the problem at no cost to Mr S.
A loose  screw in the dashboard 
Mr S complained about a loose item, suspected  to be a screw, was rolling  around  in the 
dashboard which was making  a noise. The dealership said they found  and removed the 
screw during the repair in May 2019.
I havent been provided with job cards but according to Advantage, the loose screw was 
located and removed. However the independent inspection  report makes reference  to there 
being a rattle from the dashboard which sounds  like a small metal  object  moving. It said it 
could be heard when going  over speed  bumps, accelerating and braking.  Mr S has also 
provided evidence  of a quotation to fix this issue following  an inspection. This would  suggest  
that the repair carried out by the dealership wasnt successful and the screw remains.
While I believe  this issue was present at the time of supply, Im not persuaded it meant  the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality of the time of supply. I say this because while I appreciate  
the loose screw must be irritating for Mr S, I consider it to be a minor problem because  it 
doesnt have a bearing on the overall  performance of the car which is seven years old and 
travelled over 81,000 miles. 
The engine accelerates more than usual
Mr S complained that the engine accelerates  more than usual especially when using the 
window switch. He said he was told by a third-party garage that this could be due to the 
battery not producing enough power.  At the time of the inspection, the engineer  tried to 
replicate the issue  by carrying out an alternator charging test because  the symptoms  would 
be the same  as a low charging  rate or battery issues.  However  the report  doesnt conclude 
there was a problem  with the battery. 
More recently, Mr S has provided  an invoice from a third-party garage, which  says the 
engine loses  power when the air conditioning and lights are on. The battery was replaced 
which suggests this resolved  the problem. On balance,  I believe it is likely the issue  with the 
battery was present at the time of supply  however  I dont  think  it wouldve rendered  the car 
Ref: DRN61325264of unsatisfactory  quality.  I say this because the change of a battery  is part of the general 
maintenance of a car, especially for one of this age and mileage. 
Other issues
Lastly, I know Mr S has mentioned a couple of other  issues  such as the brakes squeaking  
and the windows vibrating. Invoices provided  by Mr S shows the brakes pads and wiper 
blades were changed in January 2020. Given the age of the car and the number of miles 
travelled since its supply, I would expect the brakes  may need to be replaced sooner than a 
car of less age and mileage. There is insufficient  evidence that these additional  issues  were 
faults with the car which would make it of unsatisfactory  quality  at the time of supply. 
Compensation
As explained above, I believe  the faults  concerning  the exhaust and the tracking meant  the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of supply therefore resulting  in breach of 
contract. Im not persuaded these repairs were  simply a gesture of goodwill made by the 
dealership. Where there is a breach of contract, I would expect Advantage to offer 
compensation. As Mr S made time and effort  for repairs to be carried out as a result of these  
faults, I believe Advantage  should pay £150 to him for the inconvenience  caused.
Summary 
Based on the faults with the exhaust  and tracking, I believe there was a breach  of contract 
meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the time of supply. However Im satisfied 
Advantage has rectified these faults at no cost to Mr S. 
In relation to the other issues as mentioned above, there is insufficient evidence these 
issues were faults which  meant  the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality. Therefore I dont intend 
to ask Advantage to do anything further  to put things  right apart from paying £150 
compensation to Mr S for reasons explained above.
Response to my provisional decision
Advantage responded but said they had no comments to make. In summary, Mr S said 
although he was glad for the compensation, it wasnt enough because he will have to pay for 
the loose screw to be removed. He outlined his communication  with Advantage and the 
dealership and the delays  caused.  He said despite  his requests, they failed to confirm 
whether the car had warranty. Lastly, Mr S questioned the cause of the faults and asked why 
had the car passed its MOT and considered to be roadworthy if there were problems. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61325265Firstly I understand Mr S is disappointed  with my findings. However as Im not a car 
mechanic or an expert in car engineering, I cant comment on the cause of the faults relating 
to the tracking,  the exhaust or the other  issues reported. When reviewing this complaint, Ive 
considered the evidence  provided and where  theres  a dispute, Ive based  my decision on 
what I thinks more likely  to have happened in light of the evidence.
For each issue raised  about  the car, Ive explained  whether I considered  it to be a fault, 
whether this meant the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  or whether it was due to general  
wear and tear given  the age and mileage of the car. As no further evidence or information  
has been provided, my findings remain the same  as explained in my provisional decision.  
Its worth  explaining  that a MOT  test certifies whether a car is roadworthy based  on road 
safety and environmental standards and Mr S car had passed this test. When considering 
this complaint, Ive considered whether Mr S car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied as part of a finance  agreement. In reaching  my decision Ive considered  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 as explained above.  These considerations differ from the 
requirements of a MOT test.
Im unable to comment on the details  of the warranty however Advantage has provided  a 
document which shows the car had six months warranty  at the time it was supplied  to Mr S. I 
will arrange  for a copy  to be sent to Mr S for reference but if he wants  more details about  it, 
he will need  to speak  to Advantage directly.
While I thank Mr S for responding, I dont consider what he has said changes my opinion.  
Therefore, the outcome remains  the same as detailed in my provisional  decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr S complaint.
To put things right, Advantage  Finance Ltd should  pay £150 compensation to Mr S for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6132526