K821x#15Complaint
Mr W has complained about the advice given  by Dobson & Hodge Limited to transfer his 
three personal pension  plans into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Background
Mr Ws pension  plans were reviewed by Dobson  & Hodge. They  wrote  to Mr W on 
1 December 2014 outlining his current plans and various options.  At the time, Mr W had 
three pension plans.
Dobson & Hodge sent an email to Mr W in July 2015; it proposed a consolidation of his 
pensions. It referred to the new pensions freedoms that were in place and they had been 
looking to use a provider  with a low charge option.  A comparison was made with the 
performance of a portfolio and the performance of a fund in one of Mr Ws existing plans. 
Over the period, the portfolio would  have grown  by an additional £700 compared  to the 
existing fund.
Following this, a meeting  was held on 11 September 2015.  A fact-find recorded the 
following:
Mr W was 62 and earning  £33,000 a year.
His intended retirement age was 65.
He had no liabilities.
He held pensions  worth approximately £140,000.
He didnt hold any other investments.
His attitude to risk was assessed as Cautious.
The meeting  notes recorded the performance and risks of the Standard  Life pension were 
discussed. And that Mr W confirmed his acceptance. The discharge forms for the existing 
plans were completed and signed  on the same  day. 
A suitability  report was produced on 22 September 2015. It recommended all three plans 
were transferred into a Standard Life pension plan invested in the Managed Portfolio Service  
3 (MPS3). The report said MPS3 aimed  to achieve cash plus 3% a year returns over a 36 
month rolling  period. 
The charges  were listed as 1.98% ongoing  including 0.5% a year ongoing  advice charges. A 
discounted initial charge of £1,000 was applied  for the initial advice.
The comparison of charges recorded  the lowest and highest  portfolio charges of the ceding 
schemes compared to the charge applied by the new provider. This excluded  the on-going 
adviser charges.
A Standard  Life plan was set up on 25 September 2015. The three  personal  pensions were 
transferred into it and a regular contribution  of about £260 a month  was set up.
In June 2018, Dobson & Hodge wrote to Mr W. They explained the fund managers had not 
performed well in challenging conditions for these types of portfolio. They also provided  
annuity quotes for Mr W.
Ref: DRN63610742Following a meeting  in July 2018,  Dobson  & Hodge wrote to Mr W. The letter  confirmed that 
they had been disappointed  with the performance  of the MPS3  portfolio and were looking  at 
advising clients to come out of it. A further  letter  was generated suggesting a transfer to 
another provider.
Mr W complained  to Dobson & Hodge about the advice. Following this, Mr W transferred his 
pension to a different provider in early 2019.
An adjudicator investigated the complaint.  Her discussions with Mr W concluded  that he 
wasnt sure about his preference to access  his pensions.  
In September  2015, Mr W was age 62. His intended retirement age was 65, which  meant he 
was at least three years away from taking  his pension income. He planned  to work for at 
least the next three years and did not need  his tax-free cash.  The risk questionnaire 
determined Mr W to be a cautious investor.
So based  on his circumstances  and attitude  to risk, the adjudicator  thought Mr W should 
have been advised to keep his existing pensions. A fund switch  could have been 
recommended to match his attitude to risk. There was no compelling evidence to suggest 
why a pension  transfer into a SIPP was essential at that time.
Furthermore, the suitability report was not clear in the comparison of charges. The future 
charges reported  in the comparison did not include the ongoing  adviser charge of 0.5%. 
Also, the details  of charges for the ceding schemes  were not accurate. The report  provided 
the lowest and the highest charge of the ceding  scheme but not the actual  charge. 
The adjudicator referred  to the regulators 2008  report on Quality of advice on pension  
switching. She considered Mr W was transferred in to a pension plan with greater flexibility  
of investments and benefits but he did not require any of these. Also,  taking into account the 
initial and ongoing  adviser charge the new solution  was a more  expensive proposition. 
She upheld  the complaint. 
Dobson & Hodge did not agree. They said if they had recommended that Mr W stay within  
his existing scheme, Mr W would still have to pay a fee. And the existing plans were  not 
suitable so action was need. They also said the complaint was about performance, which  
was not a valid complaint.
The adjudicator considered the arguments. However,  she said that suitable  action  would 
have to recommend  a fund switch in line with Mr Ws attitude  to risk. And if that 
recommendation warranted  a fee, they should  have charged it as long as they were 
transparent with Mr W. 
An agreement was not reached  and the complaint was passed  to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63610743Mr W was approaching retirement and asked  Dobson  & Hodge for advice about his existing 
pension plans. The advice  he was given was to transfer to a new product allowing him to use 
the new pension  freedoms. The portfolio selected  was also in line with his cautious attitude  
to investment risk. However, the new product  and portfolio was more expensive than Mr Ws 
existing plans. 
The adjudicator explained that, in her view, Mr W did not need  the flexibility  offered by the 
new plan and Dobson & Hodge should  have  considered switching into suitable funds with 
the existing providers. In reaching this conclusion the adjudicator  referred to the regulators 
review of pension  switching advice from 2008.
I agree  with the adjudicator. Although there have been many  changes to the options 
available for pensions since the report was issued by the regulator about  pension switching, 
the conclusions  are still relevant. Mr W did not need  the extra flexibility until he actually 
retired. He was paying higher fees for a service  he did not need at that time.
I accept Mr W would have had to pay a fee for the advice  he received. But if suitable advice 
had been given, the fees should have  been clearly explained at the time. 
Dobson & Hodge has also said poor performance is not a valid complaint. Poor performance  
itself may not mean a complaint is upheld. It is the cause of the complaint in this case. If 
suitable advice  had been given, I would not make  an award.  However, I do not consider the 
advice was suitable. Charges are an important part of the performance of an investment. 
The impact  of those  charges has to be considered when giving advice. I am not satisfied the 
advice was suitable. The new plan had to perform  significantly better than the existing plans 
to overcome the additional charges. 
If suitable advice  had been  given,  I am satisfied  Mr W would have followed that advice. He 
would have kept his existing pension  plans. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr W would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Ws circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Dobson & Hodge do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Dobson  & Hodge must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ws investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Dobson & Hodge should  pay into Mr Ws pension plan to increase 
its value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Ref: DRN63610744Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Dobson & Hodge  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ws pension  plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ws actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax in retirement. Mr W is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer in 
retirement, so the reduction should equal the current basic  rate of tax. However,  
Mr W would have been able to take a tax free lump sum,  so the reduction should  be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr W £100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr W by the unsuitable 
advice.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
growth
Standard 
Life SIPPtransferredfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
transfer to 
Standard Lifedate 
transferred  
away from 
Standard LifeThe loss 
should be 
revalued or 
brought into 
line with the 
growth  in 
Mr Ws new 
pension plan 
from the date 
transferred to 
the date of my 
decision
Simple interest should be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross  a year from the date of 
my award to the date of settlement. Income  tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
Dobson & Hodge deducts income  tax from the interest  it should  tell Mr W how much has 
been taken off. Dobson & Hodge should  give Mr W a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN63610745To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Dobson & 
Hodge should use the monthly average  rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Ws risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position.  It does  not mean that Mr W 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr W could have  obtained from investments suited to 
his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Dobson & Hodge  Limited  should  pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Dobson & Hodge should provide details of its calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W either  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2020.
Roy Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6361074