K821x#15copy of provisional decision
Mr and Mrs J complain that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold them a monthly mortgage premium  
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  in 1994.
background
The PPI was sold in 1994 and covered both Mr and Mrs J. To be clear,  there was only one sale that 
took place (in 1994) and amendments to the policy  were made in 1997 and 2005. In 1997 an 
amendment was made to the PPI to increase  the monthly benefit,  and remove Mrs J from the policy. 
In 2005 the policy was amended again to increase the benefit.
Our adjudicator thought the policy was not suitable for Mrs J as she wasnt eligible  for the policy. So 
she thought HSBC  should refund the premiums  paid on the policy between  1994 and September 
1997  so until Mrs J was removed from the policy. Our adjudicator thought  the policy was suitable  
from this point onwards so didnt think HSBC needed  to refund any more than this. HSBC  has agreed 
with this, so I wont look at whether the policy was suitable for Mrs J from 1994-1997.
Mr and Mrs J do not agree  with our adjudicator so this case has come to me for a decision.  I have 
considered both HSBC  and Mr and Mrs Js arguments very carefully.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case. I intend to say that HSBC doesnt need to do more  
than it has already offered to resolve  this complaint.
HSBC had to make it clear  the PPI was optional, and get Mr and Mrs Js consent before adding the 
PPI to their account.  HSBC  hasnt been  able to provide any paperwork from the sale of the policy. I 
dont think this is surprising considering the length  of time since the sale.
Without further evidence to support what Mr and Mrs J have told us about  being  told if they didnt take 
out the insurance, their application was less likely to be approved, I consider it more likely  that they 
chose to take the PPI, knowing it was optional.
I think  its more  likely  than not that HSBC recommended  the PPI, so it had to ensure that it was a 
suitable recommendation. HSBC  has accepted that it was not suitable for Mrs J from 1994-1997 so I 
will not look at this any further. I have checked however that the PPI was right for Mr J as he was the 
sole policy holder from 1997 onwards. And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  
I think  that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems  to have had a need  for the cover.
Mr J says he wouldve been  entitled to some sick pay, redundancy pay and death in service pay. Mr 
and Mrs J also say they had some savings. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this, and for 
longer than his full sick pay wouldve  paid out for. The PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months and 
wouldve protected  Mr and Mrs J against the risk of Mr J being unable  to make his mortgage 
repayments  the consequences of which could be serious.
Having the PPI wouldve allowed them to use their savings to cover  other necessary  expenses  at 
what couldve  been a difficult time. So I still think they couldve  found the policy useful.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think its likely  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have  been useful for them if something went  wrong.  It also looks like it was 
Ref: DRN64351812affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the 
cover.
Which means  HSBC  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J for 
the sale of the policy. 
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because:
HSBC got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have  told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr and Mrs J, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has basically paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
HSBC will refund the PPI premiums plus interest of the PPI from when it was taken  out in 1994, until 
Mrs J was removed from the policy in 1997  if it has not done so already.
HSBC Bank Plc also has to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I wont award any 
additional compensation.
Both parties now have until the date set out above to provide me with new information and/or 
arguments before I consider  the complaint again for a final decision.
Ref: DRN6435181