K820x#14complaint
Mr E and Miss B say they werent fully reimbursed  after making a claim on their breakdown 
insurance policy. As the policy  is underwritten by Acromas Insurance Company Limited, Ill 
refer to Acromas and not the breakdown firm throughout this decision.  
background
After the car was inspected by a technician  at the roadside, he told Mr E and Miss B that the 
cars ignition barrel needed to be replaced.  The mechanic at their local garage told Acromas  
that a barrel  that matched the original one could be made, but that would take two weeks. Or 
a manufacturers replacement barrel (that came with new keys) could be bought. Mr E 
preferred the second option,  and Acromas authorised it. 
Mr E said when the new keys arrived they were solid plastic and didnt have the chips  in 
them that were needed  to start the car. So the mechanic took a chip from one of the original 
keys and put it into a third key (which was able to have a chip inserted). Mr E wanted 
Acromas to supply a similar key for £100  - or a barrel  the other old key matched  for £75.
Acromas said the manufacturer had confirmed the new barrel came with two keys that only 
needed coding. It also said Mr E only told the mechanic about the second old key he had 
after the initial repairs had been  done. It said the mechanic would then have charged extra 
for any other  work.  And in any event, it said the car wasnt in a broken down state  at that 
point, so Acromas wasnt liable for any further  costs under the policy.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr E and Miss Bs complaint. She thought Acromas had 
acted reasonably. She said it seemed  the chips in the new keys just needed coding  and if 
the mechanic  thought the new parts  were  incomplete, he should  have  contacted Acromas or 
the supplier of the manufacturers part at the time.  
Mr E didnt accept the investigators view. He sent in photos  of the new (solid  plastic) keys 
and a link to the ordered part. From  these details, Acromas said it seemed the mechanic had 
used an after-market  part (costing £7) rather than the part it had paid for, which cost £174. 
After consulting two dealership garages,  Acromas confirmed that the part it had authorised 
would have come  from the official parts supplier with two keys (with chips for coding).  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
Under the policy, insured parts that need  to be replaced or repaired in order to enable  the 
car to be driven are covered. Acromas agreed  to cover the part that was broken (the barrel,  
which came  with new keys). As far as Acromas was aware, the mechanic had ordered the 
replacement part it had authorised and had charged  Mr E and Miss B for it, so it was happy 
to reimburse them.  When  it found  out that something had gone wrong, as the mechanic was 
no longer available, Acromas wasnt able to clarify  the matter with him. So it cant  be sure 
what happened. But I dont think theres  evidence that Acromas was at fault. 
Ref: DRN68074652I think it was reasonable  for Acromas to conclude that the keys the mechanic gave to Mr E 
were not part of the order it thought  hed placed. It isnt clear  whether the mechanic ordered 
the wrong part, or whether the wrong  part (or a faulty part) was supplied  in error. Acromas 
thinks thats unlikely.  But if it happened, Id have expected the mechanic to query the 
situation with the supplier. I think he dealt with part of the repair in a very unusual way, rather 
than querying the chips  for the new keys and the recoding problem.
Acromass technical advisor  says the photos  of the keys Mr E supplied dont help to explain 
what happened, which I think is a fair point. They seem to be images of inexpensive, plastic  
keys. Presumably these  were given to Mr E by the mechanic, and it may well be the case  
that a chip couldnt be fitted into a key of that type. It seems  the details on the link Mr E 
provided are for a part that isnt suitable for the make and model of his car. But Acromas  
authorised a new part that was suitable  (including  keys with chips that could have  been  
coded) that cost it £174. So I dont think it can be blamed  for the keys shown in the images.   
The mechanic replaced the broken part  the barrel - and gave  Mr E and Miss B a working  
key. Acromas paid for the new part, plus the mechanics labour charge. I think  it discharged 
its duty to them under the policy. I dont think it was responsible for the mechanics actions. I 
understand why Mr E and Miss B are unhappy about not having two keys that start the car. 
But as I dont think that was Acromass  fault,  I dont think it acted unreasonably in declining 
to pay for another key (or another  ignition barrel)  for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 August  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6807465