K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  their home insurer Aviva Insurance Limited in respect 
of a claim they made to it in 2008 where faulty  repairs were completed.
 
background
There was a leak from under the kitchen floor at Mr and Mrs Ws property in 2008. Aviva  
accepted the claim and undertook repairs. The family stayed in their damaged  home for a 
time but then moved into alternative accommodation. They returned home in summer 2009, 
but in March 2010 the repairs failed. They had to move out again. When they returned  home  
in 2011 further damage  occurred to the newly reinstated  dcor  of the property. This was 
eventually resolved by Aviva, but not until 2013.  
At least  as early as 2011 Mr and Mrs W began  complaining to Aviva. Aviva acknowledged 
their complaint but did not issue a final response.
In 2016 the repairs failed  again. Aviva undertook further reinstatement  work  and the family 
had to move  out again. Aviva issued a final response which  said that it would pay £2,500 
compensation to Mr and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W noted that this offer made  no reference to 
what had happened  in the earlier years  of the claim, pre-2016. They complained to us. 
Our investigator issued  some findings, but when the complaint  couldnt  be resolved it came  
to me to consider. At this time Aviva offered to pay £750 compensation to Mr and Mrs W for 
the upset theyd been caused before 2016.  I reviewed matters  but did not think that was fair 
and reasonable.  I shared my views  on what I felt the fair and reasonable outcome was with 
both parties. I said:
I dont intend to go into a lot of detail about  what happened here. But I do think  Aviva let 
Mr and Mrs W down  and they suffered distress  and inconvenience as a result.  I note Aviva 
has recently offered  £750 for the upset which occurred prior to 2016  on account of its 
failings. Im not persuaded that is reasonable in the circumstances  I think  it should pay 
£1,500. Aviva has also offered £2,500 for upset  caused post-2016. I am satisfied that is 
reasonable.
Ive taken account of what  Mr and Mrs W have told us they went  through prior to 2016. Ive 
noted everything theyve said. Ive set out some  very brief key facts below:
The claim occurred in 2008, given its nature it should probably  have  all been resolved in 
around six months, with the family spending a short time living in alternative accommodation. 
As it was it lasted around 18 months, the family  lived in uncomfortable  conditions  for ten of 
those months and away from home for a further eight.
The damage then reoccurred in March 2010. It was accepted the initial repairs  had failed. In 
October 2010 the family had to move out of their home again. They  were  away  for another 
eight months. Further  damage then also occurred  and it was 2013 before matters  were, 
everyone thought,  finally  resolved. 
In very short  terms the first stage of the claim in 2008 should have been  much more 
compressed and the second stage, everything  that happened in 2010  2013,  should have 
been completely  avoided.  I accept that finding  out in 2010 that the repairs had failed was 
extremely distressing for Mr and Mrs W. Im satisfied  that between 2008  and 2013 Aviva did 
Ref: DRN64698242not handle their claim as well as it should  have done, and that they suffered markedly  as a 
result. I think Aviva  should pay £1,500  compensation in this respect.  
I think it stands to reason  that the post-2016 compensation is of a higher value  everything 
for Mr and Mrs W, at this point was compounded.  The claim should have been resolved the 
first time around  but now they were faced with those repairs  having failed again, for a 
second time. This was devastating. Not least because the nature of the damage and needed 
repairs meant they had to move out of their home again. I do think  though that when Aviva  
responded to Mr and Mrs W in 2018  it accepted  the magnitude of the upset this latest round 
of repairs had caused. In terms of the compensation awards usually made by this service, 
£2,500 is a significant sum. I think it is fair and reasonable compensation for the upset 
caused during  this period.
Aviva said it accepted my findings. Mr and Mrs W said they were still somewhat 
disappointed by them. They said they wanted  to be sure Id considered  the fall Mr W had 
during 2008 when theyd  remained in their damaged home. They noted that I felt the 
situation in 2016 was compounded by the upset that had gone before, so felt the same could 
be said of the separate  incidents which had occurred during 2008   2013 (each being more  
upsetting than the last). That being the case they felt the sum of £1,500 would result  in quite 
small amounts if split proportionately  through the 2008  2013  period. And, they said, if the 
total of £4,000 was considered over the whole  period, that would amount to just £2 a day. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that this has been  a very upsetting and frustrating period for Mr and Mrs W. I accept 
they have been through  a lot  most of which could and should  have  been  avoided. I can 
assure them that Ive taken into account everything they told us.
In respect of Mr Ws fall, I accept the home  was uncomfortable  to live in and that the family 
moved out in October 2018  but I havent seen that prior to that the home  was 
uninhabitable. That said, I accept the fall occurred and that Mr W believes  it was a result  of 
Avivas poor/incomplete repairs. But due to the timing of my considering this complaint, I 
have to bear in mind  that I cant be sure of exactly what happened or whose fault it was. 
It is always more difficult to assess a complaint when  a lot of time has passed  since  the 
events occurred which are at the heart  of the matter. Here Ive taken  what  I think  is a fair 
approach to determining what Aviva  should  do to put things right by bearing in mind  
Mr and Mrs Ws side of the story, set against some key facts which, by themselves evidence  
some upset was likely caused, and not forgetting that Avivas position cant be fully 
established due to the passage of time. Ive also taken into account our guidelines  for 
compensation and amounts we award in similar  circumstances.
On that note we dont  usually break  events  down and apply  compensation to each separate 
part, in the way Mr and Mrs W have  alluded to. Or at a daily rate. Rather we usually look at 
things as a whole. Here, because  of the way the complaint has come before me, Ive had to 
look at the pre 2016, and post 2016 upset, separately. But I cant  say it would be fair to look 
at the 2008  2013 activity in that way because it wouldnt be in line with our usual approach. 
Ref: DRN64698243Whilst Ive reviewed everything,  I remain satisfied that £1,500  compensation for the upset 
caused in 2008  2013 is fair and reasonable. As is the offer Aviva made of £2,500 
compensation for the later upset caused  when repairs failed again in 2016.  I appreciate  this 
has been a long road for Mr and Mrs W and they may still feel that Aviva should pay them  
more. But I do think the outcome  Ive set out is fair and I hope  that the finality this decision 
brings will afford them some solace, and to be able to finally put all of this behind  them.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs W a further 
£1,500 compensation (in addition to the £2,500 its offered).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 March 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6469824