K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs V bought the policy  in 2004 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs V. The benefit was split so Mr V would have 
received 75% and Mrs V would have received 25% in the event of a successful claim for 
accident, sickness, or unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to 
repay the relevant percentage of £319.82  a month towards Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £19.40  a month.  
At the time,  Mr V was employed as a welder. He told us he was not entitled to any sick pay 
and didnt have  any other means  of repaying their mortgage should he be unable to work 
other than a life insurance policy he held. Mr V has said he had three  medical conditions  at 
the time of the sale. 
Mrs V was employed as cook. She told us she was entitled to 12 months full sick pay. Mrs V 
has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in 2004 and 
Mr and Mrs V took out a further advance in 2006.
Mr and Mrs Vs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Vs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs V 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Vs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs V about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs V 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN65841632The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs V received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr and Mrs V disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Vs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs V arranged  a further advance  on their mortgage after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN65841633The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Vs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. 
Ref: DRN65841634key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs V with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs V sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs V, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs V 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs V 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs V know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
The sale took place  a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need  to decide  what I think  is most  likely  to have happened 
when the PPI was sold.  
Over the years, weve seen a number of Halifax cases involving various  methods of sales 
from around the same period Mr and Mrs V would have been  sold their PPI. Using  what  I 
know generally of Halifaxs sales practices at the time, I think  its more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs V would have been given  an option  to take out the PPI and that Halifax would have 
gained their consent before adding it to their credit card account. Ive seen a copy  of their 
mortgage offer, which I think they would have seen  before the policy started  which describes 
it as optional. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs V knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale, but Mr and Mrs V disagree. As giving advice 
puts more responsibility  on Halifax, in fairness  to Mr and Mrs V, Ive considered  the case on 
the basis that advice was given.
Ref: DRN65841635This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs V with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs V. The adviser had information about some of Mr and Mrs Vs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application and there are some details about Mr Vs 
pre-existing medical conditions on screenshots provided by Halifax. But, although it appears 
Halifax tried to establish whether Mr and Mrs V had a need for the policy  by asking  
questions about  their wider circumstances  such  as any health issues  I dont think  it did 
enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, I cant  see any evidence that Halifax 
asked Mr and Mrs V about how much sick pay they were entitled to. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs V given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs V, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs V met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs V had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Vs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr and Mrs V were  not working for an extended  period of time  even  allowing  for the 
employee benefits Mrs V says she was entitled to. Mr V was the main wage earner 
and would not have received any sick pay if he was unable to work due to illness  and 
his redundancy  benefits were likely to be limited. Mr and Mrs V didnt have  any 
savings they could fall back on if Mr V could not work. So, the policy  would have 
helped Mr and Mrs V manage the consequences if either of them were unable to 
work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs V.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs V. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Vs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And Mrs V hasnt told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  her ability to claim.
-While  Mr V has told us about  ongoing  medical conditions  he had from around 1998 
onwards, I still think Mr V could have  found  the policy useful in his circumstances. I 
say this because  Mr V has said that they were managed  with medication and he 
doesnt appear to have  needed  any extended period of time off work for them around 
the time the policy  was sold. Its also its clear a discussion about  Mr Vs conditions  
took place with the adviser at the time of sale, so I think its more  likely than not they 
decided the policy  still could  have been  useful to them.
Ref: DRN65841636-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition and the fact the policy would  only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 24 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances, including Mrs Vs employers sickness and 
redundancy provisions and the limits to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs V be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs V sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs V were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs V were  unable to work through accident,  sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs V 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr and Mrs V agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs V Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs V all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Vs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Vs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Vs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN65841637-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs V about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Vs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs V have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs V? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs V suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs V. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs V suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs V would have still taken out the policy, had Halifax  done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs V, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs V have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs V would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs V say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs V had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Ref: DRN65841638As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs V were  given about  the cost was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the benefit, limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  
Im not persuaded Halifax made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs V would get back in return  in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Vs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs V thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or substantive symptoms 
that Mr and Mrs V knew about or ought  to have known about  before the start date of 
the policy and which recurred within 12 months of the start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs V werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs V be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs V pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs V from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs V were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mrs V wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  
Mrs V didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  
Ref: DRN65841639Although Mr V says he had medical conditions when  the PPI was taken out and the policy  
wouldnt have provided cover had he needed  time off work because  of these conditions, I 
dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put him off agreeing to it. As I 
explained above, Mr V says the conditions were  all controlled with medication  and he hasnt 
given any indication that they caused  him to take time off of work closer to when the policy 
was sold. Halifax took down the details  of some of his conditions,  so its seems more  likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs V discussed the pre-existing  medical  condition  exclusion with the 
adviser and decided to take the policy. And I havent  seen any evidence to suggest  Mr V 
wouldve been caught by any of the other  significant  exclusions. So I still think Mr and Mrs V 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs V might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs V from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs V, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs V had known they could  only claim for disability if they were not only unable to 
do both their own jobs or any similar work,  but also any work which their experiences, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do, it might have played into their thinking 
about what they would have done.  And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  
although its possible they may not have been  overly concerned given  that if Mr and Mrs V 
were unable (through disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would 
be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs V that any claim  they made would be limited  to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but Mr V didnt have  any other means to fall back on. 24 months  was a longer period than 
Mrs V would have received full sick pay for, and her statutory redundancy entitlement  was 
also significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs V would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs V be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mrs Vs sick pay or redundancy money 
for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs V would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs V were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs V would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN658416310Mr and Mrs Vs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs V would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Vs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs V found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs V believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs V in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs V compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs V think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs V, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN658416311Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Vs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs V and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs V in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6584163