K822xcomplaint
Miss C complains that Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited gave her very poor service when 
she made a claim on her motor insurance policy and needed to have  her car repaired.
background 
Miss Cs car was damaged in August 2018.  Admirals approved repairer  (firm  A) had 
completed the repairs by October 2018. Miss C told Admiral in January 2019 that electrical 
faults with the car meant it wasnt driveable.  She thought that was due to the accident or the 
repairs. The car went back  to firm A, and it sent the car to a main dealer. The garage issued 
its report in March 2019. Based on that, Admiral  said the electrical faults werent due to the 
accident or the repairs. Miss C didnt accept that the garages report  was conclusive. She 
wanted Admiral to pay for further work.
Before the report  was issued, Miss C had already complained to Admiral  about its poor 
service. That included  the lack of updates from it, the delay in repairing the car fully from 
August 2018 and the attitude of firm As engineer. She said shed been without a car for a 
month in January 2019. She had high telephone costs from chasing  Admiral and the garage. 
Miss C also said shed  lost income by having  to refuse work, as she had no transport. 
Admiral paid Miss C £595 compensation. That included sums towards telephone and taxi 
costs, the loss of use of her car for several days and £200  for trouble and upset. Admiral 
said it would  look at any evidence Miss C supplied of her loss of earnings. And it said it was 
constantly chasing the main dealer for progress. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Cs complaint.  He thought  Admiral  had offered her a 
fair sum for her transport  and phone calls and its poor contact. And he noted that it was 
willing to look at her loss of earnings. But he thought  it should pay her more for trouble  and 
upset. He thought £500  better reflected the inconvenience shed faced.
The investigator noted that Admiral  hadnt  replied  to issues Miss C raised in March 2018  for 
three months. He said it hadnt advised her even then about getting her car back. Nor had it 
liaised with the main  dealer about  it. He said Miss C had to get an independent engineers  
view, as the garages report was inconclusive. The engineer said the electrical issues  
werent related  to the accident or repairs. But he noted the amount of time the car was idle 
during the initial  repairs  and with the main  dealer.  He thought  that led to the auxiliary  and 
main batteries falling  below the standard limits.   
The investigator thought Admiral should replace or rectify  the batteries. He thought  they had 
deteriorated whilst the car was in its care and control. He took into account that firm A said it 
knew the battery was low when it finished  the repairs.
Admiral agreed to pay the extra sum for distress and inconvenience.  But it said it needed  
more time to consider the battery issues. It later said it had contacted  Miss Cs engineer. It 
said hed changed  his initial view. That was after Admiral gave him evidence  that the battery 
had low voltage before  the initial repairs. The engineer said that when  the car was returned 
to firm A in January 2019  the battery  / electrical issues should have been rejected as 
unrelated to the accident.   
The investigator said the car didnt need  to be taken to the main  dealer, yet it was sent there, 
where it deteriorated. Admiral said the delay there was irrelevant, as the battery was already 
Ref: DRN67746652dead. Admiral was unaware of that at the time, as firm A hadnt told Admirals engineer.  
Admiral said it had told Miss C it didnt think the electrical issues  were  accident-related early 
in February 2019.  It also told her it wouldnt cover the cost of further diagnostic  work. Admiral 
said it relented because  Miss C objected so strongly. That led to the car being with the 
garage for along  time.  It said it should  have been firmer in its initial  stance.         
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
I think Admiral  dealt  fairly with Miss Cs service issues. So only the problem arising  from the 
battery fault remains. 
Firm A can show  the battery had already failed when it did its initial diagnostic checks. So its 
clear the problem was present before that. Miss Cs engineer agrees that the electrical faults 
werent accident related and that the battery  was failing before any repairs  were done. 
I think firm A should have told Admirals engineer about the battery fault.  It could have done 
so initially or when Miss C brought the car back with electrical failings in January 2019. I 
think its unlikely that Admiral would then have  agreed to the car being sent to the main 
dealer. So I think  firm A was at fault.  Admirals responsible for firm As errors  - but not for the 
delays caused  by the main dealer. I think it did all it could to chase progress there, which  
was all it could do.
Admiral accepts that it should have been  firmer  with Miss C. By agreeing  that further tests 
should be done in January 2019, it raised  her expectations. She was further  inconvenienced 
from January 2019 onwards, when that could have been avoided.  So in my opinion,  it would 
be reasonable for Admiral to pay Miss C a further £250 for distress  and inconvenience.    
I dont think Admiral should have to pay to repair or replace the battery. The fault wasnt 
related to the accident or the repairs. And I dont think Miss C has shown what  further  
damage was done due to the car being  dormant  from January 2019  onwards. I think any 
deterioration in the car whilst it was with the main dealer was due to the main dealer not 
dealing with the diagnostic work in a timely manner.  
I asked the parties  to let me have their view of my provisional findings. Both Miss C and 
Admiral accepted them without further comment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties have accepted my provisional findings, theres no reason to depart from them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Miss C a further £250 for distress and inconvenience (£750  in total)  in 
addition to the other £395 it offered her initially.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2020.
Ref: DRN67746653Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6774665