K821x#15complaint
Ms T has complained about the payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy she took 
alongside a personal loan from Citifinancial Europe  Limited (Citi).
background
Ms T applied for a personal loan (account  number  ending 4752) with Citi in 2004. At the 
same time she took PPI. She borrowed more  to pay for the cost of the PPI. The policy was 
paid for upfront and is called a single  premium policy.
In the event of a successful claim if Ms T couldnt  work because of accident  or sickness the 
policy would have paid the loan repayments until she was able to return  to work. And if she 
lost her job it would  have paid the repayments for six months. It would also have repaid the 
loan in the event of her death.
Ms T complained to Citi she had been  mis-sold the policy. Citi didn't agree but it did offer to 
repay Ms T any commission  and profit  share it had received  on the PPI premiums which 
were above  50% of the cost, and which it hadnt  told her about.  It offered  £397.07  and I 
understand this has already been paid to Ms T. 
Ms T remained  unhappy with the outcome to her complaint.  One of our adjudicators  looked  
at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Citi didn't agree.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  Citi hadnt made the cost of 
the PPI clear  to Ms T. In particular, the information  about the interest  charged  on the cost of 
the borrowings  for the policy. 
The adjudicator said to Citi that if it wanted to make  an alternative redress  offer rather than 
full redress - to take account that a regular premium policy rather than a single premium 
policy could have been taken by Ms T - then that would be considered.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority, has said that under certain circumstances 
alternative redress can be offered. This is when a business considers that the consumer 
would have bought a regular premium policy instead of a single  premium  one. And the 
alternative redress would put the consumer in the position they would have been in if this 
had happened. 
Citi didn't respond  on this point. 
It maintained that the cost would have  been  made clear  on the application form, which  it said 
would have been completed  by Ms T. It hadnt  been able to give us the actual form 
completed by Ms T but had been able to give us sample documents that it says would have 
been used.
Ref: DRN63603062After looking at these,  I agree with what the adjudicator has said.  I appreciate the sample 
credit agreement, which is a sample  credit agreement from 2004,  does  refer to the cost of 
the optional insurance, but it doesnt  give a breakdown of the cost of interest  that would be 
added because it was a single premium policy. And it also it doesnt show  what the monthly  
or total cost of the PPI would be.
And while the insurance application form sample  we have been given does give more detail 
about the cost and interest, it post-dates the sale of the policy. Ms Ts loan was taken in 
2004, and the sample  insurance application  form Citi has provided is from 2006.  So I cant  
rely on this and I cant say how the cost of the policy was presented to Ms T at the time of 
the sale. The only information that Citi has provided from the time Ms T took out her loan is 
the sample credit agreement from 2004.  And as explained above  this doesnt set out the full 
costs clearly. This means  I cant fairly  say that Ms T was made aware of the costs.
It follows that I uphold  Ms Ts complaint.  
Ms T borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should  have  been  and 
she paid more than she should have each  month. So Ms T needs to get back the extra  she 
paid. 
So, Citi should:
Work  out and pay Ms T the difference  between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would  have  paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms T paid each month from when  she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Ms T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Citi can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Citi to take off tax from this interest. Citi must give Ms T a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. Ms T can claim back  the 
tax if she doesnt  pay tax.
Ref: DRN63603063my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Citifinancial Europe  Limited should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.  
If Citifinancial Europe Limited  has paid the redress it previously offered for the unfair  level of 
commission and profit share it received  but didn't tell Ms T about, then it can deduct that 
amount from the compensation that is payable to Ms T. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6360306