K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  did not refund her after 
she lost her money to a scammer.
background
On 5 June 2018, Mrs M sent a payment via online banking of £930 to a scammer for what  
she thought were flight tickets. She contacted Halifax on 8 June when she didnt receive a 
confirmation e-mail for the flights. 
The beneficiary bank  account was also with Halifax. It placed a block  on the beneficiary 
account on the same day that Mrs M contacted it. Unfortunately,  the funds were  removed 
from the account on the same day Mrs M made the transfer. Halifax informed Mrs M that as 
she authorised the payments and it followed her instructions, it correctly  sent the payment of 
£930 and wouldnt  be refunding this. Mrs M referred her complaint to our service.   
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and agreed it was reasonable for Halifax to follow 
Mrs Ms instruction to make  the transfer.  And she felt that Halifax had done  enough  to try 
and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
assessment, so the case has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Halifax are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
Ref: DRN62340812recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs M when  she transferred £930, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Firstly, Mrs M accepts that she made  the transfer  of £930 herself. This means that Halifax  
was obliged to follow Mrs Ms instruction. But there  are some situations in which  it should  
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer. And this is 
what Ive considered.
Ive thought about this carefully.  Halifax has provided the statements for Mrs Ms account for 
the period in question.  Looking  at these, I dont think the payment itself was particularly 
unusual or suspicious  in comparison to Mrs Ms normal  account  activity. By this, I mean  
there wasnt anything  remarkable about the payment in terms of either its value or payment 
type as Mrs M regularly made card and bill payments for similar or higher amounts. So, I 
think the fact that Halifaxs systems didnt flag the payment as suspicious was fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances.
Mrs M contacted Halifax on 8 June 2018  when she became aware that shed  been  the victim 
of a scam.  Halifax raised a scam complaint  and investigated the beneficiary account  on the 
same day. So, I think it acted quickly in trying  to recover Mrs Ms funds.  Unfortunately,  the 
funds were removed from the beneficiary account  on 5 June, before Mrs M made  Halifax  
aware of the scam.  
Mrs M has unfortunately been the victim  of a scam, and Im very sorry that shes lost this 
money. While  I appreciate this, I must consider Halifaxs actions.  After  carefully considering  
everything available to me, I think Halifaxs decision  not to refund Mrs M in this instance was 
fair and reasonable. It followed Mrs Ms instruction to make the transfer of £930, and I 
havent seen any reason  why it shouldnt have done  this. And I think it took sufficient steps to 
try and recover the funds  in a timely  manner  once it was notified of the scam. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN62340813Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6234081