K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc cancelled foreign  cheques  he had ordered  without  
explanation. He also complains Santander  will not let him open a bank account  for his 
grandson.
background
On 21 May 2018 Mr W ordered two Euro cheques by telephoning  his branch. This is 
something he said he had been able to do six months previously. Mr W said he wasnt told at 
the time this would not or could not be done.  Mr W called the bank in early June to chase the 
cheques. He said that after a number of lengthy  calls to and from the bank over three days  
Santander said it was unable to issue Euro cheques to Ireland. He complained  to the bank. 
Around the same time Mr W tried to open  a bank account for his grandson,  born in 2018,  but 
was unable to. So Mr W added this to his complaint. 
Santander apologised for not informing Mr W when  he first ordered the cheques that they 
would not be possible anymore. It initially awarded £15 compensation for the lengthy calls. It 
then awarded an additional  £75. It said its correspondent bank in Ireland would no longer 
provide a cheque  clearance facility. Santander suggested other ways Mr W could transfer 
funds to Ireland.  
With respect to the 123 Mini account for Mr Ws grandson Santander said it could not open 
an account for a child under the age of 13 without capturing parental responsibility. So it 
couldnt open a trustee  account unless the trustee had parental responsibility.  
Mr W brought his complaint to this service.  He wanted Santander to change its practice and 
act sensibly with regards to Euro currency cheques, and to remove parental  responsibility for 
savings accounts.  
The adjudicator thought  Santander had acted fairly. She was satisfied  that the withdrawal of 
the Euro cheques  was out of the banks control.  She also thought  that as per the terms and 
conditions Mr W was not eligible to open  the account for his grandson because he was not a 
parent or person  with legal responsibility. Mr W remained unhappy and asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr W but having  done so I wont be asking Santander to do anything 
further. 
Firstly Id like to address two points Mr W brought up about our role in his complaint in order  
to offer him some reassurance. He said he wasnt  convinced we could  get Santander to 
change its practices. He also questioned the impartiality of this service. My role is to look at 
the individual circumstances of this complaint impartially  and independently of the 
adjudicator, and determine if Santander  has done  anything wrong.  In doing so I must  take 
account of relevant laws and regulations  and determine  what  is fair and reasonable to both 
parties with respect  to the individual complaint circumstances only.  Its not my role to 
investigate the banks practices  nor is it my role to tell them  what  to do to change  them.  
Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.  
Ref: DRN62751032euro currency cheques
A cheque  is a written  document  to give one bank instructions  to another. In order  for a 
cheque from one bank  to be processed  by the other it relies on the second bank to provide a 
cheque clearance  service. In the case of Euro currency cheques Santander has said it can 
no longer issue  them  for some countries  and this includes Ireland. In a document  intended 
as an internal communication to staff it says:
Issuing a Euro cheque to Ireland is a service  that Santander UK have previously 
offered, however  our correspondent  bank in Ireland have notified us that they will no 
longer provide a draft issuance  facility  (cheque clearance facility.) As a consequence,  
we are having to withdraw the service  to our customers. The use of paper 
instruments (cheques)  to make cross-border payments is less secure, slower and 
more costly than transferring funds electronically
While I do appreciate Mr W has taken advantage of this service previously and the fact he 
can no longer do so with Santander is frustrating for him, I cant in fairness say Santander 
has done something wrong  by not issuing  them.  This is a process I dont  have the power to 
interfere with and the decision was made after Mr W ordered the previous cheques so he 
wasnt aware of it.
Mr W made a number  of lengthy calls to Santander to find out why it couldnt provide the 
cheques. And I can see when Mr W ordered them  he wasnt told he couldnt  get them. Then 
over the course  of the phone  calls the operators  didnt have a clear view themselves. I can 
also see from the contact  notes and correspondence that Santander was able to eventually 
explain why it couldnt issue cheques.  Regarding communication with customers about the 
change it said:
Due to the very low uptake of currency drafts by Santander customers,  the decision 
was taken not to write to all customers about this change. Instead we communicated 
the change to branches (where  most Retail customers go to have a draft generated,) 
and also our contact centres.  On our website we removed Ireland from the list of 
countries we can provide drafts to, and on online banking, we removed the option to 
select Ireland when requesting a draft payment.
I think this is a reasonable position  to take.  Santander awarded  Mr W a total of £90 as 
compensation. Ive read in the call notes  and in the correspondence  that Santander 
explained other ways Mr W could transfer the money to Ireland. I appreciate  Mr W has been 
frustrated by this issue.  Hes been  unable to take advantage of a service hes familiar with. 
Mr W is concerned  he is just a small person coming up against  a big business and that this 
issue may have something to do with the current political environment.  I understand Mr Ws 
strength of feeling  in this matter but I find that £90 for the inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable under these particular circumstances,  and Im satisfied Santander offered 
reasonable alternative services to transfer  money.  
123 Mini account
Mr W has told us that he has previously opened bank accounts for his two granddaughters 
and he wanted  to do the same for his grandson.  Hes upset that hes been prevented from 
doing so because he isnt eligible. He believes the banks reliance on General  Data  
Protection Regulations (GDPR) is a cover up for something  thats gone wrong. He feels he 
Ref: DRN62751033has a moral responsibility to look after his grandchildren. This is understandable and very 
generous so I can appreciate not being able to do so with his bank of choice is frustrating. 
But Im afraid I shall have to disappoint  him. 
Ive read the specific terms  about  the 123 Mini account concerning eligibility. It says:
For those under the age of 13 the account  must be opened by an eligible trustee  on 
behalf of a child (beneficiary). 
The trustee must be a UK resident aged 18 or over, have parental responsibility for 
the child and hold a Santander personal  current account. 
Unfortunately Mr W does  not have parental  responsibility so is ineligible. Although  Mr W has 
opened accounts for his granddaughters  unfortunately he has applied  to open an account for 
his grandson after the introduction into law of GDPR.  
GDPR is EU legislation,  replacing the Data Protection Act 1998, that protects  how peoples 
data is used and allows them more control over how organisations use their data. So it is law 
that Santander must comply with. I am unable to consider  whether  Santander is compliant 
with GDPR, that is the role of the Information  Commissioners office (ICO). But when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable I must take into account  relevant laws, rules and 
industry practice. GDPR  is relevant law. 
Santander has explained that since GDPR came into force a trust account  can only be 
opened by the legal  representative of the child. It may be helpful if I explain that when a bank 
opens an account for any individual it creates a data profile which  would be protected  by 
GDPR. When  that account  is for a child the bank is creating  a data profile  for that child and 
so must ensure  it is adhering to GDPR  as it relates to, for example, legal consent.  So while I 
am not deciding whether Santander has been compliant with GDPR  I consider Santanders  
explanation why Mr W cannot open  an account to be fair and reasonable and not a cover up 
for doing something wrong. 
If  Mr W has any concerns  about  Santanders  compliance with GDPR hes free to raise them  
with the ICO. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6275103