K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold an HSBC Plus Account by HSBC UK Bank 
Plc (HSBC).
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a joint fee free account with HSBC sometime before 2009.
They then upgraded to a joint HSBC Plus Account (HPA) in October  2009.
Mr and Mrs H say that HSBC mis-sold  the HPA to them. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagree  with that 
outcome so the case has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Mr and Mrs H say they only upgraded  to the joint HPA in October 2009 because they were  told 
by HSBC that if they needed phone assistance  they would only speak to contact centres 
based in the UK and not those based  overseas if they paid for the HPA.
Mr and Mrs H are clear  that they knew theyd  taken out the HPA. They say they did use some 
of the benefits  of the account  they held over the years. But they say they would never have 
taken out the HPA in the first place but for the problems theyd encountered in speaking to 
overseas call centres. They also say that they were  experiencing financial difficulties at the 
time of the sale.
So I will consider first if Mr and Mrs H knew they had a choice whether to take out the HPA in 
October 2009 or not and whether they chose to do so.
In my view I think they did. I say this because  Mr and Mrs H had previously had a fee free 
account with an overdraft. So I think its more likely than not they knew that fee free bank 
accounts with overdrafts were readily  available from HSBC and other financial institutions if 
they didnt want  to pay for an account. 
Next I will consider what HSBC was required to do when it sold the HPA to Mr and Mrs H.
HSBC says that it didnt  recommend the HPA or advise  Mr and Mrs H to take it, but Mr and 
Mrs H say it did. Ive decided  to look at this complaint as an advised sale as it is to Mr and Mrs 
Hs advantage  and doesnt  affect the outcome of my decision. So, HSBC needed to provide Mr 
and Mrs H with sufficient  information about  the HPA to make an informed choice. And in 
recommending the HPA,  it also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the HPA was a 
reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances.
Ref: DRN61707862The HPA contained  a range of benefits including  worldwide travel insurance,  roadside 
breakdown, preferential overdraft rates, preferential rates  on savings and fee free cash  
withdrawals abroad.  
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think  the HPA was suitable  for Mr 
and Mrs H. I say this because they regularly went on holiday abroad; they had two motor 
vehicles and could  use the breakdown assistance; and they had regularly run an overdraft 
and so could benefit from the better  overdraft  facility. Mr and Mrs H say they had alternative 
arrangements for some of those things.  But it wouldve been for them to end that and use 
their account  when they were ready.  
HSBC has provided  evidence that they used the breakdown cover  on two occasions  and 
benefitted from the overdraft facility for many years. And I can see nothing in their 
circumstances that would have stopped them using the benefits. Mr H has mentioned  a pre-
existing medical condition, but it is of a nature that I wouldve  expected the travel insurance 
to have covered  for free or for a small competitive additional premium.
So, in my view the HPA was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H and there was nothing that HSBC didnt 
tell them  that would  have put them off buying  it.
Ill now consider Mr and Mrs Hs specific complaint. They say that at the time of the sale they 
felt they were in financial difficulties  and they couldnt get the help they needed when  they 
spoke to an overseas  HSBC call centre. They say they were then told that if they upgraded 
to an HPA they would have access to a UK based  HSBC call centre. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  Firstly HSBC says there isnt any recording of the phone  call 
made in October  2009. As this was more than 10 years ago, in my view this is plausible, and 
not unusual or unreasonable. 
Secondly I dont have any evidence that Mr and Mrs H were in the kind of financial difficulties 
where I would  expect HSBC to have provided  special assistance  to them.  But I accept that 
Mr and Mrs H were unable to get the help they needed when they spoke to HSBCs 
overseas call centre. 
So the issue  Im considering is whether  HSBC  told Mr and Mrs H that they would get 
guaranteed access  to a UK based call centre  if they took out the HPA and whether this was 
the only reason  Mr and Mrs H did so. 
In my view, while I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Hs honest recollections, I think  its more  likely 
than not that this wasnt the case.  I say this because there is nothing in any of HSBCs 
documentation or records that suggests that this was part of the HPAs  offering. And as Ive 
said above I think the HPA was suitable for Mr and Mrs H so I think  they wouldve been 
interested in the HPAs benefits; and I think its more likely than not that theyd have gone 
ahead and taken  out the HPA even if the UK call centre access  wasnt  promised to them.
So, although  I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, in my view they knew they 
had a choice whether  to take out the HPA or not and they chose to do so. I think the HPA 
was suitable for them  and there was no information that Mr and Mrs H didnt receive from 
HSBC that would likely have put them off taking it out. So I dont think  Mr and Mrs H lost out 
as a result  of anything  HSBC may have done  wrong  when it sold them  the HPA.
Ref: DRN61707863my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6170786