K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Callcredit Consumer  Limited  (T/A Noddle) wont delete his details from 
its records. He is also unhappy that it continued  to send him monthly reports after he asked it 
not to.
background
Mr M said he used  Noddle  some  time ago as it was offering free credit reports. When Mr M 
joined Noddle he provided it with personal  data about himself including his phone number 
and email address.
When Mr M decided  to close his account he asked it to delete his phone  number and email  
address. He felt this data wasnt relevant to his credit file information. But he said Noddle 
told him it wont delete the personal  information  it holds  about him. Mr M doesnt  believe 
Noddle has a legitimate reason to hold on to this information and that, in doing so, its 
breaching data protection law. Mr M is also unhappy that hes continued to receive monthly 
reports because he says hes given  instructions  for these to stop.
In July 2018 Mr M told Noddle that he didnt want it to use information about him and that he 
wanted it deleted. He said he didnt  want Noddle  to share his information. But Noddle said it 
told Mr M that it stores information for 12 months from the date of account closure and that 
his credit file will still exist with it and other credit reference agencies. 
Our investigator who looked into this matter didnt recommend  this complaint should be 
upheld. They didnt  think  Noddle  had done  anything wrong because it was entitled  to retain 
Mr Ms personal data for 12 months after Mr M gave it instructions to close his account. And 
they said Mr Ms concerns  about data protection breaches couldnt be looked  at by our 
service. 
But Mr M was not satisfied with this outcome  and asked  for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ill address jurisdiction at the outset because Noddle has said it doesnt  think our service is 
able to deal with this complaint. But Im satisfied  it is. I say this because Noddle is a credit 
reference agency which provides credit references.  This is a regulated activity. And Mr M is 
able to bring a complaint to us because he was a customer of Noddle and it holds 
information relevant  to his financial standing.  
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is about Noddle retaining personal information  he gave when 
he became a member.  He feels it has made  an error in not deleting  his personal information, 
as hes asked it to do. And he says this is causing him distress.  My role here is to consider 
whether Noddle  has made an error in retaining  this personal data and whether its treated 
him fairly and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN65733002I appreciate that Mr M has said he feels theres  been a breach of data protection  and I can 
see that our investigators  already signposted  Mr M to the Information Commissioners  Office 
should he wish to pursue this issue  further. Our investigator was right to say the ICO is 
better placed than this service to look at an organisations  handling of personal  data because 
its not our role to decide whether a breach of data protection has taken place. So, I wont be 
commenting on this part of his complaint as this issue falls outside of our jurisdiction.
I recognise that Mr M is annoyed and feels frustrated about  this matter. But in this case  the 
evidence that Ive seen clearly indicates that Noddle  is entitled to retain the information it 
currently holds about Mr M. Ill explain why.
Noddle says Mr M asked  it to close his account on 6 July 2018.  But Mr M thinks  he did this 
over 12 months ago. Where there is a disagreement  about what  happened, as there is here,  
I have to base  my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened  in the 
circumstances, on balance of the evidence available. 
Ive given careful consideration to what is being said here.  But I havent seen any evidence 
from Mr M to show that he asked Noddle to close his account prior to July 2018. So, based 
on the evidence  Ive seen, I think its more likely than not, on balance, that Mr M asked 
Noddle to close his account in July 2018.  It follows that I think it closed Mr Ms account as 
soon as he asked  it to. 
Mr M asked  Noddle to delete information  it held about him. He believes that, because hes 
cancelled his subscription with Noddle,  it shouldve deleted  his details. And he doesnt think 
its reasonable for Noddle to keep his records after hes ended  his membership with it. 
Noddle says, in certain circumstances, a customer  can ask it to delete  their personal data. 
But it also says this wont apply to all data because it might have a good reason for needing 
to keep some of it. Here, it says its entitled to retain  Mr Ms personal  data in accordance  
with its privacy notice. And its explained that it stores  account information  for 12 months for 
purposes of investigating complaints, defending legal  claims  or responding to regulatory 
enquiries. So, it said this information wont  be deleted until July 2019 - 12 months  after Mr M 
asked it to close his account. I think the reasons why Noddle has said it needs to retain  
personal data for this period are valid and fair.
Ive looked at Noddles privacy notice, which is clearly presented on Noddles website. It can 
be seen before an individual becomes a member  and the website requires a customer 
signing up to Noddles services to tick a box confirming the notice has been read. So, I think  
Mr M agreed  to adhere to Noddles personal data retention policy when he subscribed to 
Noddle. And I dont  think Noddle  has done anything wrong or treated  Mr M unfairly in 
refusing to delete his personal  data as hes requested.
The final part of Mr Ms complaint is that he says Noddle has continued  to send him monthly 
reports after hes asked it not to. But Noddle said it hasnt  sent any communication  to Mr M 
after he closed his account. And Mr M hasnt provided any evidence  to rebut what  Noddle 
has said here. So, Im not persuaded that Noddle has done anything  wrong.  
I appreciate the reasons why Mr M brought this complaint to our service. But for the reasons 
given Im not persuaded Noddle had done  anything wrong here.  So, I cant fairly  uphold this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN65733003my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6573300