K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has unfairly  declined  his claim 
for jewellery  stolen in a burglary at his home,  and treated him disrespectfully.
background
Mr R made  a burglary claim for stolen jewellery  to Lloyds  in November 2016. The police 
attended and initially reported that there  was no evidence of a break-in or other evidence. 
Lloyds rejected Mr Rs claim because it thought it was false. It said his claim was unproven 
and he lacked credibility. Lloyds said the police had reported that there were no viable lines 
of enquiry, with no sign of forced entry, witnesses or forensic  evidence  to support that a 
break-in had occurred.  It said Mr R provided false information regarding his identity, the 
occupancy of his address  and the identity  of who provided the jewellery  receipts to its claim 
handlers.
Lloyds wrote to Mr R with questions about  his claim on several occasions but said he hadnt 
replied. It maintained its position that Mr R hadnt  proved that he had a claim.
Mr R subsequently  obtained further  information  from the police that indicated that a crime 
had occurred and there had been  a pattern of similar break-ins in Mr Rs area. In response 
Lloyds said it would  now consider his claim and it offered Mr R £150 compensation for not 
considering the new police  information sooner. 
Mr R is pleased that Lloyds will now consider his claim but said £150 compensation was too 
low. He said Lloyds  had taken too long and had said he was dishonest and embarrassed 
him to his family  and caused  him significant  distress.  He said £450 compensation would be 
about right.  He requested  an ombudsman  review his complaint.
The investigator acknowledged that Lloyds  will now consider Mr Rs claim and thought  it 
should consider  increasing the compensation it had offered to Mr R. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy  covers a number  of insured perils at his home, including theft. It is the 
policyholders responsibility to prove  that an insured  event has taken place  and that he has a 
claim. Until Mr R was able to obtain further  information from the police it doesnt  appear that 
he had shown that a theft had occurred. So, I dont think until that point it was unreasonable  
for Lloyds  to say that there wasnt  evidence to support that a theft took place.
Im pleased that Lloyds  has now agreed to reconsider Mr Rs claim and I hope it is able to do 
so promptly. If Mr R is unhappy  with the outcome of his claim he can of course  bring another  
complaint about  that to Lloyds and subsequently  to our service. 
Lloyds now accepts it should reasonably have made  enquiries with the police earlier, which  
would have caused it to consider Mr Rs claim.  It said this wouldnt have avoided  the other 
concerns it has about the claim  but it would have accepted thered been a theft.
Ref: DRN65315402I can see that Lloyds  would still have investigated the claim even with the police information. 
But I think this would  have  taken place more promptly and it would have lessened the long 
delays and consequently the embarrassment and disappointment that Mr R has described. I 
also think that Lloyds  caused a delay  once the further police  report was provided  to it. And I 
think Mr R caused a delay  in not responding to Lloyds enquiries about  his claim.
I have thought about the circumstances of Lloyds handling and decisions about  Mr Rs claim 
and I think it would be fair for it to pay him £250  compensation  for what he has suffered. 
Lloyds has agreed  to this payment of compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to reconsider Mr Rs claim and to pay him 
£250 compensation for the delays and poor service he has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6531540