K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Mr G complain  that Clydesdale Bank Plc refused  to transfer money  from their 
savings account  to their new account.
background
Mr L and Mr G held a Clydesdale current account and a linked savings account. They closed 
the current account and transferred it to a different  bank. But were unhappy that the money 
in their savings account wasnt  also transferred and the account closed .They  say as a result  
they couldnt access their money. Mr L says that caused him distress in sorting matters  out 
and left them short of money and would  like the money given back.
Clydesdale says the savings account  is linked to the current account and any withdrawals 
from the savings  account  can only be made into the linked account.  It says that is part of the 
accounts terms and conditions and the problem was caused  by Mr L and Mr G closing  their 
current account and leaving  the savings account  open. Clydesdale says it also explained 
that in a letter of 8 November 2018 before the current account  was closed. It says it initially 
asked both Mr L and Mr G to attend a branch  to close the savings account but later closed it 
and sent them a cheque for the balance.
Mr L and Mr G brought their complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. He thought 
Clydesdale hadnt  made a mistake  and had dealt fairly with the complaint. The adjudicator  
thought Clydesdale had acted in line with the account conditions  and had explained in its 
letter what  needed  to happen to the money in the savings account.
Mr L and Mr G dont accept that view and say there were other calls in which  Clydesdale 
said it wasnt possible to make a bank transfer or send them  a cheque and they would have 
to attend a branch. They also say they didnt receive the letter  of 8 November 2018 and 
Clydesdale shouldve checked if they received it. Mr L and Mr G say this was an online 
savings account  and there shouldnt have been  a requirement that they attend  a branch. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr L and Mr G will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr L and Mr Gs accounts which Im satisfied they 
wouldve agreed to when the accounts  were opened. I find that these were linked accounts 
and the terms and conditions of the accounts  make  clear that any withdrawals from the 
savings account  can only be made  to the linked current account. Im satisfied that the 
problem here was caused by Mr L and Mr G closing their current account before transferring 
the money from their savings account into it. I can also see that Clydesdale  wrote to Mr L 
and Mr G before the current account was closed to explain that and to advise them  to 
transfer the money from the savings account before the other account closed. So Im 
satisfied Clydesdale  hasnt made  a mistake  here and acted fairly by telling Mr L and Mr G 
what they needed to do with the money  in the savings account.
I appreciate Mr L says they didnt receive  the letter of 8 November 2018. But I cant  fairly 
hold Clydesdale  responsible for that as its not responsible for the delivery of mail. I dont 
think in those circumstances  Clydesdale should  have checked  that Mr L and Mr G had 
Ref: DRN64489122received it and in any event I wouldve  expected Mr L and Mr G to have been aware of the 
account terms and conditions.
I accept that Mr L and Mr G wouldve been  caused  some inconvenience in attending  a 
branch to close the savings account. And I accept that they spent some time on the phone to 
Clydesdale trying to find a solution.  But Im satisfied having listened to the calls between  the 
parties that Clydesdale  tried to find a solution  to the problem and fairly and reasonably  
agreed to send Mr L and Mr G a cheque  for their money rather than require them to attend a 
local branch. I dont think Clydesdale made a mistake by telling Mr L and Mr G initially that 
they would  have to attend a branch and couldnt transfer their money as Im satisfied that 
those were the account rules.
Overall Im satisfied Clydesdale has acted fairly and reasonably here and hasnt made a 
mistake. And I can see that Mr L and Mr G received their money within  a relatively short 
period of time after raising the problem with Clydesdale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6448912