K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy Unum  Ltd has declined further benefit under his permanent health  
insurance.
Mr G has brought his complaint through a representative, but for simplicity Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mr G personally.  
background
In 1987 Mr G took out permanent health  insurance  underwritten by Unum.  In the event Mr G 
became unable to work, by reason of sickness or injury, the policy  would provide a benefit. 
In 2017 Mr G was unable to work due to a blood  condition and he received chemotherapy 
treatment that finished  in July 2017. He made a claim on his policy that Unum  accepted  
because Mr G met their policy definition of incapacitated. He was paid the full benefit 
entitlement under the policy. 
In January 2018 Mr G returned to work on a part time basis.  Unum  said that to support a  
gradual return it continued to pay proportionate  benefits until the end of March.  This 
amounted to 50% of benefit  for February and 25% for March which was £487.50 in total. 
Unum also said it would review Mr Gs circumstances in February.  
During the February review Mr G said he was struggling with the part time hours  because  he 
felt fatigued and he was uncertain if hed be increasing to full time hours.  So Unum 
requested updated medical information  to review the claim. 
Unum said the medical evidence showed that since  Mr G had received chemotherapy his 
blood results were normal. And no new concerns  with his health. So it concluded there  
wasnt a medical illness  preventing Mr G to be unable  to return to full time hours. 
Mr G disagreed and said the evidence clearly  showed he was suffering from fatigue  which  
meant he was unable to work full time. So Unum should pay him the proportionate benefit 
under the rehabilitation  term of the policy. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think the medical evidence 
showed Mr G was suffering from an illness that prevented him returning to work. So she 
concluded Unum  had been  fair to decline further  benefit. 
Mr G disagreed. He said the rehabilitation proportionate benefit should  be paid because it is 
a bridge between  full incapacity and full fitness.  And it is designed to cover  partial  loss of 
income. He also said the GPs opinion about  the cause of his fatigue should  be given more 
weight. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67297102The relevant  rules say that Unum has a responsibility to handle claims promptly  and fairly. 
And it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So Ive carefully considered  if Unum  has 
treated Mr G fairly.   
Mr G has said he is unhappy that in February 2018 his benefit  was reduced to 50% and then 
25% in March before being stopped. But I can see that Unum told him this was happening  
and explained  why. And I think  it was fair to Unum to apply a proportionate benefit  at this 
stage because Mr G has said he was planning  to return to work gradually and was starting  
on a part time basis.  It was also reasonable for Unum  to then check in with Mr G during this 
period to see things  were  progressing.
Unum said it would review Mr G half way through his two month  phased  return  and if it 
wasnt going as anticipated it would request Mr Gs updated medical information. During the 
review Mr G said he was struggling with the part time hours because  he felt fatigued and he 
was uncertain if hed be increasing to full time hours.  Unum responded to this promptly  by 
requesting updated medical information  to reassess  the claim. 
Mr G said he thinks Unum should pay him the rehabilitation proportionate benefit  on an 
ongoing basis. Ive carefully considered this but I disagree. The terms of the policy  state the 
rehabilitation benefit can only be paid if Mr G isnt able to perform his own occupation on a 
part-time basis  because  of sickness or injury.  Its not in dispute that Mr G was in remission 
and by 2018 his blood counts were normal. And theres been  no other persuasive medical 
diagnosis which supports the level of fatigue Mr G has referred to. So I think  its fair for 
Unum to conclude Mr Gs inability to work full time isnt because  of his blood  condition. 
So Ive gone  on to think about whether Unum  shouldve  treated Mr Gs fatigue  as a sickness. 
But fatigue is usually  a symptom of a condition, rather than a condition  itself  unless, for 
example, there is a diagnosis of chronic  fatigue but that isnt the case  here. There  isnt any 
medical evidence  to suggest there was an investigation into Mr Gs fatigue  or what  was 
causing him to feel so tired. And I cant see any treatment was provided to him in relation to 
this. So Im not persuaded Unum shouldve  treated  Mr Gs fatigue symptoms  as a sickness 
in the circumstances of this case.  
As such I dont think Unum were unreasonable  to decline further  cover  after March  2018 
because there is nothing in the medical  evidence to show Mr G was suffering from sickness  
or injury from this point.  And the policy term states  benefit is only payable  if sickness or 
injury has resulted in the insured working on a part time basis.  
Mr G said his GPs opinion about  the cause of his fatigue should be given more weight. But 
the GP is not an expert  in blood conditions. And as Mr Gs bloods had returned to normal,  
Im less persuaded  by the GPs feelings  that continued fatigue at this level is a direct result  
of Mr Gs blood condition  and the treatment  he received for it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Ref: DRN67297103Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6729710